Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25811-SN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.8 MILLION
(US$46 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL
FOR A
PRIVATE INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
April 29, 2003
Private Sector Unit
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 24, 2003)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
CFA = US$1
US$ =
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACBF                 African Capacity Building Fund
ADEPME               Agence de Developpement et d'Encadrement
des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises
AGOA                 African Growth Opportunity Act
AFD                  Agence Fran,aise de Development
APIX                 Agence Nationale Charg&e de l'lnvestissement et des Grands Travaux
APL                  Adjustment Programmatic Loan
ART                  Autorite de Regulation des Telecommunications
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF                 Franc de la Communaute Financiere Africaine
CFR                  Country Framework Report
CPAR                 Country Procurement Assessment Review
EIB                  European Investment Bank
EMP                  Environmental Monitoring Plan
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
EU                   European Union
FAA                  Federal Aviation Administration
FIAS                 Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FMS                  Financial Management Systems
FNR                  Fonds National de Retraite
FSAP                 Financial Sector Assessment Report
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GRCC                 Groupe de Reflexion pour la Compgtitivite et la Croissance
ICT                  Information and Communication Technologies
IDA                  International Development Association
IFC                 International Finance Corporation
IPRES                Institution de Prevoyance Retraite du Senegal
IT                  Information Technology
MDGs                Millennium Development Goals
MIGA                Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MSME                Micro Small and Medium Enterprise
NEPAD               Africa-wide Infrastructure Initiative
NPV                 Net Present Value
PCD                 Project Concept Document
PIM                  Project Implementation Manual
PIP                  Project Implementation Plan
PMU                 Project Management Unit
PSAC                Private Sector Adjustment Credit



PSD                 Private Sector Development
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
PRSP                Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SEP                 Sector Expense Program
SMiEs               Small and Medium-size Enterprises
SODIDA              Soci6tg du Domaine Industriel de Dakar
SONACOS             Societ Nationale des Oleagineux du S&n6gal
SSA                 Sub-Saharan Africa
TSP                 Transport Sector Project
UEF                 Universal Access Fund
UEMOA               Union Economique et Monetaire des Etats de l 'Afrique de l 'Ouest
(West Africa Economic and Monetary Union)
UTNACOIS            Union Nationale des Commer,ants et Industriels du Senegal
UNIDO               United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UPE                 Unite de Politique Economique
USAID               United States Agency for International Development
WBI                 World Bank Institute
WTO                 World Trade Organization
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  John McIntire
Sector Manager/Director:  Demba Ba
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Iradj A. Alikhani






SENEGAL
PRIVATE INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                       2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices              11
C. Project Description Sunmuary
1. Project components                                                              14
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                   16
3. Benefits and target population                                                   17
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    18
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies   22
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                             23
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                27
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     27
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        27
2. Financial                                                                       28
3. Technical                                                                       28
4. Institutional                                                                   28
5. Environmental                                                                   30
6. Social                                                                          30
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              31
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  32
2. Critical risks                                                                  32



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   34
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          34
2. Other                                                                            35
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        35
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       36
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        37
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  48
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       63
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         64
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  67
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  68
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       74
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   77
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 79
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                80
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          82
Annex 11: The Tourism Sector and Development Prospects                                 84
Annex 12: Pension Reform - Issue and Options                                           89
Annex 13: Letter of Sector Policy                                                      94
MAP(S)
25934



SENEGAL
Private Investment Promotion Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTPS
Date: April 29, 2003                             Team Leader: Iradj A. Alikhani
Sector Manager/Director: Demba Ba                 Sector(s): General industry and trade sector (50%),
Country Manager/Director: John McIntire           Payment systems, securities clearance and settlement
Project ID: P051609                              (20%), Telecommunications (15%), Postal services (15%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Regulation and competition policy (P), Export
development and competitiveness (P), Other economic
management (S), Legal institutions for a market economy
(S), Tax policy and administration (S)
[ Loan      [X] Credit    [ Grant     [ Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $46.0
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%                            Service charge: 0.75%
EFina-a97Lans(US$--1!-uc        --,s'       ^7;-2     -.- Loc  - -.a       gn- lr   s~t ~>.
BORROWER                                                       6.30           1.40         7.70
IDA                                                           17.80          28.20        46.00
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                             3.00           0.00          3.00
Total:                                                        27.10          29.60         56.70
Borrower: GOVT. OF SENEGAL
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
APIX
Address: 52-54 rue Mohammed V. BP 430 Dakar. Senegal
Contact Person: Mime. Aminata Niane, Directeur G6n6ral
Tel: 221-849-0555           Fax: 221-823-9489           Email: apix@sentoo.sn
Other Agency(ies):
UPE
Contact Person: Mr. Aliou Faye
Tel: 221-823-3427           Fax:            Email: upemefp@telecomplus.sn
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
->-: :Fv . - .7 )                                   ;2008 ---20i-.
Annual      4.00     10.00      12.00     10.00       7.00      3.00
Cumulative     4.00      14.00     26.00     36.00      43.00     46.00
Project Implementation period: 7/1/03 to 6/30/08
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2003 Expected closing date: 12/31/2008



A. Project DeveNopment Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to help create the conditions to stimulate a sustained increase in private
investment in Senegal through an improved investment climate, greater private participation in economic
activities, and policy and sector reform. The project is thus expected to make important incremental
contributions towards Senegal attaining the 8 percent GDP growth called for in the Govemment's
poverty alleviation program.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The principal indicators selected for measuring progress towards the project development objective are
summarized below (targets are for project closing date unless indicated otherwise):
o A sector expenditure program for justice has been prepared.
o Anti-money laundering legislation is promulgated.
O Trademark legislation, including intellectual property rights, is adopted.
O Administrative barriers in the areas of: (i) general entry and operations requirements (taken together)
are improved so that, compared to the 2002 baseline, the number of days needed to fulfill the
requirements are reduced by 20 percent, and (ii) land access for commercial purposes are removed so
that, compared to the 2002 baseline, the number of days needed to process land transactions are
reduced by 30 percent by the project's mid-term review and by a further 25 percent by the end of the
project.
o The marginal effective tax rate for industry, based on FIAS report 2001 methodology, is reduced to
35 percent by mid-term review and to 25 percent by the end of the project.
o   The physical inspection of containers by Customs is limited to a maximum of 20 percent of all
containers passing through Customs.
o APIX's investment promotion activities would have resulted in 4,000 permanent new jobs in the
formal sector by mid-term review and 10,000 by the end of the project.
o For the Matching-Grant scheme: (i) the increase in turnover sales for beneficiaries over the increase
in manufacturing output is greater than 1.10, and (ii) at least 3,000 permanent jobs have been created.
O The telecommunications sector strategy has been implemented, and the teledensity in the territory of
the Borrower has doubled.
o By the end of the project (i) restructuring of the pension schemes has been completed and adequate
measures have been adopted to ensure their financial sustainability (as measured by parametric
reforms) by mid-term review , and (ii) systemic reforms and new corporate governance is in place.
o   By December 31, 2006: (i) the postal corporation has been restructured and financial services
spun-off into a separate subsidiary, and (ii) both structures achieve financial equilibrium (inclusive of
government remuneration for public service delivery).
- 2-



* By December 31, 2006: (i) a tourism sector strategy has been formulated and adopted with four
master plans and 12 studies completed and their results disseminated, and (ii) an investor conference
has taken place.
* A legislative framework has been put in place to strengthen the rights of musicians and artists;
royalties are paid to musicians; and musical archives are in place. Feasibility studies for e-commerce
(electronic commerce) have been completed
*   Divestiture of SONACOS has been completed and policy distortions in the edible oil sub-sector have
been reduced or eliminated, including consumption surcharges and government subsidies.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 25498-SN Date of latest CAS discussion: April 17, 2003
A proposed private sector development operation of US$35 million for FY99 had been included in the
base case scenario of the CAS (report number 17269-SN) discussed by the Board on December 29, 1997.
The two pillars of this CAS were social sustainability and more rapid and sustained growth. PSD in
general and-the proposed operation in particular were seen as key contributors to attaining the CAS'
growth objectives. The Government and other stakeholders subsequently requested that the preparation
of the operation be delayed so that they could provide inputs into the project design, on the basis of a
private sector development strategy they had developed and first discussed in May 1998. Following the
change in government in 1999, the formulation of the program was suspended and project preparation
was slowed down. Project preparation was reimtiated in 2000. The present project is the result of the
dialogue with stakeholders that has taken place for the past two years which, as described in section D,
has led to an expansion of its scope and an increase in the Credit amount.
On December 22, 2002, the World Bank Board considered a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP,
Report 25127-SN). The overall goal of the PRSP is to reduce poverty by more than half between 2001
and 2015. This objective is quite ambitious. Reaching it would require a significant and sustained
acceleration of growth, as well as a strong shift in the focus of public services in favor of the poor, and
the successful implementation of actions to improve the growth effects of new investments and the
efficacy of services for the poor. As explained below the Government's growth strategy and related
Bank support, especially through the present project, provide the vision and vehicles towards reaching
these objectives and outcomes.
The current CAS covering FY03-05 was discussed by the Board on April 17, 2003. It proposes a
strategic and selective approach that emphasizes World Bank support to the growth pillar of the CAS.
The proposed Private Investment Promotion operation is programmed under the low case CAS scenario.
Reflecting the importance of the private sector in poverty alleviation, about 25 percent of IDA resources
in the base case scenario of the CAS are allocated to the present investment operation and a
complementary project, the Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC). The PSAC would support key
policy reforms in the areas of tax, edible oil, pensions and post office reforms, while at the same time
providing budget support to alleviate the incremental fiscal impact of these reforms. Actions supported
under these projects will help Senegal meet investment climate-related CAS indicators and triggers for
the higher case lending scenarios. These two operations therefore reduce the risk that CAS growth
objectives and related targets are not met.
-3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Senegal has sustained macroeconomic stabilization since 1994 and achieved a steady 5 percent GDP
growth per annum (p.a.) for the past five years. This good perforrmance is yet to be reflected in
significant progress towards achieving sustainable development and poverty reduction targets embodied
in the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Shortcomings are reflected in social sector outcomes,
notably education, but also in the stagnation of formal sector employment at around 200,000 jobs.
Recent economic growth has a narrow base and is largely attributable to construction and other arguably
non-sustainable factors. Growth has also yielded disappointing results in terms of income distribution.
Further challenges lie ahead.  At present, the formal sector provides no net new employment
opportunities. The potential for expansion of agriculture and fisheries is limited. The former is affected
by insufficient water in the north and low level intemal conflict in the south of the country. Declining
fish stocks have brought fisheries on the verge of crisis. In Senegal today about 200,000 new job seekers
enter the labor market each year. Many end up underemployed or engage in subsistence jobs.
Furthermore, the hope of a better life and better basic social services in urban areas encourage
rural-urban migration; about 50 percent of the population of Senegal live in urban areas, notably Dakar,
which is above the Sub-Saharan (SSA) average of about 32 percent. This migration in tum creates social
and economic pressures in towns that need to be addressed.
The challenges of the prevailing situation have been recognized by the Govemment and other Senegalese
stakeholders. Most now accept that, depending on government policies and programs, the economy
could stagnate and achievements to date erode; there could be economic growth without fundamentally
changing the social and economic structure of the country; or there could be broad-based economic
growth, better income distribution, and greater social stability. Senegal has a number of advantages over
other countries in SSA that, once exploited, would enable the high case scenario to materialize. These
advantages include the country's geographical location and its relatively well organized private sector.
The potential may be achieved if key requirements are met. These would include strong political will,
actions underpinned by sound technical analysis, and adequate institutional capacity. Below is a detailed
vision shared by Government, the private sector and other stakeholders of how the Senegalese paradox
may be overcome and how, by the end of the present decade, the country can be put on a path of
sustained high growth and prosperity. The present project would help implement important aspects of
this vision not addressed elsewhere.
During the late 1990s, the Government decided to prepare a private sector development strategy. To this
end, with the support of the World Bank and other donors, a consultation process was launched with all
stakeholders. In mid-1999, a draft strategy was presented to and endorsed by all stakeholders. In
parallel, detailed diagnostic work was undertaken with the technical collaboration of the World Bank.
The resulting output included studies of the investment climate (in collaboration with FIAS),
infrastructure reform (Country Framework Report), pensions, trade policy (Integrated Framework) and
macroeconomic and poverty issues (Country Economic Memorandum). The strategy and these studies
were key inputs to the PRSP and form the basis of the present project. The PRSP vision for Senegal for
the first two decades of the twenty-first century is based on two axis of equity and wealth creation. On
the equity side, the main goal is to achieve the MDG quantitative targets in health and education.
Beyond the quantitative goals lie qualitative output and outcome objectives regarding education and
health of the population, which would be reflected in a workforce capable of contributing to economic
development. The wealth creation pillar strategy, under a high performance scenario, would be based on
the following:
o   Continued macroeconomic stability and much improved public expenditures, with respect to
transparency, the allocation process and outcomes.
-4 -



*   Steady private sector-based growth of 8-10 percent p.a. resulting in increased formal sector
employment.
*   Growth to be sustained by appropriate policies and development of certain sectors, such as: (a)
construction; (b) extractive industries (petroleum, gold, iron ore etc); (c) tourism; (d) export-oriented
manufacturing, especially garments, in part stimulated by AGOA; (e) trade services sectors, in
particular based on Senegal (especially the Dakar region) becoming a Gateway to West-Africa; (f)
information technology and related value added services; and (g) SMEs, especially those involved in
subcontracting activities, services, agribusiness, and artisanal activities.
* Appropriate solutions having been put in place in Casamance, a region with internal conflicts, which
would permit improvements in the welfare of the people and higher agriculture growth in the region.
*   Appropriate balance struck between the environmental impact and growth, through improved
management of fisheries, and appropriate tourism and industrial development.
Key reforms are either underway or are in the process of being formulated. These initiatives are
supported by the World Bank primarily through the ongoing second Transport Sector Project (TSP2, Cr.
2366), the present project, the proposed Private Sector Adjustment Credit, and the proposed Energy
Sector Reform Project. The reforms, clustered around the principal themes developed below, address
two complementary issues. First, there are a number of policy and institutional brakes that contribute to
the underperfornance of the economy. A second set of measures generally focus on promoting certain
subsectors that provide good entry points for private sector development. In practice, the individual
reforms being envisaged by the Government incorporate an element of both themes and also reinforce
one-another. It would be possible to attain the overall goals in Senegal if the implementation in one area
is deficient. Nevertheless a multifaceted approach is essential to capture some of the critical reforms.
For instance, stakeholders recognize that failure to adequately address certain areas, such as the
investment climate and electricity reform, would gravely undermine the program, irrespective of how
much progress is achieved elsewhere.
Infrastructure Development
The importance of infrastructure development is recognized under the Africa-wide infrastructure
initiative (NEPAD) which makes it one of its pillars. While telecommunications reform tends to offer the
quickest payoff, the medium- to long-term impact of attracting private investment in other infrastructure
sectors would be similar. The relative success to date of telecommunication sector reform is indicative of
how private participation in infrastructure can serve as an engine of economic growth, and as an essential
complement of efforts to improve social sector outcomes. The value added of this sector has risen from 2
to 4 percent of GDP within five years, and the sector has contributed one percentage point to the annual
GDP growth.
The greatest payoff related to an infrastructure reform is likely to be in the energy sector. According to a
recently-completed Country Framework Report (CFR), should the difficulties experienced in electricity
up to 2002 be removed, annual GDP growth would increase on a sustained basis by about one percent per
annum. The secondary effects as access to electricity improves in rural and peri-urban areas, would
include improved social services and the development of new economic activities, and thus a better
income distribution. Electricity supply in Senegal has improved with Manatali, the regional power
generation facility, coming on line. This has helped alleviate some of the problems, but Government,
with the Bank's help, still intends to pursue sector reform and develop rural access.
- 5 -



Another important reform relates to the proposed privatization of the Dakar-Bamako railway link. It is
estimated that once the related reforms are completed and the required investments made, the time taken
for transport of goods and passengers between the two cities would be reduced by 50 to 70 percent. This,
together with port reforms discussed below, would be a key first step towards the Dakar region becoming
a gateway to other West-African economies. In this context, not only would the Senegalese economy in
general and mining activities in particular benefit, but so would other countries in the sub-region. These
countries would gain access to alternative supply chains and benefit from reduced transport costs through
efficiency gains, competition and logistical advantages. The recent award of the concession contract of
the Dakar-Bamako line is an important first step towards this goal.
The port of Dakar is another important node within the infrastructure supply chain. Recent reforms have
led to productivity gains. Together with the proposed customs and other reforms, these should lead to a
significant increase in the volume of business faced by the port. In this context, the proposed
development of the container terminal constitutes a key investment that would help sustain future
economic growth.
Finally, even though the sector has expanded well and teledensity in Senegal is among the highest in
Sub-Saharan Africa, the potential of the telecommunications sector is yet to be fully exploited. The
following reforms, which should be implemented by the mid 2000s, should lead to a further doubling in
teledensity, lower telecommunications costs, and private sector growth, especially in the area of
information technology (IT):
o Reduction in the cost of services through enhanced competition. This would be achieved through the
elimination of exclusivity rights and increased competition through the licensing of a new operator.
o Development of value-added and IT services. This would include tapping the potential in terms of
band-width and capacity provided by the sub-marine optical cable linking Europe to Southern Africa,
a branch of which lands in Dakar.
o Expanding rural access to the point where each person in Senegal is within a 5 kmn of a public phone.
To ensure that the above reforms yield the intended results and to pave the way for the next phase of
infrastructure development described later in the context of the medium- to long-term program,
complementary factors need to be integrated in the infrastructure reforms. These are summarized below.
o Regulation. As private participation in the infrastructure sector (utilities, as well as transport)
expands, the importance of economic and technical regulation, traditionally fulfilled by public
utilities and/or line ministries, come to the forefront of the policy dialogue. Experience has shown
that independent regulators need to be established and the capacity of such regulators strengthened.
The Government has thus decided to adopt the necessary legislation for the establishment of
regulatory agencies in key sectors (notably energy and telecommunications) and to ensure
cross-sectoral consistency in regulation. These regulation agencies remain weak, even though thanks
to recent collaboration with WBI, Dakar is emerging as a regional center for training of regulators
and national know-how in this area is developing rapidly. Nevertheless, in practice the agencies are
not yet fully independent and this may deter competition and greater private participation in the
sector.
-6 -



*   Transparency, competition and efficiency. Experience in Senegal has brought out the trade-offs
between attracting private participation in infrastructure as quickly as possible, satisfying political
objectives while ensuring that the process is transparent, technically sound and ensures competition.
The right balance is yet to be found and often expediency has been more important than other factors,
as demonstrated by the recent failed experiences in the electricity and transport sectors. The ongoing
process in the telecommunications and water sectors are indicative of how a better balance can be
struck.
Improvement of the Investment Climate
International experience points to the importance of improving the investment climate as part of the
private sector-led growth strategy. The concept of investment climate relates to rules and regulations
pertaining to the entry and operations of private firms and to questions that affect the competitiveness of
the economy, such as a level playing field, execution of contracts and property right enforcement. This
broad concept encompasses diverse areas such as the trade policy regime, administrative barriers,
taxation, the role of the State as an economic operator, the legal environment of enterprises. - The
available diagnostic of the Senegalese investment climate shows that it does not compare favorably with
international comparators (Annex 2 includes more details). Current circumstances seem favorable for
substantial renewed private investment in Senegal (tourism potential, opportunities related to AGOA,
etc.). The implementation of the reforms described below would thus help capture this potential.
The general trade policy regime in Senegal is open and tariffs set at the regional level of UEMOA in
theory conform to best practice. In practice, surcharges and non-tariff barriers continue to affect key
products, including edible oil, flour, sugar, and tomatoes. The annual deadweight loss associated with
this protection, excluding the edible oil sector, has been estimated at around one percent of GDP. The
cascading nature of tariffs are also a source of anti-export bias for the textile and food industries.
Finally, complex rules of origin slow down intra-llEMOA trade. Exports remain relatively low (five
year average around 17 percent of GDP) and are concentrated in a few products facing unfavorable terms
of trade. The most dynamic part of exports relates to goods exported to the sub-region. An action plan
that would improve the trade policy regime by addressing existing shortcomings has been presented in
the context of the Integrated Framework Report and is expected to be implemented in the next few years.
Furthermore, a trade facilitation program is being implemented to help customs procedures converge
towards ISO 9000 compatibility. This program would have an important favorable impact on trade and
supply chains.
The administrative barriers that private investors face when establishing and operating a business in
Senegal are multiple: (a) general entry approvals; (b) access to land, site development, and connection to
utilities; and (c) operational requirements. Reforms undertaken during the past three years have led to
improvements in the first and third areas. However, fulfilling the procedures to access land and to
obtain building permits has become lengthier. Furthermore, few legislative and administrative reforms
have been implemented in regulations dealing with certain sectors such as tourism, mining, and fisheries.
As a result, existing enterprises and vested interests in the public administration have benefited from
de-facto protection. The government strategy in this area calls for continued administrative and
regulatory reforms and general improvements in public/private interface, with the objective that key
indicators rank among the best in SSA, and favorably compare with the rest of the world. The reforms
aim to an overall reduction in barriers; a major emphasis will be put on the land issue, partly through
improvements in information and partly through the introduction of market-based mechanisms for public
land allocation. A specific pilot involving auctioning existing land is envisaged in Dakar. Once proven
successful, this approach could be scaled up: the success of this experience will be key to subsequent
- 7 -



initiatives mentioned under the medium- to long-term strategy involving land development for tourism
and industry. Liberalization of private land transactions would also improve the functioning of the
market. Other areas of focus would include overhaul of labor laws (a study of which is currently under
way in the context of the Country Economic Memorandum) and special economic regimes, a
cross-cutting issue related not only to regulations, but also to tax reform, labor, financial sector and trade
policies, etc.
A recent diagnostic of the tax system reveals that investment was deterred by excessively high tax rates
combined with a multitude of taxes and/or user fees. These have resulted in the most complex tax regime
in the sub-region. The tax-related administrative barriers and complexity of the tax regime contribute to
a system that lacks transparency and encourages rent seeking. Furthermore, the cost of administering
small taxes may exceed what is transferred to the treasury, and user fees are often not utilized effectively
or for the purpose they were intended. To encourage private investments, the Government has, over
time, implemented a number of overlapping exemption regimes. These regimes not only further
complicate the tax system, but also result in an uneven playing field for private firms. Government is in
the process of identifying a revenue neutral tax reform package encompassing income tax reform,
including the reduction of top rates and the elimination of minor taxes, and the elimination of
exemptions. Furthermore, improved tax administration would help broaden the tax base. Finally, key
user fees, including the wage levy and the tourism tax, would be revised so that revenues collected are
utilized for the purposes intended (vocational training and tourism development in the aforementioned
cases). In the case of the wage levy, a decrease in the rate from 4.5 percent to 3 percent will also be
considered so as to support greater labor competitiveness.
Another aspect of the investment climate concerns the legal and judickdframework. The Government's
strategy calls for a long-term capacity-building program that would be implemented through a sector
expenditure program, based on qualitative and quantitative targets, financed by the national budget. The
objectives of this program would include improved performance of commercial courts, accelerated
processing of cases and availing judgments to the general public to enhance consistency and
transparency. This program would also expand access to courts and thus greater empowerment of the
poor, and thus contribute substantially to the equity pillar of the PRSP. In the short- to medium-term,
more focused actions would be undertaken, including improving intellectual property rights,
implementing anti-money-laundering rules, and encouraging arbitration.
Insttutional capacity building is an integral part of, and a cross-cutting theme, in the investment climate
and other project components. However, as recognized by Senegal's private sector development strategy,
in some instances warrants specific focus. To this effect, the strategy calls for the establishment of a
handful of independent agencies with lead responsibility in the areas of investment, small and medium
enterprises, export and tourism promotion, norms and standards, etc. Most of these agencies have been
established and are being financed through user fees, the public budget and/or donor. In the near-term,
given the need for selectivity and achieving results, the main emphasis is being given to the development
of the investment promotion and infrastructure agency, APIX.
Policy and Sub-Sector Reform
Past studies have helped stakeholders in Senegal identify subsector reforns that would: (i) directly
stimulate growth and development in areas where Senegal benefits from untapped potential once the
appropriate stimulus is provided; (ii) reinforce the ability of the private sector to operate effectively and
competitively; and (iii) free-up public and private resources, which would be available to fund pro-poor
private initiatives and, indirectly, finance private investment. Many of the reforms are supported under
the present project.
-8 -



There are currently two pension plans operating in Senegal. One (FNR) covers the majority of civil
servants.  The second scheme (IPRES) aims to cover private-sector salaried workers, although
approximately one sixth of the public sector employees are also covered. Unfunded liabilities of FNR
exceed 20 percent of GDP and expenditures under the plan will represent an increasing fiscal burden in
the coming decades. Both systems are essentially run on a pay-as-you-go basis, although there is a small
liquidity reserve. In both cases, the number of contributors to beneficiaries is low and the schemes are
unsustainable. The Government has assigned priority to pension reform, recognizing the need to: (a)
move towards a more secure, sustainable and modern retirement-income system; (b) alleviate a medium-
long-term macroeconomic/fiscal risk; and (c) make better use of accumulated term resources, part of
which could fund private sector investment. In considering policy alternatives, the Government is
seeking to provide a viable option to new civil servants through changes to IPRES, a scheme that has lost
credibility over the last decade.
In the next five years, the IPRES reforms would cover the following areas, which would make Senegal
one of the leaders of pension reform in SSA: (i) setting the value of benefits and eligibility conditions in
a transparent and predictable manner; (ii) bringing the governance of the scheme and its reserves to
international best practice standards; (iii) clearing arrears from public enterprises; (iv) gradually merging
the civil servants scheme with IPRES; and (v) introducing a privately-managed and funded component.
The new scheme would help diversify workers' risks and provide an effective intermediary for what may
develop into an important source of long-term savings for Senegal. Such a system would also be
designed so as to allow voluntary private pension savings to develop in the long term using the existing
infrastructure of the mandated scheme. This would provide a foundation for creative mechanisms to
encourage expansion of formal sector pension provision over time.
The post office in Senegal, the historical operator in the sector, plays an important economic and social
role in the country. This role encompasses delivery of domestic mail as well as the provision of financial
services (payment systems and savings books). The international express mail is open to competition and
several private operators are present in this market segment. The post office's legal status is that of an
autonomous public corporation, but it has not achieved financial autonomy (deficit was approximately
US$6.6 million in 2000). By regional standards, the postal network is fairly well developed, but overall
productivity is low. With respect to postal financial services, the main problems have been lack of
independence, poor corporate governance and inadequate financial controls that over the past years have
resulted in a mounting stock of accumulated liabilities, estimated at about CFAF 17 billions for the postal
checks and CFAF 4 billion for the savings bank (over US$30 million at the current exchange rate).
The thrust of sector reform will be to increase access by the poor to postal and related financial services,
and reduce the sector's burden on the government budget. To achieve this goal, the Government intends
to put in place a transparent, competitive sector environment through the establishment of an appropriate
regulatory framework, and to ensure that universal service and sustainability objectives are attained by
improving the performance of the postal sector. With respect to the postal operator, priority will be given
to implementing the corporate strategy and related business plan for the period 2003-2007, and financial
restructuring of the corporation. The sustainability of these reforms depends on the definition of the
operator's investment plan and related financing strategy, and the establishment of a subsidiary for postal
financial services which is distinct from postal activities, to allow autonomous management and
improved supervision. Once these reforms have been implemented, it is expected that the post office will
become more effective in mobilizing rural savings that could be recycled into the rural economy through
appropriate micro-finance intermediaries.
9-



The Government is promoting tourism as a priority sector, which has considerable potential as a source
of growth, diversification, economic recovery and poverty reduction. Tourism currently generates about
US$150 million in revenue from about 500,000 visitors. The Government believes that once the strategy
described below is implemented, within about 10 years revenues from about 1.5 million tourists would
increase to about US$500 million. In parallel, the Government is anxious to ensure that there are strong
linkages between tourism and other sectors. It recognizes the need to preserve its major tourist
attractions, including its coastal zones, sea, wildlife, conservation areas and historical and cultural
heritage. The development of the sector will be achieved through a three-pronged approach involving:
(a) institutional capacity building and development of an enabling framework that would include
preserving cultural assets and strengthening intellectual property rights to protect and help in the
development of Senegalese music industry; (b) formulation of master-plans for the development of new
sites through appropriate private-public approaches that also strengthen environmental management of
resources; and (c) in the medium- to long-term, the development of new tourism infrastructure in up to
four promising sites.
In 2000, agriculture contributed to 21 percent of exports and 17 percent of GDP, and employed about 70
percent of the country's labor force. Senegal's agriculture potential is limited by the fertility of its land
and insufficient rainfall. This largely limits the sector's development to high value added crops in
irrigated perimeters, including export-oriented horticulture, fresh fruits and cotton. Because of water
availability, the area of Casamance has agnculture potential, which is limited by internal conflicts in the
region. A certain amount of agro-processing is possible in Senegal, which is being encouraged through
the development of required infrastructure, and indirectly through the edible oil (mainly groundnut)
subsector reform, discussed below. Once peace returns to the Casamance region and economic activities
recover, the agriculture sector could grow as fast as the rest of the economy. A further boost to rural
development would be provided by farmers being given ownership of lands they cultivate. While full
fledged land reform would require a political and social consensus that is not yet attainable, pilot
schemes would be conducted in areas where local communities are receptive. Once successful, these
schemes could be progressively scaled up. Furthermore, transactions involving private land would be
deregulated.
The importance of the edible oil sector in Senegal is reflected by the fact that about one-third of the
Senegalese population directly or indirectly derive part of their livelihood from the groundnut secior.
The overall liberalization efforts pursued by the Government in the 1990s, and more recently in 2001
with the divestiture of the seeds distribution subsidiary of the monopolistic groundnut processing public
enterprise (SONACOS), have encouraged efficiency gains. Nevertheless, as reflected by two failed
privatization attempts in the latter half of the 1990s, many sector policy issues remain unresolved and
significant distortions prevail. The monopolistic processing activity (peanut oil) is protected through a
complex system of trade barriers. The cost of this protection, a regressive tax on edible oil products that
tends to affect the poor disproportionately, has been estimated at around CFAF 25 billion p.a., (about
US$3 per capita). In part due to distorted incentives, there has been little upstream or downstream
diversification.  Consequently marginal farmers, including some with more economically viable
alternatives, have continued to produce groundnut. The banking sector is significantly exposed to the
sector through the financing of the campaign. The banks are protected from excessive risk through a
de-facto government guarantee, subsidized lines of credit and donor-funded guarantee funds through
local financial intermediaries. As a result, the Government had to cover an overall sector deficit of about
CFAF 70 billion (US$100 million), accumulated during 2000 and 2001 (about 2 percent of GDP). Given
the fiscal constraints faced by Government, public financing of the sector cannot be sustained without
undermining other priority expenditures and poverty alleviation programs. To address these issues,
government strategy calls for: (i) elimination of trade policy protection and other regulatory and
- 10 -



financial distortions; (ii) divestiture of SONACOS; (iii) complementary sector reforms, involving support
to the diversification of production in groundnut producing areas; and (iv) clearance of accumulated
liabilities through a one-time financial restructuring of the sector.
The fisheries sector is the leading export sector (38 percent of total exports). The sector faces an
incipient crisis due to severe over-fishing and depletion of fish stock, and drastic measures are needed to
preserve the sector. The reform strategy would be based on limiting access to fisheries and reduced
fishing. To minimize the social and economic impact of the reforms, an agreement could be reached with
neighboring countries, especially Guinea-Bissau with which a protocol has already been signed, whereby
Senegal would be given access to their fishing waters for a fee.
Senegal has rich deposits of minerals, including gold, phosphates and iron ore. There is also evidence of
off-shore petroleum deposits. Except for phosphates, many of these resources are yet to be developed,
even though a number of foreign investors have expressed interest in the sector. In order to stimulate
such investments, a mining code is being prepared in the context of investment climate reforms. This
code would provide an even playing field and an equitable division of economic rents between the
operator and the country. It is thus likely that during the present decade the mining sector will develop
into an important source of foreign exchange earnings. While the development of the mining sector may
have an impact on the environment, remedial actions will be taken hand in hand with its development.
About 20 percent of the Senegalese workforce is employed in the micro, small and medium enterprise
(MSME) sector, including artisanal activities, which is largely informal. This labor-intensive sector,
dominated by construction, provides low income to people it employs (typically less than US$2/day). In
the medium-term, the Government would like to encourage the development of MSMEs by encouraging
the most dynamic ones to join the formal sector. Investment climate reform will contribute to this
evolution, so would better energy supply, etc. In terms of direct measures, an SMW agency was
established in 2001 to provide institutional support for the sector. However, the PRSP sees better access
to finance and skills enhancement as the two pillars on which the sector would grow. The first objective
will be reached primarily indirectly through the development of micro-finance; the aforementioned postal
reforms could result in increased term resources for the MSMEs. To enhance skills, the Government
intends to build on a successful matching-grant experiment, a demand-driven approach, and put in place a
sustainable scheme that would help attain higher productivity. It is anticipated that these measures will
contribute to the continued development of the sector, and that higher productivity will be reflected in
higher wages and employment levels.
A recent Financial Sector Assessment Report (FSAP) on Senegal finds the rmancial sector relatively
free of high systemic risk, and benefiting from good regulatory and supervision arrangements. However,
financial depth remains shallow and financial instruments lack diversity. The Government expects that
by improving payments systems and mobilizing term resources, the above-mentioned postal and pension
reforms will have a positive impact on financial deepening in the medium-term horizon. As part of the
FSAP follow-up, there will be a study of how direct interventions could help further develop the financial
sector in the medium- to long-term.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The broad strategic choice made was to develop the project as a multi-sector operation intended to
address a number of sector issues. This approach is based on the expectation that the various
subcomponents will complement each other and will be mutually reinforcing. Details on individual
activities are provided below.
-11 -



Investment Climate
The Government recognizes that the perception of country risk increases with uncertainties and
shortcomings in the investment climate, and deters private investment. The first and most important
strategic choice made by the Government concerns the priority given to improving the investment
climnate. This decision was formalized in the context of the November 2002 meetings of the Presidential
Investor Council (an initiative supported at the highest level within Bretton-Woods institutions). The key
sector issues to be addressed in this area include reduction of administrative barriers and of tax-induced
distortions, trade facilitation, and legal strengthening.
The second strategic choice concerns the depth of coverage and prioritization of the issues. In the case of
taxation and administrative barriers, the project would support a comprehensive overhaul of the system.
Trade facilitation, on the other hand, is focused on two priority areas (airport and customs) because other
issues are still being analyzed or other projects are already addressing them (e.g., port, the railroad and
roads). In the case of legal strengthening and the proposed sector expenditure program (SEP),
stakeholders recognized that the reforms sought were long-term and decided that the project's role should
be limited to preparing the groundwork for the SEP and a number of other specific measures needed to
sustain ongoing initiatives.
The third strategic choice made by the Government concerned the single-sector approach towards
infrastructure regulation. This approach was adopted after consideration of the multi-sector alternative,
which may yet prove the best approach in the medium- long-term. The benefit of the single-sector
approach is its simplicity, while some of the benefits of the multi-sector approach in terms of consistency
are captured through an overarching law adopted under the Trade Adjustment Credit (Cr. 3419, closed in
September 2002). It should be noted that individual agencies might at some point be merged into one or
more multi-sector institutions. Thanks to its close collaboration with WBI and extensive training of
regulators offered in Dakar, the Government has also ensured that sufficient human capacity has been
developed in the country to staff the various regulatory agencies.
The last relates to re-establishing an effective private-public consultative process, which had become less
active following the 2000 elections. While this process was already entrenched in Senegal, stakeholders
had recognized for some time that the institutional arrangements needed to be overhauled and updated.
The impetus for change was strengthened by the investor's council (a private/public consultative
initiative supported by the President of the Republic and encouraged by Bretton-Woods institutions),
which helped firm up high-level political support of the process and the adhesion of the private sector.
Private Participation
This activity focuses on institutional aspects of investment promotion and private sector competitiveness.
The main strategic choice under the project was to focus the bulk of this component on investment
promotion. A case could have been made to provide direct targeted support in other areas, such as SME
and export promotion. This choice was made because of (a) the readiness for implementation; (b) the
need to prioritize among competing demands, partly on the basis of expected short- medium-term impact;
and (c) the extent to which issues were being addressed indirectly within other sub-components of the
project and/or in the context of other World Bank and/or donor projects. The second strategic choice
was to make support to APIX output/outcome based. The traditional approach towards institutional
capacity building, which would have been to finance inputs, was rejected in light of experience
elsewhere where there was a shortfall between actual and expected outputs.
- 12 -



The third strategic choice concerned the inclusion of a second matching-grant scheme. The encouraging
results under the first scheme (Private Sector Capacity Building, Cr. 2759, closed in October 2001) in
terms of jobs created, and take up and continued interest by the private sector justified this choice. Two
important shortcomings of the earlier scheme related to sustainability and complex procedures have been
addressed, through greater upstream involvement of support institutions and associations, separation of
hand-holding from disbursement and monitoring functions, simple private sector-based procurement
procedures, and greater attention to sustainability beyond project through the allocation of part of an
existing user fee. Finally, there was a decision to include a small subcomponent to support divestiture
and oversight of public enterprises. The approach used in the project is motivated by the need, after 18
years, to move away from the project implementation unit approach (all privatizations are managed by a
relatively autonomous unit) and mainstream the permanent oversight functions within the Ministry of
Finance.
Sub-Sector and Policy Reform
The first choice was to decide on the coverage of sectors. -For example, it was decided that fisheries
would be treated under separate Bank program. The following choices were also made for the various
sectors covered by the component:
*   Pension, postal and edible- oil sector reforms - The proposed reforms are comprehensive. The
ambitious approach reflects the assumption that financing of the required financial restructuring and
specific policy commitments would be provided in the context of the proposed PSAC. Furthermore,
in the case of postal sector reform, a strategic decision was made to experiment with an approach
whereby financial services would not become fully independent, but would remain a subsidiary of
the post office. This approach intends to capture synergy that may have otherwise been lost.
*   Telecommunication sector reform - The project supports a multifaceted approach, aimed. at
enhancing sector competition and including promotion of rural access and the selectiori of a second
national operator. The approach has been made feasible now that insitutional responsibility for the
telecommunications sector (the Prime-Minister's office) has become clear.  The latter reflects a
strategic decision by the Government, intended to enhance competition in the sector. To support the
development of rural telephony, Government would adopt and publish a strategy and establish a
rural telephony fund to support the implementation of the program.
o   Tourism - The main strategic decision was to support a private sector institutional approach, as
opposed to setting up a public agency, and to focus on capacity building needs of the sector, leaving
infrastructure development to other initiatives.
Implementation Arrangements
Experience in Africa and Senegal with project implementation or management units has been mixed. For
this reason, the Project Management Unit (PMU) will mainly fulfill the administrative functions of the
project and will be accountable to a project steering committee. Project implementation will largely
depend on existing institutions, especially APIX, which has managed the PPF quite effectively, and the
"Unite de Politique Economique" (UPE, a think tank within the Ministry of Finance) with proven track
record in the area of policy reform. This would also avoid the creation of new ad-hoc arrangements.
Other strategic choices were mainly related to the inclusion of a public information campaign and strong
monitoring and evaluation within the project as well as the dissemnination of the new procurement code of
- 13 -



Senegal within the private sector.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The overall objective of the Government's reform program, underpinned by the PRSP, the private sector
development strategy, and other strategic analysis, is to create the conditions to sustain high per-capita
GDP growth of at least 5 percent per-annum. The Government aims to reach this objective through a
series of reforms aimed at eliminating inefficiencies and distortions that lead to misallocation of
resources, constraining Senegal's international competitiveness, and through capacity building. The
project will support these initiatives through interrelated actions aimed at stimulating private investment,
and consists of the four mutually reinforcing components described below. The Credit will finance
consulting and other services, studies, goods, computers and equipment, a few vehicles, training and
minor repairs (civil works), and operating costs.
Project Component 1- Improving the Investment Climate
The objective of this component is to improve the investment environment, by facilitating the policy,
legal and regulatory interface between the public and private sectors. This objective will be achieved
through legal and judicial reform, a improvements in the business environment and in trade facilitation,
enhancing the capacity of the Government to regulate infrastructure and resolve post-privatization issues,
and by reactivating the public/private consultative process. The implementation of the proposed
activities will facilitate and expedite private transactions and reduce their costs. The following activities
will be supported under this component: (a) legal and judicial capacity-building and limited reforms; (b)
business environment enhancement, covering administrative barriers and tax reform; (c) trade
facilitation, encompassing customs and the airport; (d) infrastructure regulation, helping address
emerging post privatization issues; and (e) private-public consultative process.
Project Component 2 - Facilitating Private Participation and Enhancing Competitiveness
In recent years, investment in Senegal has been concentrated in a handful of subsectors. Foreign
investment has been mainly in infrastructure and, to a lesser extent, mining and export activities, notably
fishing. Construction has been a leader in the formal sector together with tourism and fisheries, while the
informal sector has been providing subsistence living opportunities for a large part of the workforce. In
spite of the favorable impact of these investments on Senegal's competitiveness, exports and growth,
employment in the formal private sector has largely stagnated and the outlook for fisheries is limited.
The objective of the private participation component is to: (i) stimulate a higher level of foreign
investment in infrastructure, export-oriented firms and other sectors and broaden private participation in
economnc activities; and (ii) increase the productivity of the local private sector. This objective will be
achieved through the implementation of the following subcomponents: (a) investment facilitation
support, encompassing support to APIX based on results and quantified monitorable indicators being
reached (through a service contract between government and APIX and financed by the project), as well
as funding strategic infrastructure studies to support greater private participation, and institutional
capacity building in key embassies; (b) a matching-grant facility to improve private sector
competitiveness, which would enable enterprises to enhance their know-how through access to business
development services (consultants) on 50:50 cost-sharing basis; (c) capacity-building within support
institutions and private associations; and (d) support to divestiture and oversight of public entities.
- 14 -



Project Component 3 - Stimulating Sector Investment and Implementing Policy Reforms
The objective of this component is to promote subsector reforms that would: (i) directly stimulate
growth in areas where Senegal benefits from untapped potential; (ii) improve the linkages that affect the
ability of the private sector to operate effectively and competitively; and (iii) free-up public and private
resources, which would be available to fund pro-poor private initiatives and, indirectly, finance private
investment.  The following sectors and areas will be covered:   (a) pension reform; (b)
telecommunication reform and development of the information technology sector; (c) postal
reforms, covering both post and financial services; (d) support to the development of tourism; (e)
promotion of the music industry; and (f) assistance to edible oil sector reform. The implementation of
the subcomponents described below would be reinforced by the initiatives described in the previous two
components. The implementation of certain reforms (namely pension, edible oil and postal) would need
to be complemented by a significant amount of financial restructuring that would be financed in part
through the proposed Private Sector Adjustment Credit.
Project Component 4 - Supporting Implementation and Capacity Building
The project will, in substance, be implemented by beneficiaries. In addition, a professional project
management unit (PMU) has been established. This PMU is housed within APIX but under the project
will be accountable to the project Steering Committee.  The PMU would oversee the financial
management, procurement, reporting, monitoring and evaluation, audit, public information and related
functions, as well as manage a handful of actions the coordination of which will be outsourced (e.g.
tourism, and the matching grant). While most partner organizations have the capability to manage the
activities supported by the project, strong complementary implementation capacity is needed to ensure
that project objectives are met. The Credit will thus finance a team of high caliber local professionals
located at the PMU and the related support staff. The management of the matching-grant will be
outsourced to a team of local and international consultants. The PMU will also be responsible for
ensuring adequate monitoring and evaluation, and undertaking the impact assessment of various
components, preparing quarterly progress reports, and facilitating the mid-term review and orderly
closing of the project. The component will also finance the following additional activities: (a) a public
information and communication campaign; (b) strengthening UPE, a think tank in the Ministry of
Finance; (c) implementation and dissemination of the new procurement code. In addition to the
above, the Credit will also refinance US$1.99 million of PPF resources used to prepare the project.
- 15 -



Bank-,
,,,V,.Z,t ,,,r,, ,             cvsw C- % of       financing   Banl;
_______RI}  Total    (US$M     financing:
1. Improving the Investment Climate                  7.60      13.4      7.00      15.2
2. Facilitating Private Participation and Enhancing  14.50     25.6     11.50      25.0
Competitiveness
3. Stimulating Sector Investment and Implementing Policy  28.50  50.3   21.80      47.4
Reform
4. Supporting Implementation and Capacity Building   6.10      10.8      5.70      12.4
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _0 .0   _ _ _ _ _0 .0
Total Project Costs  56.70   100.0     46.00     100.0
Total Financing Required   56.70     100.0     46.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
A Private Sector Policy Statement highlights the key institutional and policy reforms that underpin the
project. Many of these relate to actions that are underway. Government has thus taken several decisions
up-front, including the following: (a) in 2000 establishing APIX, the investment promotion agency; (b)
establishing ART, the telecommunication regulatory agency; (c) establishing a new forum for
private-public sector dialogue, the apex of which is constituted by the Presidential Investors' Council; (d)
launching a program to modermize customs; (e) building capacity at UPE; (f) strengthening the capacity
of the judiciary; (g) adopting and implementing an action plan to reduce administrative barriers and
procedures for the establishment and operational registration of firms to reduce the time required for
these transactions by about 26 percent; (h) making tax reform a priority area; (i) launching pensions
reform through parametric reform of FNR; (j) since 1994, encouraging private participation and
competition in the telecommunication sector; (k) adopting a draft strategy to support postal reforms; (1)
taking first steps in the music sector towards protecting intellectual property rights; and (m) reinitiating a
comprehensive reform of the edible oil sector, starting with privatization of inputs distribution.
The project will help deepen the above-mentioned reforms, especially in the following areas:
o   Improve various aspects of the investment climate, including legal and tax reform, reduction of
administrative barriers (registration, land access and operational requirements), and trade facilitation.
o Enhance policies and regulations pertaining to infrastructure regulation, especially the
telecommunication sector.
o Help Government identify and promote public-private partnerships in the infrastructure sector
through strategic studies.
o   Implement sector reform in the area of pensions, telecommunication and information technology,
postal sector and associated financial services, tourism sector, music industry and edible oil sector.
The project will also support key institutional reforrns, including the following:
- 16 -



* Capacity building to sustain legal strengthening, administrative barrier and tax reform, trade
facilitation and infrastructure regulation.
* Support investment facilitation through performance-based financial support to APIX and capacity
building in key embassies.
*   Implement a sustainable private-public consultative mechanism.
*   Enhance private sector know-how through a sustainable matching-grant scheme and provide
institutional support to private sector promotion agencies and associations.
*   Support institutional reforms to complement sector reforms.
*   Capacity building at UPE so that it can provide policy advice to the Ministry of Finance and support
the implementation of relevant sector reforms.
* Establish a PMU capable of ensuring high caliber project management and coordination.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project is expected to make significant and sustained contributions to the reduction of poverty in
Senegal. The main project benefits will be achieved largely through increased and/or sustained economic
growth resulting from increased investment and efficiency by the private sector. The direct and indirect
effects will be reflected in significant job creation, notably around 30,000 new jobs in the formal sector.
Other benefits include: (a) lower public sector deficits and/or expanded public services through the
elimination of some subsidies, expansion of the tax base, and the reduction of contingent liabilities; (b)
improved access of the poor to services, notably telecommunications, postal and related financial
services; and (c) elimination of major distortions in the economy, such as a regressive tax on the poor
associated with the protection of the edible oil sector. By supporting the reduction or elimination of
various economic rents, the project will have an unfavorable impact on a minority that benefits from the
status quo. These losses would be a small proportion of the expected broad-based benefits. The project
would provide significant benefit to the following three broad groups:
*   Private Sector: The project will benefit large, medium and srnall formal sector enterprises as well as
infornal entrepreneurs. It is expected that these benefits will accrue in most, if not all, sectors of the
economy, and be equitably distributed between local and foreign investors. The project will assist
the private sector by reducing uncertainties related to the investment climate and transaction costs of
doing business in Senegal. It will also open profitable investment opportunities in domestic and
export-oriented sectors.
*   Rural and Urban communities and local population: The project is expected to stimulate formal
and informal sector employment. This benefit would fall not only on urban communities, but also
rural ones, in some part through indirect effects. Notably, the project would contribute to the
medium- long-term urban renewal of Dakar and development of the Dakar-Thies region, and would
thus benefit the large population of the country that lives there through job opportunities and
improved services. Rural populations would also benefit directly from postal reforms and better
access to telecommunication services. Some of the sector reforms, such as those envisaged for the
music industry and vegetable oil, will have a favorable impact on poor segments of the population.
Edible oil sector reform will also benefit urban consumers as well as ground nut farmers who operate
- 17 -



viably and/or can diversify into more lucrative alternatives. These reforms may hurt a minority of
the farmers working under marginal conditions. An ongoing agriculture project (Cr. 3219) and other
government programs will help alleviate the impact on this segment of the population. Finally, an
effective judiciary would contribute to social welfare by guaranteeitig the basic property rights of
citizens and businesses, and help empower the poor.
o   Government: One of the greatest expected benefits of the project is the reduction in potential
contingent liabilities in the area of pensions, postal services, edible oil, etc. Furthermore, the project
would help improve the balance of payments through increased foreign direct investment and higher
export revenues. It would also enhance public revenue collection by encouraging enterprises to
operate in the formal rather than the informal sector. The improved investment climate would
increase public confidence in the legal, fiscal and regulatory framework and its role in enforcing the
laws, and the stability of government institutions. Government would also directly benefit from
improved infrastructure and other services, which should lead to greater public sector productivity.
Finally, a number of ministries and Government agencies would benefit from the institutional
capacity building to be provided under the project. The proposed investment climate and subsector
reformns would thus help refocus the Government, which is currently over-extended, on its core
functions and improve its responsiveness and efficiency.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: Five years, July 2003-June 2008, with the normal six months project
winding-down period between July and December 2008, the closing date.
Implementation Arrangements: The project will be overseen by a Steering Committee (consisting of 6
to 9 members, half of which will be from the private sector), supported by a professional secretariat (the
PMU) responsible for all aspects of financial management, including budgeting and auditing,
procurement, quality assurance, monitoring, evaluation and reporting, etc. Subcomponents will be
largely implemented by partner agencies and stakeholders, even though APIX and UPE will be expected
to play a key facilitation role in certain areas described below. These two institutions will thus be both
beneficiaries as well as implementation agencies under the project. More specifically, the following
institutions will take the lead in the various key activities: (a) APDL - Administrative barrier reform,
private-public consultations and investment facilitation support (in collaboration with the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs); (b) UPE and Ministry of Finance - Legal strengthening and streamlining (in close
collaboration with the Ministry of Justice), Tax reform, trade facilitation (in collaboration with the
Ministry of Transport), infrastructure regulation, divestiture, pensions reform (jointly with the Ministry
of Labor), postal sector reform and edible oil sector reform (in partnership with the Ministry of
Agriculture); (c) outsourced expert - Matching-grant scheme and tourism development, both reporting to
the project Steering Committee; (d) ART (in collaboration with the appropriate sector Ministry) -
Telecommunication reform; and (e) PMU - Implementation responsibilities.  In addition, while
responsibility for implementing the components will ultimately be the responsibility of the appropriate
stakeholder, they will be supported by convened task forces and units which have already been
established for this purpose.
The PMU will work as a facilitator and collaborate closely with the various stakeholders, and with the
UPE, APIX and private associations involved in private sector development. In the case of components
linked to ongoing or future policy reforms, the UPE, which was established to support the Ministry of
Finance and is being financed by the Africa Capacity Building Project would provide technical support
and interface with the PMU. As necessary, the UPE would convene the appropriate stakeholders to
ensure that the dialogue leading to the reforms is comprehensive and participatory. These areas include
telecommunications, pension reform, post reform, judicial and tax reform. APIX, will take the lead for
- 18 -



convening the appropriate stakeholders on matters relating to investment promotion.  The
matching-grant, which would be run by a team of four independent local consultants, one expatriate
specialist (for a period of approximately one year) and one accountant. The accountant would have
responsibility for all financial management of the grant, including disbursement and accounting and
report directly to the PMU financial director.
The PMU will be housed at AP1X or other suitable offices, preferably within partner organizations. This
arrangement will provide economnies of scale with respect to local staff, but does not imply that the PMU
will report to APIX. A leasing arrangement is being finalized to cover costs of rent, and telephone. The
PMU will be headed by a Project Manager (or Project Administrator) who will report directly to the
Steering Committee and who will be accountable for achieving intended project outputs and certain
outcomes. He/she will be supported on a full time basis by a team of professional national consultants
who will be responsible for ensuring that expected project outputs are attained and undertaking the
necessary monitoring and evaluation. The team would include four full time national staff who will be
responsible for the overall project administration, accounting and procurement functions. These persons
will report to a Financial Director. These staff will help ensure compliance with the expected standards
of financial management set by the World Bank. The recruitment of the initial PMU Financial Director
was completed in early 2002 and experience under the PPFs has enabled the fine-tuning of
implementation arrangements to ensure that the PMU will be able to fulfill its responsibilities. In
addition, there will be a communications expert who will report to the Project Administrator and will be
responsible for disseminating social and economic information to the public, based on programs from the
Ministry of Conmmerce, Ministry of Finance and other stakeholders.
The PMU will also be strengthened on a continuous basis through appropriate training. As needs evolve,
it will contract short-term national or international specialists to help it deliver its work program. The
project would finance the team and about 72 person-months of short-term international or local experts to
assist the PMU team in the implementation of its work program, as well as other PMU staff, training,
equipment, operating costs, etc. At the conclusion of the project, it is expected that the PMU would
cease to exist, unless the Government decides to use the established capacity and mandates it to
implement a yet undefined project funded by IDA or another donor.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring and evaluation are key functions that would be carried
out by the PMU. A monthly monitoring table and progress reports would be prepared each semester by
the PMU. A draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP), Financial Management Plan and overall
Procurement Plan have been designed during project preparation to produce a Project Implementation
Manual (PIM). The PIM includes, among others, all periodic reporting, monitoring and evaluation
arrangements throughout the project cycle. Apart from periodic reports and standard monitoring
arrangements, the PIM calls for roughly biannual independent operational audits, which will provide
impact assessments, including of the matching grant, and identify ways to improve project
implementation. A key challenge faced in the context of the operational audits will be to separate results
that are clearly attributable to the project from those that caused by external factors. Finally a mid-term
review is planned by June 2005. The objective of this review would be to assess progress to date and, if
necessary, redirect the project integrating additional lessons learned and the realities on the ground.
Financial Management, Auditing and Procurement: The PMN will be responsible that financial
management, reporting and procurement procedures under the project are acceptable to all stakeholders.
Qualified Bank Staff undertook an assessment of the Financial Management Systems (FMS) and
procurement capabilities of the project, and found these to be broadly satisfactory. In this context, a
time-bound plan for reinforcing capacity in these areas and meeting all expected norms. Independent
- 19 -



auditors acceptable to the World Bank, already recruited under the PPF, would audit the project accounts
and, as needed, those of other implementation agencies, notably APIX's, on an annual basis according to
internationally accepted auditing standards. Following standard requirements and guidelines audits
should be completed and be made available to the World Bank within six months of the end of each
fiscal year (i.e., by June 30th). Two special accounts for a total of CFAF 2.0 billion (about US$3.0
million) will be set up for the project. The first account of CFAF 1.7 billion (about US$2.5 million) will
be used for all the project, except the matching-grant subcomponent. The second special account of
CFAF 300 million (about US$500,000) will be used for disbursements of the matching grant. The initial
deposit at effectiveness will be half of the authorized amount. Unless otherwise agreed by IDA, the
accounts will be fully replenished respectively once cumulative disbursements of US$5 million have
been attained under the project and disbursements under the matching-grant component have reached
US$500,000. The reason for establishing two separate accounts is based on lessons learnt from previous
experience in Senegal and other countries, where high seasonal fluctuations related to disbursements of
the matching-grant have crowded-out other activities. Regular World Bank procurement guidelines will
apply to the project, with the following provisos: (a) the disbursements of the matching-grant will be on
50:50 reimbursement basis, beneficiaries will be responsible for the procurement of consultants and
private sector practices shall apply, even though beneficiaries will be encouraged to consult a roster
maintained by the PMU; unless otherwise agreed by IDA, the maximum cumulative grant amount to be
received by a beneficiary should not exceed US$100,000; (b) disbursement to APIX will be made
quarterly and based on a service contract that specifies output and outcome indicators that will trigger the
financing under the Credit; should a situation arise whereby this contract should be suspended for
nonperformance, APIX may still continue receiving temporary support under the project through the
financing of goods, training and consulting services needed to put its performance back on track; and (c)
disbursements in the form of a capital subsidy to the Universal Access Fund (UEF) under the telecom
subcomponent will be attributed to the goods category of the project.
Retroactive financing: The majority of components of the project are under implementation, which in
some cases is quite advanced. Two PPFs for a total of US$1.99 million have been extended under the
Credit and are fully committed and largely disbursed. While the long project preparation period has
helped solidify stakeholder ownership and quality at entry, it has created the risk of loss of momentum
due to lack of PPF resources. To avoid this situation, retroactive financing of up to US$2.6 million
(about 6 percent of the Credit) for eligible expenditures undertaken after November 1, 2003 has been
requested by Government. All activities programmed under the project may be considered for this type
of financing, which is expected to be utilized mainly for the following activities: (a) operations of the
PMU; (b) priority training; (c) sector reforms, notably pensions, telecoms, edible oil and music industry;
(d) trade facilitation (customs); and (e) capacity building in APIX.
1D. Project Rationale
IL. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project consists of fairly complex mutually-reinforcing components. The broad scope of the project
reflects the recognition by stakeholders that unless a multifaceted, ambitious approach is put in place,
there is risk that Senegal will continue to under-perform compared to its potential and that benefits of
growth will not be widespread. This involves taking advantage of existing opportunities and developing
new ones. The project reflects the richness of the economic and sector work of the past three years,
including strategic diagnostic studies undertaken in the context of project preparation.
The project has evolved considerably since it was first conceived in FY99. The initial design, inspired
by a previous fairly successful operation in the industrial sector conceived in the early 1990s (Cr. 1868),
-20 -



was largely based around an apex line of credit (70 percent of the proposed Credit). The remaining of
the Credit would have helped sustain actions underway under the then ongoing private sector capacity
building project (Cr. 2759), the implementation agency of which would also manage the new project, and
expand the reform agenda towards the reduction of administrative barriers. Even though the task team
was authorized to appraise the project on the basis of this design (PCD review meeting of 4/13/99),
private and public sector stakeholders in Senegal requested a revision in the design so that it could
integrate some of the priorities emerging under the private sector development strategy (May 1999). The
World Bank therefore slowed down project preparation, so that stakeholder feedback could be taken into
account. Elections in Senegal resulted in further delays as the new government decided to further refine
its private sector development strategy and sought to establish new institutions, notably APIX, identified
in the PSD strategy.
Following this hiatus, project preparation was re-initiated in November 2000 and a PPF was put in place
in early 2001. The present project'design reflects both the original concept, as well as a series of new
institutional and policy actions that have been identified as priorities by Senegalese stakeholders in
collaboration with the task team. As a consequence of the expanded priorities, the Credit amount was
increased from US$35 million to US$46 million.
The first alternative rejected was thus the proposed line of credit component. The decision to drop the
component was taken in light of the presence of substantial reflows (repayment of by banks of the capital
and interest of the line of credit that had been extended to them) from the aforementioned previous
World Bank project, the increased ability of local banks to mobilize term resources at competitive costs,
and the availability of IFC guarantee and credit facilities. Furthermore, it was noted that the strategic
objective of mobilizing term resources would be attained through other actions, notably, the reform of
pensions and of postal financial services. These reforms are expected to help mobilize term resources
that can be recycled through sound financial intermediaries.
Another approach considered but rejected related to whether the financial restructuring needed to sustain
edible oil sector, postal and pension reforms should be financed by the Credit. Given the ineligibility at
present under investment operations of such financial restructuring and the difficulties with hybrid
operations, related to ensuring the right timing and sequencing of the reforms with the diagnostics of the
problems and institutional support, it was decided to address these needs under a separate adjustment
operation (proposed PSAC).
The possibility of separating the present operation into two separate projects was considered. This would
have simplified the project. However, there was a risk that synergy would be lost, especially if the
processing of one of the possible projects experienced delays. Such an approach would have also
imposed added pressure on Bank resources, which could not be justified in light of competing priorities.
Another strategic decision was not to finance major infrastructure programs, for example in the context
of implementing the tourism master plans, or to help in the development of dry-ports. The reason for this
decision was that this would have further delayed, and increased the complexity of the project, which
would have probably needed to be turned into an APL. It was agreed that if warranted, the World Bank
Group could support viable priority infrastructure investments through future IDA Credits and/or IFC
investments, as well as through MIGA and/or other types of guarantees.
Finally, certain possible subcomponents were dropped to ensure the project focused on high priority
activities, avoid excessive complexity or further delays, and to fit the project within the allotted IDA
ceiling. These possibilities included more substantial support to ADEPME (the SME promotion agency
established in 2001) and similar institutions, fisheries reform (now being contemplated as a major
- 21 -



component of a different project), support to the development of micro-finance, and the artisanal sector.
Other donors, notably France and USAID, are expected to support some of these areas and institutions.
In the case of other areas that have the potential to emerge as priorities, stakeholders also noted that
further preparatory work would be needed.
2. Major related projects rmanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
LAtest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                (PSR) Ratings
._______________________________ .______________________ _ .(lBank-tinanced  prole-cts.only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Industry sector: Investment promotion PE-2339, Cr. 1868-SN (Closed  S         S
and institutional capacity building.  on 30/6/98)
Private sector: Reforms of trade policy, PE-2364, Cr. 2681-SN (Closed  S      S
export and invetsment regimes,   on 30/6/96)
marntime transport and labor laws.
Private sector: Enterprises'     PE-2376, Cr. 2759-SN (Closed    S            S
competitiveness, policy reform, legal  on 10/31/01)
framework and privatization.
Agriculture: Liberalize rice sector,  PE-2356, Cr. 2738-SN       S            S
reform the agricultural trade regime,  (Closed on 1/9/98)
privatize the production, processing
and marketing of agricultural products.
Agriculture: Export promotion.   PE-51610, Cr. 3017 (ongoing)    S            S
Energy: Sector reform and private  PE-51357, Cr. 3069 (Closed on  S           S
participation.                   1/31/02)
Transport: Road, rail and port reform                            S            S
and private participation.       PE-2366, Cr. 3183 (ongoing)
Trade policy reform: facilitate trade                            S            S
and tax procedures, and promote  PE-55471, Cr. 3419 (Closed on
competitive pricing of public utilities. 0/30/02)
sector.
Water: Expand coverage.          PE-41528, Cr. 3470 (ongoing)    S            S
Energy reform: Private sector    Under preparation
participation and efficiency.
Private sector adjustment: Reforms of Under preparation
taxation, the edible oil sector, pension
system and postal financial services.
- 22 -



Other development agencies
Small and medium enterprise      AFD (under preparation).
development.
Export promotion/AGOA, business  USAID (under preparation)
development services, liberalization of
information technology sector.
Arbitration center and micro-enterprise USAID (Ongoing)
support.
Adoption of norms and standards, and UNIDO (as executing agency
enterprise support.              of programs funded by other
donors, ongoing).
Business development services and  EU and EIB (ongoing)
investment finance.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
In view of the ambitious goals supported by the project, particular attention has been paid to ensuring
that its design reflects not only the Bank's experience in Senegal and Sub-Saharan Africa, but also
integrates approaches currently being pursued in other developing countries.  Project preparation
significantly benefited from the inputs of various networks and central departments in the World Bank,
notably social protection, and the postal and telecommunication unit, while also bringing in the expertise
of the World Bank's global product group, including FIAS, MIvGA, WBI, and the SME department. The
important lessons and approaches integrated in the project include the following:
(a)    Judicial Reform, Strengthening and Capacity Building - The experience under the previous
Private Sector Capacity Building project (Cr. 2759) has shown the limitation of implementing reforms
without full involvement of the Ministry of Justice. This has been corrected in project design and shouild
be a key to sustaining reforms started earlier and addressing immediate needs. As highlighted in other
World Bank projects (e.g. Armenia, Cr. 3417) a judicial sector review should be a prerequisite for any
lending operation. Judicial reform operations should recognize that: (i) reforms are part of a long-term
process; (ii) sustainability of the reforms depend on building strong institutions; and (iii) the right
balance should be found between guidance provided by comparative law experience and the particular
requirements of the national legal systems. The project approach integrates these lessons, by supporting
the formulation of a sector expenditure program, the first step in a long-term process, with the support of
the local and international consultants.
(b)    Business Environment - Thanks to the participation of FIAS in the design and implementation
of tax and administrative barrier reforms, Africa-wide and international experience is fully reflected in
the project. One lesson learnt is that initially promising reforms do not necessarily lead to the sufficient
improvements in the investment climate. In view of this, reforms need to be underpinned by surveys and
quantitative methods, and monitored with respect to national and international indicators. The other
lesson learnt, especially with respect to alleviation of red-tape, is that the reform process is iterative, and
requires strong stakeholder participation and ownership.
- 23 -



(c)    Trade Facilitation- By bringing in ISO norms into the design of customs reform, the project
helps ensure convergence with current international best-practice. The proposed support to the airport is
pragmatic and based on short-term needs identified by Senegalese stakeholders and certain norms
expected by the FAA in order for the Dakar airport to meet FAA category one requirements. The
approach would integrate lessons learnt elsewhere, including under the Ghana Gateway Project (Cr.
3114).
(d)    Infrastructure Regulation - The importance of adequate regulatory capacity in the context of
infrastructure reform has been identified in the context of the recent Senegal country framework report
(CFR). This report draws on experience with five years of reforms in the sector. The project builds on
the CFR recommendations as well as international experience, notably in Latin America, where the
importance of building an independent regulatory capacity, preferably prior to divestiture, has been
demonstrated. In practice, most of the support under the project is focused on the telecom regulator,
largely because other regulatory agencies already benefit from the support of other IDA projects in the
transport and energy sectors. Nevertheless, cross-cutting issues have been identified and will be tackled
through the post training aftercare provided in partnership between Senegal and WBI. This partnership
builds on an approach successfully implemented in Argentina, and tried with partial success in Ivory
Coast, where political events of the past three years effectively halted the program.
(e)    Public-Private Consultations - The importance of building an effectiv private-public dialogue is
identified as a key area in the Africa region's private sector development strategy. Since the early 1990s,
Senegal has benefited from a dynamic and relatively effective public-private dialogue, which is now
accepted and expected by stakeholders. Following recent institutional changes and a rationalization
exercise in Senegal since 2000, some of the traditional channels, such as the "Groupe de Reflection pour
la Competitivit6 et la Croissance" (GRCC), have been abandoned. Their replacements reflect the
positive experience under GRCC and they are designed in a way that ensures commitment at the highest
political level.
(f)    Institutional Support for Investment Promotion - While Senegal has a limited track record in
this area, IDA has been supporting promotion agencies in Africa since at least the early 1990s. This
experience has highlighted the importance of good corporate governance, independence of the agency,
and clear directions, all of which would apply to APIX. Incorporating best-practice, the business plan is
the key driver of the support under the project, which parallels the output-based approach that is being
successfully used to ensure efficient service delivery in infrastructure as well as social sectors. This type
of approach had been pursued with the Uganda Investment Authority in the mid-1990s (under Cr. 2798),
with limited success until recently due to recurring problems with corporate governance and insufficient
institutional focus. At its conceptual stage, APIX benefited from FLAS support, which helped integrate
lessons learnt internationally in its design. The APIX business plan has benefited from the inputs and
advice of MIGA, based on its experience in Mozambique (under Cr. 3317), Tanzania (stand alone
program) and Armenia (under Cr. 3633).
(g)     Matching Grant - Senegal will be one the first countries in Africa to implement a second
generation matching grant, and thus benefits from lessons learnt throughout the continent. The present
project builds upon Senegal's past satisfactory experience, while addressing upfront some of the
shortcomings of the first generation schemes, including: (i) lack of institutional and financial
sustainability; (ii) insufficient ownership and involvement of stakeholders; (iii) insufficient independence
of the grant management and risk of capture by special interests; and (iv) inadequacies in monitoring and
evaluation capacity. The procedures manual of the scheme will thus integrate provisions to address these
-24 -



issues, and the grant will be managed by a team consisting of local and international experts.
(h)    Pension Reform - The conceptual ground for the pension reform in Senegal has been laid
through econornic and sector work initiated in 2000. The depth and breadth of the proposed reforms
places Senegal among the leaders in Africa. Bank lending in support of such reforms is usually through
fairly substantial adjustment operations (see for instance the examples of the Russian Federation, Ln.
4234, and Bulgaria, Ln. 4081). This approach facilitates the financing necessary financial restructuring,
but suffers from the fact that the time frame for adjustment operations is shorter than that needed to
ensure sustainability through appropriate systems and capacity building. There are also examples of
pension reform being supported under investment operations, for instance in Mali (Cr. 3394) and at the
municipal level in Brazil (Ln. 4369 and Ln. 4537). Such approaches are partial as they tend to respond to
capacity building needs without tackling significant policy reforms. Taking this experience into account,
and even though financing of government liabilities to pensions schemes is not yet eligible under
investment operations, the present project aims to support ambitious policy reforms together with
comprehensive capacity building. This approach seems feasible because the reform will benefit from
additional support envisaged under the proposed Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC). It parallels
World Bank support to divestiture programs in some South American countries through separate but
closely related investment/technical assistance and adjustment operations.
(i)    Telecommunication Reform - The international experience, reflected in the WTO guidelines,
indicates that the optimum market structure for the telecommunication sector is an open, competitive one.
Senegal has already successfully attracted private operators in the sector and its further opening under the
project should help establish a competitive market. By bringing best practice in the licensing of
operators, the Government will ensure full transparency and avoid some of the shortcomings it has
identified in previous transactions. In addition, to avoid undermining property rights, due process should
be followed if certain provisions of existing licenses need to be renegotiated. International experience in
infrastructure reform also shows that sector policy should be set by government, while regulation handled
separately by an independent entity, as envisaged in Senegal.  With respect to promoting rural
telecommunication services, the experience of Peru and other countries shows that the output-based aid
approach tends to achieve the best results. As was recently the case for a number of African countries
(including Burkina Faso and Tunisia), the project will thus finance and output-based scheme.
(j)    Postal Reform - A comprehensive review of the postal sector worldwide shows that mere
corporate transformation in the postal sector has not led to performance improvements. In fact, in some
instances, unfocused corporatization has led to service deterioration. A comprehensive reform covering
the entire sector stands as the best vehicle to provide a conducive environment for change and sector
development. In the postal sector, three important components of reform are: (i) the definition of a sector
policy by which the Government identifies its development objectives for the postal sector and the main
strategic avenues to take in order to reach those objectives (progressive sector liberalization, adequate
regulatory framework allowing level-playing field-competition while safeguarding the universal service);
(ii) the definition of an adequate status, organization and a viable financial structure for the historical
postal operator often responsible for the provision of the universal service, in order to secure its
corporate freedom, and flexibility access to capital in order to meet the challenges of competition while
remaining fully accountable towards its public service missions; and (iii) the definition of a corporate
strategy and an adequate capacity building plan, including the diversification from the core activities to
leverage the economies of scale and scope embedded in the postal network, in order to better prepare the
historical postal operator for competition. This project addresses all three of these needs. Recently, the
World Bank has supported a number of initiatives aimed at either improving and liberalizing post office
services, or spinning off postal financial services (e.g, Cameroon under Cr. 3359, where important
- 25 -



lessons on potential risks have been learned) and/or setting up rural savings institutions (e.g., in Tanzania
in the context of privatization of its commercial Bank). The experience of Francophone Africa indicates
that fully integrated postal and financial services, such as the one in Senegal, are not desirable because
cross subsidies between the two tend to run down assets of the depositors and result in unfunded
liabilities. However, there are also limitations to fully separating post office and its related financial
services, because different corporate cultures result in incompatibility and loss of important synergy:
such as a situation recently led to the repurchase by the German post office of its formerly privatized
financial services. Given these experiences, the project will support a reform process which calls for
financial services of the post office to be made into a subsidiary. Once this objective is attained, the
project will also help the financial services develop their resource mobilization and low risk, sustainable
lending services, possibly as a wholesaler of micro-finance.
(k)    Tourism Development - The only Bank experience in tourism development in Senegal dates
back to the 1970s (Ln. 1412 and 1413). These projects financed the development of master plans and
capacity building, as well as investments in sites and services, and constructions. The weaknesses of the
project included underperformance of institutions and fewer than expected infrastructures built.
Nevertheless, with the benefit of hindsight of 20 years, it can be said that this project led to investments
in other hotels and to the substantial expansion in the number of tourists visiting the country. It also
seems likely that a greater degree of private sector involvement would have helped improve outcomes.
These lessons as well as others learnt elsewhere, summarized in the Africa Tourism Strategy Report,
were integrated in project design. The problem of long construction delays, for instance, is the main
reason why the subcomponent does not finance investments.
(I)    Promotion of the Music Industry - Experience shows that the sustainable development of
cultural heritage goes hand in hand with tourism development and can be designed in a way that allows
the sector to be viable. This approach is embodied in a Bank project in Tunisia (Ln. 7059). It is also
reflected in the design of the present project, which focuses mainly on the legal framework, capacity
building and safeguard of cultural heritage dimensions of the development of the music industry of
Senegal.
(m)    Edible Oil Sector Reform - The reform of the groundnut sector has been a priority in Senegal
since well before 1995. Since then, three IDA Credits have supported this reform with limited success.
Lessons learnt indicate that when the projects (including the recently completed private sector project,
Cr. 2759) that focused mainly on divestiture failed because there were too many uncertainties regarding
future sector policies, including trade policy and financing regimes. While some reforms were
implemented under sectoral adjustment Credits (Cr. 2738 and Cr. 2681) these were limited by the short
timeline of the operations: subsequent reforms were not implemented. The project and the proposed
complementary PSAC, together with the ongoing rural development project (Cr. 3219), build on this past
experience as well as parallel similar efforts underway in Mali, Benin and, with limited success, Uganda
in the area of cotton reform. The main lessons learnt include the importance of ensuring the buy-in of
stakeholders, tackling sector policies ahead of divestiture, formulating divestiture activities in a manner
that ensures transparency and maximize competition potential, and providing a safety net and/or
alternative activities to affected farmers.
(n)    Implementation Arrangements - The implementation arrangements follow current best practice
in ongoing private sector projects (e.g., Mozambique Cr. 3317) whereby beneficiaries substantially
manage their own subcomponent, while strong financial management, procurement, and monitoring and
evaluation capacity is provided by a centralized project management unit. The present project also is
designed in a way that avoids the shortcomings of the previous project in Senegal, which resulted from
-26 -



the absence of strong guidance and conflict resolution by a high level steering committee, and from lack
of sanctions for the underperformance of certain partners.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The project supports a program developed by private and public sector stakeholders, who have requested
IDA support for and financing of key activities. The various components that have been included in the
project reflect their priorities. All subcomponents have been prepared in a participatory manner and
widely discussed with stakeholders. In important areas such as the investment climate, pensions, private
participation, investment promotion and sector reform economic and sector work and strategic studies
undertaken jointly by Government and the World Bank Group have further strengthened the ownership
and commitment of stakeholders. There is now a broad consensus around the project, even if on the
detailed approach practical compromises have been made.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Under the project, the Bank group will provide essential financing and technical support to help the
Government implement deep reforms aimed at moving the country towards a higher, sustainable growth
path. The World Bank Group. notably IDA, MIGA, FIAS, the social protection anchor and WBI, have
been actively involved in project preparation and have helped bring together stakeholders, who from time
to time had opposing views on key issues. As the project is implemented, the Bank team, thanks to the
track record it has developed over the past two years through the partnerships developed with
stakeholders, is expected to be called upon to help resolve problems, should they arise. The credibility of
government to see through the reforms and the participatory process would thus be strengthened.
Government officials, the private sector and donors see the World Bank as having the knowledge
required to provide timely advice and technical assistance to manage the complexities of the program.
Through Bank involvement, Senegal will thus benefit from lessons learnt elsewhere. There has been a
conscious effort in the design of the project to avoid duplicating the initiatives of other donors. In
practice, while many donors actively support Senegal's development efforts, the amount of resources they
allocate to private sector development is relatively limited. Given the relatively high costs of the reforms
that have been identified, it is very unlikely that the reform program could go ahead and implemented
without substantial IDA funding. Finally, as indicated in the table in section D.2. above, the Bank has
had relatively good experience with implementing projects in the sector in Senegal (all final ratings of
recent projects were "satisfactory"). This project, whose design wherever possible is output/outcome
based, not only aims to replicate this past success, but also to surpass it in terms of high developmental
impact.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$12.5 million; ERR = 19.8 % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
A cost-benefit analysis has been used to calculate the Net Present Value (NPV) and Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) in a "with" and "without" project framework. The net present value of the overall project
is estimated at about US$12.5 million for a 12 percent discount rate, while its internal economic rate of
return is estimated at 19.8 percent. Throughout the lifetime of the project, a minimum of 7,200 jobs are
expected to be created not only by the matching-grant supported SMEs, but also by new productive
activities encouraged by the Investment Promotion and Infrastructure Agency, APIX. Positive
externalities generated by the project are also expected to translate in indirect additional job creation.
- 27 -



The positive impact on the fiscal position estimated at about US$8.4 million results from increased direct
and indirect corporate taxes and taxes on incremental wages. All the ERRs for the subcomponents are
above 12 percent indicating that the project is robust.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ mrillion; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Given that the project finances mainly technical assistance, there are no clear revenue streams that would
permit a straightforward financial analysis. However, in the absence of major distortions, financial and
economic costs and benefits should converge towards one another.
Fiscal Impact:
The project's fiscal impact is expected to be favorable and substantial. While tax reforms may initially
lead to short-term revenue shortfalls, these should be made up rapidly as the tax base is enlarged and
economic growth expands taxable revenues. Similarly, edible oil, pension, and post office reforms
initially involve a large one-time financial restructuring that may exceed US$100( million. The fiscal
impact will be short-term and alleviated by some of the expected donor financing. Furthermore, given
the incremental annual costs to the economy that in some recent years have surpassed US$100 million,
the net medium- long-term fiscal impact of the reform should be substantially positive.
3. Technical:
The project will help attract direct foreign investment. This will directly bring new technology and
management know-how, especially in export-oriented activities. These benefits will also trickle down to
firms involved in subcontracting. The development of certain subsectors, notably those related to
information technology, would also enhance Senegal's technical expertise in these areas.  The
matching-grant facility is also expected to provide an important impetus for skills and technological
upgrading within both formal and informal sectors of the economy that will be sustained well beyond the
life of the project.
4. Institutional:
Two important lessons were learnt under the previous private sector project (Cr. 2759): (a) coordination
of various activities needs to be built into project design and streamlined in operational arrangements;
and (b) effective involvement, participation and accountability of stakeholders in various activities are a
key to success. While these risks exist in the project, they have been moderated by consensus building
up-front, involvement of stakeholders in the implementation of various activities and in overseeing the
project as a whole, through the Steering Committee, and the establishment of a strong PMU capable of
ensuring various aspects of project management and implementation, coordination and monitoring and
evaluation functions. To further solidify the arrangements and minimize risks, the Government has been
willing to discuss difficult issues in public forums, and to involve private stakeholders in the management
and oversight of the project. In the context of project preparation, an institutional appraisal of APIX was
carried out by the Bank team; this evaluation led to the recommendation that financing provided be
output-based. The institutional capacity of UPE has been assessed by ACBF and been found to be good.
This finding is validated by the track record of UPE throughout project preparation.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Overall project management, including all procurement, financial, administrative, reporting, monitoring
and evaluation functions have been placed under the PMU. The PMU will also be the secretariat to the
Steering Committee responsible for overall project oversight.  Project subcomponents will be
implemented by stakeholders, mainly under the leadership of APIX and UPE. These stakeholders
include, the office of the Prime Minister, the Ministries of Finance, Justice, Agriculture, Tourism,
- 28 -



Culture, and Foreign Affairs, as well as various public and private institutions cited in the present
document.
4.2 Project management:
Given the relatively low volume of activity under the PPF, up to now project management has been
provided by APIX, while the rest of PMU staff have been recruited. Activities are expected to pick up as
project implementation is launched. Therefore, a project manager, who will have oversight of the PMU,
will be competitively selected prior to project effectiveness. The PMU staff will be accountable to work
closely with implementation agencies and provide them with required support, especially in the areas of
coordination, reporting, financial management and procurement. In addition, the matching grant will be
managed independently by a team of local and internationally recruited experts, and a team leader will be
hired to manage support to tourism. It is anticipated that at the end of the project the PMU will cease to
exist.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The PMU will be the coordinating and responsible agent for all procurement funded by the Project. It
will handle the procurement requests according to monthly procurement schedules submitted by each
implementing agency. It will have staff who are fully familiar with Bank procurement procedures. The
Procurement Action Plan is being finalized. It will be incorporated in the PIP and submitted to the Bank
prior to effectiveness. Furthermore, special attention has been given to procurement issues during project
preparation. The PPF provided opportunities for leaning by doing as well as capacity building through
formal training. The PMU recognizes that such capacity building needs to be sustained throughout
project implementation and will include training in this area in the overall project training plan. Should
the need arise for more complex procurements, the project may finance the services of an international
short-term advisor, who would be available on retainer basis. A procurement specialist would be
recruited so as to be in place before effectiveness. The required qualification and experience for both the
consultant and procurement specialist are: (a) holding a graduate degree in either of the following, (i)
Engineering (civil, mechanical or industrial), or (ii) similar advanced degree from a recognized
university; (b) at least five (5) years of experience in Contract/Procurement Management; experience
with the World Bank financed projects and familiarity with World Bank Procurement Guidelines would
be of particular advantage; (c) demonstrated ability to resolve timely and efficiently all contractual and
procurement matters and adequate experience in handling consultant contracts and related issues; and (d)
demonstrated skills in computer application and use of software programs for contract works,
management/procurement database and monitoring.
Finally, by supporting the dissemination and implementation of the newly-adopted Senegalese
procurement code, the project would contribute to improving the overall procurement environment in the
country. The scope of activities to be financed under the credit will be determined after the achievement
of ongoing CPAR, some domains listed below including but is not limited to, the Implementation and
Dissemination of the new Procurement Code, have already been identified and corresponds to the need of
the team who are coordinating the CPAR. Otherwise, as detailed in Annex 6 A, there were not any
significant procurement issues identified during project appraisal.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The PMU will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures under the
proposed project are acceptable to all stakeholders. Qualified Bank staff has undertaken a financial
management review. Independent auditors acceptable to the Association, already recruited internationally
under the PPF, would audit the project accounts, the accounts of the PIU and as needed, those of other
implementing agencies, on an annual basis according to internationally accepted auditing standards. IDA
prepared an assessment of the Financial Management Systems (FMS) of the project, including a
- 29 -



time-bound plan to achieve required capacity. The FMS, as well as auditing arrangements satisfactory to
have been agreed with the Government. Two special accounts (one for the project and one for the
matching grant), for a total of FCFA 2.0 billion (about US$3.0 million) are envisaged for the project.
There were no major financial management issues identified during project appraisal. More details are
provided in Annex 6 B.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project involves mainly institutional capacity for policy and subsector reform. There are no direct or
indirect physical investments and no environmental issue is present.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N.A.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N.A.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N.A.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N.A.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
There are no social issues triggered by the project. A number of project subcomponents are expected to
lead to favorable social outcomes. First and foremost, the employment that is expected to be generated
by the project is expected to contribute to the alleviation of urban and peri-urban poverty. The
strengthening of the pension system would help ensure that there is a secure and sustainable pension
system. Pensions represent an important element of the social safety net put into place by Government
for formal sector employees, which has a fiduciary responsibility to ensure that it will be able to
continually meet the needs of people, without putting an undue strain on the fiscal situation. The project
contributes to this goal through reforms aimed at establishing the financial equilibrium of the schemes.
The edible oil sector reform is also expected to have a largely favorable social impact, in part because the
regressive consumption tax on the sector will be reduced and in part because farmers will be given the
opportunity to diversify into other more lucrative activities. Finally, postal reforms will provide the rural
poor with better access to postal and financial services.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The principal stakeholders are: potential private investors, local entrepreneurs, employees of private
firms, informal sector workers, including musicians, taxpayers and the public at large, the urban and rural
poor, and the Government, as well as the donor community that supports Senegal's developmental efforts.
The Government has taken a proactive approach to enlisting the support of these constituencies, which
will be sustained through the public information campaign integrated in the project design. Starting with
the 1999 private sector strategy, various project subcomponents have been designed with the full
- 30 -



participation of private and public stakeholders, and with the support of the donor community. During
preparation, and then execution, regular meetings were/will be held with the donor community to avoid
duplication of support and to seek its views on the economic and financial environment in Senegal. There
will be several methods to ensure stakeholder participation. It will be the responsibility of Steering
Committee to ensure that stakeholder participation is effective. There will be annual forums to ensure
that the issues are well discussed and appropriate solutions presented, which can be translated into
action. Finally, by supporting the public-private consultative process, the project would help sustain
stakeholder participation in and ownership of key reforms.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As explained under 6.2 above, all key stakeholders have been involved through workshops and other
types of communications by the project. This involvement will be further stepped up during project
implementation, especially through the communication campaign and by the participation of stakeholders
in the Steering Comnmittee and reform working groups.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Steering Committee will be working very closely with the executing and implementing agencies.
The PMU will be responsible for monitoring outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Operational audits will be undertaken approximately every 24 months among stakeholders to obtain
feedback on the effectiveness of the program supported by the project. Supervision missions and project
reports will also be utilized as monitoring tools.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are an) of the following safeguard policies triggered by the project?
p - - 2  -.P-  L  ;  - .I
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)        (9 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                (9 Yes S No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 (9 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   (9) Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               U Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                U Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                       ( Yes * No
Safety of Dam (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            U Yes S No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  ( Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*     _ Yes S No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N.A.
- 31 -



F. Sustainabllity and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project provides financial, technical assistance, and associated institutional and policy support for a
well-defined, time-bound process involving permanent improvements in the policy and institutional
environment, and stimulating private investment. The irreversible nature of these actions significantly
enhances the likelihood that once implemented they will be largely sustained. The participatory
approach and the public information campaign programmed under various activities further enhances
ownership and sustainability.  Furthermore, the design of certain components further enhance
sustainability, especially in the following areas: (1) support to APIX will be output based and declining
over time; this will reduce donor dependency and increase ownership; (2) the matching-grant will
become a revolving fund sustained by existing user fees, while its clients will see sustainability through
increased competitiveness; (3) the creation of new public institutions is discouraged in favor of
autonomous private arrangements (e.g., for tourism promotion) with revenue-generation capacity. The
tumover of staff in some institutions is a concern that may limit the sustainability of institutional reformns.
To minimize this possibility, the staff of autonomous agencies are expected to receive market-based
compensation, and training will be a permanent feature of institutional arrangements established under
project. Furthermore, certain arrangements, such as the PMU and specific task forces, are temporary in
nature and are not expected to be sustained beyond the life of the project.
It is anticipated that, in due course, the sustainability of certain actions will be addressed outside the
project. For example, the proposed PSAC would provide the required resources to help implement the
financial restructuring of the pensions system, the edible oil sector and the post office. Other actions,
such as certain tourism and infrastructure investments, the implementation of a sector investment
program in the judicial sector, and/or private investment promotion measures and institutional support
not included in the project may be sustained by the Bank through future PRSCs and investment
operations, and/or by other donors. Project sustainability has been further enhanced by the fact that
potential high risks in areas related to a particular subcomponent have been brought within the project
within a different subcomponent. Admittedly, this has been achieved at the cost of greater complexity of
the project. Another aspect of sustainability relates to the effective buy-in to the project concept and
design by main stakeholders, including the local business community and Government.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
The main risk of this project relates to its complexity, and the commitment of Government to sustain
policy reform and alter its role in the economy. These and other risks, detailed in the table below, are
expected to be manageable. Further mitigation measures are included within the project or within the
overall Bank support to Senegal discussed in the draft 2003-2005 CAS and associated Bank support. The
critical energy sector reform falls within the latter category.
Ri R3isk                                       Rik Mlitlati6n Moeasur
From Outputs to Objective
Macroeconomic stability not sustained     N         Part of this risk is outside the project and
relates to regional issues and the
implementation of the macroeconomic
program. The sector reforms within the project
would help eliminate actual and potential
liabilities, even though some would impose
short-term demands on the budget. Investment
-32 -



climate reforms should also contribute to
supply response and increase tax revenues.
The project will thus contribute to greater
macroeconomic stability.
Government commitment to reforms not      S       The complexity and breadth of the reforms
sustained                                         envisaged increase the risk that the
Government might not be able to adequately
implement the programs supported by the
budget. In the case of investment climate
reform, inertia and resistance to change by
vested interests have also been identified as
risks. The risk mitigation measures within the
project are embodied in its output-based
approach, the involvement of stakeholders in
implementation, and resources available under
the Credit to address issues as they anse.
Capacity building program is not         M         Support under the project is triggered by
implemented                                        business plans and is fully funded. The main
risk is related to slippage in corporate
governance in key institutions, which will be
monitored during project implementation.
APIX not able to fulfill its expanded    M         Proposed support will be output-based and
mandate due to increasing management              related to five year business-plan.
difficulties
Public-private partnership is not achieved  M      Senegal has a proven track record of effective
partnerships. These may be weakened during
politically sensitive periods and when
disagreements between or within private and
public stakeholders arise. The participatory
approach and any slippages in key benchmarks
should provide early warning of emerging
problems.
Infrastructure regulation is not enforced  S       The regulatory agencies are nascent, and lack
experience. This problem has been alleviated
through capacity building started during project
preparation, to be continued under the project.
Possible government interference and
insufficient independence is also a concern that
will be regulatory monitored.
Project management not effective and     M         Lack of resources, high turnover of staff and
and project implementing instiutions do           insufficient collaboration between teams have
not coordinate their work.                         been problem in previous projects. These risks
will be mitigated through sufficient project
funding, adequate compensation and training,
- 33 -



and by part of professional staff remuneration
being made dependent on results.
Lack of full political commitment from    M        Maintain dialogue with Government and
Government to gradual merge of FNR                 stakeholders to ensure that suitable institutional
with the IPRES                                     arrangements are found and the the economic
advantages to the merger are captured.
Failure of second national operator and   M        Use of international advisors to market
rural connectivity program due to lack of          transactions and implement sound regulatory
private sector interest. Shortcomings in           regime. Safeguards in place for the
the mechanism put in place by                      disbursement of IDA resources for rural
Government to allocate rural fund                  program on matching basis.
resources
Stalled growth, identified as a risk in the  M     By removing sectoral and policy constraints,
CAS                                                the project would help alleviate this risk.
From Components to Outputs
Counterpart funds are not available       M        Arrangements have been made to ensure
adequate resources are prograrrmed at the
beginning of the year and that user fees
earmarked for certain activities are transfered
in a timely manner.
PMU is not capable of managing projects   M        Provide adequate equipment, human and
financial resources.
Complex design hinders implementation     M        Provide clear responsibility and sufficient
resources to the implementation and Bank
teams.
Overall Risk Rating                       M        Quality of preparation and high stakeholder
ownership.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
o   The Borrower has adopted the project implementation manual, including a project implementation
plan and a manual of administrative, financial and accounting procedures, in form and substance
satisfactory to IDA.
o The borrower has recruited an external auditor in form and substance satisfactory to IDA.
O   The Borrower has established the Project Steering Committee, fully operational, and the PMU, and
has appointed to the staff of PMU a Project Unit Manager, a Financial and Administrative Manager,
a Procurement Specialist and, an Accountant.
-34 -



* The Borrower has established and caused to be established a financial management and accounting
system for the Project, satisfactory to the Association
* The Borrower has submitted a procurement plan satifactory to IDA for the first year of project
activities.
* The initial deposit has been paid in the Project Account.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Disbursement conditions
* Prior to disbursement of Service Agreement between the Ministry of Finance and Apix, the
Association should have been furnished with the 5-year business plan of APIX, including budget,
work program and indicators, satisfactory to the Association, and duly approved by the Borrower and
the APID executive committee.
* Prior to disbursement of the matching-grant facility, a component management team with staffing
acceptable to IDA should be in place.
*   Prior to disbursement to the Universal Access Fund (UEF), the Borrower should have adopted a rural
telecommunications development strategy satisfactory to the Association, and have established the
UEF with rules and procedures acceptable to the association.
Other Conditions
* Conduct, in collaboration with IDA, a mid-term review of the project no later than December 31,
2005.
* By the end of each quarter, APIX shall present a progress report on implementation of the business
plan and key monitoring indicators. In addition, by January 30 of each year, APDX shall present a
revised business plan, with revised indicators and annual budget, acceptable to IDA.
* Preparation by the Government and review with IDA by November 30 and May 31 of each year of a
report that integrates the results of monitoring and evaluation activities in the implementation of the
project and achievements of project objectives.
* Undertake two operational audits of the project and review with IDA, no later than June 30, 2005 and
June 30, 2007.
* Provide annual audit of APIX and other key beneficiary institutions as requested by IDA prior to
December 31 of each year.
* Complete a detailed independent impact assessment of the project and submit to IDA no later than
three months prior the project closing.
* Maintenance of the PMU under the Steering Committee in the form and with functions, staffing and
resources acceptable to IDA.
* The Borrower shall enter into a services Agreement with APIX (the APIX Services Agreement)
therein setting forth the terms and conditions for the provision of services by APIX for the
implementation of fostering investment subcomponent of the Project, including, but not limited to, (i)
the respective obligations of the parties concerning the execution of specific activities to be detailed
out in the APIX business plan, as agreed between the Borrower and the Association, and the annual
updates and revisions in respect thereof, (ii) the procurement and the financial obligations of the
Borrower with respect to the execution of such business plan by APIX, including the periodicity of
amounts to be paid in relation thereto, (iii) the performance indicators, auditing and reporting
requirements of APIX with respect to the execution of its business plan, and (iv) all arrangements
and obligations relevant to the implementation of APIX business plan as agreed with the Borrower
and the Association, and as further detailed in the APIX Services Agreement and the PIM.
-.35 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
3 1. b) Not applicable.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Steady progress is being made towards meeting effectiveness conditions (see Section G), which
are expected be fulfilled at the latest in early July 2003. Specifically, many of the elements of the
PIM, especially with respect to administrative, procurement and accounting procedures already
exist, having been developed under the PPF. With respect to implementation arrangements,
including for the matching-grant, minor changes to the procedure manual of previous project are
needed before being integrated into the PIM. A consultant has been hired to complete the
missing details. The financial management of the PPF was good and the required accounting
system exists, and will be transferred from APIX to the PMU. The auditors of the project have
been recruited and their contract for the audit of end-2003 accounts is expected to be signed by
mid-May 2003. The Steering Committee has been nominated by the Minister of Finance and will
be considered fully operational after it has met at least once. The first meeting is scheduled for
early June 2003, following Board approval of the present project. The draft procurement plan for
the first year of the project has been prepared and was reviewed at appraisal. Since the draft was
prepared in December 2002, it was agreed that this plan would be updated and resubmitted prior
to effectiveness, in order to reflect slippage and/or advancement of certain actions. The
recruitment of key PMU staff has been launched and is expected to be completed by mid-June
2003. Finally, by letter dated April 3, 2003, the Government has submitted a detailed private
sector policy statement highlighting the policy and institutional context in which the project will
operate..
0. Compliance with Bank Policies
[Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Iradj A. Alikhani              Demba Ba                        o      In Mclntir
Team Leader                    Sector Manager/Director         Country Manager/Director
- 36 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SENEGAL: Private Investment Promotion Project
_i i e r  a   .              ey     r   i      ,,- ,|Datk Collecti-    Stategy |      - *.-
1HierarcIJyo0f Objectye-          i- Anclicators,          4  t'--.~        ~, t71CiitIiiliwi4                   ,
Sector-related CAS Goal:     Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:     (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Increased pnvate investment and  Achieve private investmnent of at Macro-economnic reports.
exports.                    least 8% of GDP by year 2007.
Trade statistics
Project Development          Outcome / Impact             Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   Indicators:
Help create conditions that  Additional 20,000 formal jobs  Statistical reports       Macro-econornic stability
stimulate a sustained increase in  created
private investment and achieve                            FIAS updates and investrnent  Direct jobs created by the
the 8 % GDP growth target    APIX and postal institutions are  clirate surveys        project lead to "indirect" job
througb an improved investment financially sustainable                                creation of 1:2
climate, greater pnvate                                   Audits
participation in economic    One million tourists visit Senegal  udt
activities, and policy and sector  each year                                          Government ensures sufficient
reforms,.                                                 Stakeholder feedback        budgetary resources for
Rural famnilies are less dependent                       funding post office, telecom
on groundnuts as a pnmary                                 sector, pension, APIX and
source of income                                          groundnut sector
Investment climate in Senegal                             Agricultural diversification
compares favorably with                                   strategy is successful
middle-income countries
All persons in the country have a                         Measures complementary to
telephone connection within 5                             the project are imnplemented
km of their residence
Sustained political
Govemance of the pension                                  comrmtment to PSD reform
scheme brought to intemational
best practice standards and                               Tourism master plan is
reserves meet standard nomis. At                          implemented
the same time, administrative
efficiency has improved
(reduction of 20 percent in the
ratio of operational costs to
revenues.
Output from each            Output Indicators:            Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Investment Climate has
improved
- 37 -



1.0 Legal and Judicial    1.1.1 Sector Expenditure  Legislation              Government remains cornitted
Environment has irnproved  Program prepared         Supervision reports      to judicial reform
1.1.2 Anti-money laundering
legislation is promulgated                          Capacity building for judicial
1.1.3 A mechanism for                              system takes place
appeals is established,
including resolution for
disputes with customs and the
arbitration center is
operational
1.1.4 Trademark legislation,
including intellectual property
rights, is adopted by mid-term
review
2.0 Business Environment has
improved
2.1 Administrative barriers for 2.1.1 New procedures and  Legislation        Government remains comitted
investors has been reduced  institutions for land   Supervision reports      to land reform
distribution will be introduced: Updated FIAS/RPED study
(i) by mid-term review, time  IMF Reports           Government remains comitted
taken to allocate land will be                     to reducing barriers and
reduced from 467 days to 250                        welcoming foreign investors
days; (ii) by end-project, it                      ("open door policy")
will be reduced to 100 days
2.1.2 Harmonized and
simplified corporate
registration procedures will be
adopted: time to register and
obtain operation licenses will
be (i) reduced from 96 days to
60 days by mid-term review
and (ii) to 30 days be
end-project
2.1.3 Procedure to issue
foreign work permits and
identification cards in less than
2 months in place by end-2003
2.1.4 Investmnent Code will be
implemented by end-project,
eliminating most exemptions
2.1.5 At least 3 sector codes
will be adopted including the
mining code
2.1.6 Entry and operational
procedures in the tourism,
industry, leather and artisinal
sectors will be simplified.
2.2 New tax reform will be  2.2.1 Tax exception regimes
implemented               will be revised by June 2005                        Government remains comitted
2.2.2 Tax reform, in line with                      to tax reform & eliminating
Government's action plan,
-38 -



rent-seeking activities
based on METR study, will be
implermented and METR
reduced to 35 percent by
mnid-term review and to 25
percent by the end of the
project
2.2.3 Tourism taxes & levies,
allocation of cultural royalties,
vocational training taxes will
be either eliminated or
redirected towards the
intended purposes by
mid-term review
2.2.4 MIS System-at DGID is
strengthened
3.0 Trade will be facilitated  3.1.1 Airport will meet safety  Supervision missions  Government remains comitted
through improved Airport   & handicap standards as per                          to "Gateway" concept of
Operations and Customs     Category 1 requirements;                             facilitating passengers and
clearance                  3.1.2 Customs will converge                           cargo
towards IS09000 certification
3.1.3 Physical inspection of
containers will be less than
20% of total by end-project
4.0 Infrastructure regulation
has improved
4.1. Capacity building within  4.1.1 Eight training courses                      The courses wiUl be carried out
the newly created regulatory  will be provided in an effort to                   and the ACBF will continue
agencies continues         improve regulatory capacity                          after the project stops
financing
5.0 Private-public dialog is
vibrant
5.1 Effective private-public  5.1.1 A forum will be
consultative process remains  organized, at least once a year,
in place                   to discuss private sector issues
5.1.2 A formal mechanism,
remains in place to ensure
continuous dialog
Private Participation is
Facilitated and
Competitiveness Enhanced
6.0 Investment Facilitation is
Supported
6.1 Effective and efficient  6.1.1 APIX annual business  Quarterly progress report,  APIX able to manage its
investment promotion agency  plans are implemented    supervision report, M[GA   mnandate.
-39 -



is operational            6.1.2 one job is created for  assessment, client surveys and
every $1,000 spent by     operational audits.
mid-term review and reduced
to $500 by end-project
(10,000 permanent jobs in
total)
6.1.3 At least 5 key
infrastructure studies have
been carried out
6.2 Firm learning, skills
acquisition and technological
and managerial knowledge are 6.2.1 Matching grant is
enhanced                  sustainable
6.2.2 By end-project, 3,000
jobs have been created
6.2.3 The change in turnover
for beneficiaries, as a
percentage of manufacturing
output is greater than 1.10 (an
increase in 10 percent)
6.2.4 Within the context of a
case study, 80 percent of the
objectives proposed for the
matching grant will be
6.3 Capacity of Support   achieved
Institutions and Private
Associations is Enhanced  6.3.1 Sound business plans
are developed and
implementation has begun for
ADEPME, SODIDA and
6.4 Monitoring System of the UNAQUA
remaining PE portfolio is in
place                     6.4.1 Impact assessment of
post pnvatization is completed
6.4.2 Permanent entity,
capable of the financial
oversight of public entitites is
in place
Sector Development is
Stimulated and Policy
Reform Implemented
7.1 A sustainable pension
system is inaplemented    7.1.1 First phase reform action Quarterly progress report,  Stakeholders willing to
plan implemented by mid-term supervision report and  continue seeking high
review                     operational audits        standards of excellence and
7.1.2 Financial restructuring                        see reforms through.
completed (financial audit of  Studies
the two plans and a review of
fiscal costs and implications of Financial and Operational
merging the two pension    Audits                    There is no resistance to
programs has been completed)                         gradual ierger of FNR with
7.1.3 Second Phase reform  World Bank Supervision    the IPRES
action plan adopted and    Reports
implemented by end of the                            Sufficient investment
- 40 -



project.                                           opportunities
8.0 Telecommunications
Reform and Development of
the Information Technology
Sector
8.1 Telecommunications   8.1.1 Institutional                                 Government remnains
sector strategy has been  responsibilities have been                         committed to expanding
implemented               clarified                                          telecom services and diluting
8.1.2 Telecom monopolies                           itself out of commercial
have been termninated                              activities
8.1.3 A second national
operator license has been
issued                                              Sufficient private sector
8.1.4. Teledensity doubled                         interest for a new license.
8.2 An appropriate legal and  8.2.1 The adopted telecom                      Government enforces
regulatory frarnework has been legislation will be reviewed                  regulation adopted for the
established               and necessary amendments                           sector
prepared.
Legislation on development
of electronic commerce and
protection of industrial and
intellectual property will be
prepared
8.2.3 SAT3 bandwidth
accessible on comnpetitive
terrms to aDl telecomnmunication
providers
8.3.1 A human resource
development and training plan
will be prepared and
implemented
8.3 A regulatory agency has  8.3.2 A financial and
been established          management information
system implemented
8.3.3 Spectrum control and
management equipment to
ensure an effective and
optimal use of spectrum
resources procured
8.3.4 Technical regulation
tools prepared and
implemented
8.4 Access to rural and   8.4.1 The rural access                              Private sector interest in rural
remote communities will be  strategy implemented                              connextivity and mechanism
improved                  8.4.2 A sound and                                  put in place by Government to
- 41-



comprehensive business plan                        allocate rural fund resources
for a pilot project prepared                        adequate
8.4.3 A database for ART
designed and implemented
8.4.4 At least 50%? of the
ART staff working on the rural
program trained
8.44 At least 500 new rural
localities are connected
8.5.1 The legal and
8.5 Development of ICT will regulatory framework for the
be supported              development of ICT
established
8.5.2 One or two ICT flagship
applications implemented
9.0 Postal sector reform will 9.1.1 Service delivery
go to the next level to ensure  improved (doubling of letters
sustainability            per-capita, elimination of the
stock of financial liabilities)
9.1.2 Corporation restructured
and is financially sustainable
9.1.3 Business plan
implemented
9.1.4 Sector policy
developed and implemented
(liberalization agenda)
9.1.5 Market study
completed
9.1.6 Corporate strategy on
development of financial
services elaborated
9.1.7 Financial structure of
the post established as
subsidiary and strengthened
lO. The quality of the tourism  10.1.1 Tourism sector
product is improved, while  strategy has been formulated
ensuring conservation of  by end-2004
scarce resources          10.1.2 Master plans for 4
proposed sites have been
completed by mid-term review
10.1.3 Tourism Office has
been created and is operational
10.1.4 At least 6 studies have
been completed by end-2005
and 12 studies completed by
end-project
10.1.5 An advisory group of
experts has been appointed.
10.1.6 Investment conference
has taken place
-42 -



11. Music industry is     11.1.1Legislative framework
developed                is put into place to (i) protect
rightholders against music
piracy; (ii) royalties are being
paid to musicians; (iii)
strengthen the rights of rural
musicians and artists; and (iv)
lay the groundwork for
international digital commerce
11.1.2 Local music managers
and technicians will be
trained, particularly the
domestic capacity in repair
and maintenance of music
instruments
11.1.3 A pre-feasibility study
for the development of
electronic commerce will be
carried out
11.1.4 Musical archives are in
place
12. Edible Oil Sector will be  12.1.1 SONACOS divestiture
reformed                  has been completed
12.1.2 Distortions eliminated
or reduced
12.1.3 Diversification strategy
is being implemented
Project Implementation and
Capacity Building
13.0 High quality project  13.1.1 Effective project  Supervision and audits  Good integration and
implementation will be ensured management and coordination. Procurement plan  coordination with project
13.1.2 Timely budgeting,  Mid-term review.          cornponents.
reporting and auditing.
13.1.3 High quality financial
management and procurement
Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                          Outputs)
Investment Climate has    (US$7.6 mnillion, of which
improved                 US$7.0 million is financed by
IDA)
1.0 Legal and Judicial                             Disbursement reports       Counterpart funds are
Environment has improved                            Progress reports         available
* Consultants                                     Supervision mission reports
* Training              US$1.0 million            Consultant reports        PIU is capable of managing
the program on a timely basis,
-43 -



particularly with procurement
issues
Complex design does not
hinder implementation
Demnand for technical and
learning skills by private
sector remains sufficient
2.0 Business Environment has US$3.0 million
improved
2.1 Administrative barriers for (US$1.5 nillion)
investors has been reduced
o Consultants
o Training
o Goods & Equipment
o Minor Civil Works
(US$1.5 million)
2.2 New tax reformn will be
implemented
o Consultants
o Training
o Goods & Equipment
o Minor Civil Works
3.0 Trade will be facilitated  US$2.0 million
3.1 Customs and Port      (US$1.0 million)
o Consultants
o Training
o Goods & Equiprment
3.2 Airport               (US$1.0million)
o Consultants
o Training
o Goods & Equipment
o Minor Civil Works
4.0 Infrastructure regulation (US$0.5 million)
has improved
4.1. Capacity building within
the newly created regulatory
agencies continues
o Consultants
o Training
o Equipment
5.0 Private-public dialog is
vibrant
-44 -



5.1 Effective private-public  (US$ 0.5 million)
consultative process remains
in place
* Recurrent costs
* Consultants
* Goods and Equipment
Private Participation is  (US$14.5 million, of which
Facilitated and            US$11.5 million financed by
Competitiveness Enhanced  IDA)
6.0 Investment Facilitation is
Supported
6.1 A first rate investment  (US$7.0 million)
promotion institutional
arrangement is established
* Consultants
* Training
* Goods & Equipment
6.2 Firm learning, skills  (US$3 million)
acquisition and technological
and managerial knowledge are
enhanced (matching grant)
* Grants (50%)
6.3 Capacity of Support   (US$1 million)
Institutions and Private
Associations is Enhanced
* Consultants
* Training
* Goods & Equipment
6.4 Monitoring System of the (US$0.5 million)
remaining PE portfolio is in
place
* Consultants
* Training
* Goods & Equipment
Sector Development is     (US$ 28.5 million of which
Stimulated and Policy     US$21.8 million financed by
Reform Implemented        IDA)
7.1 A sustainable pension  (US$3 million)
system is implemented
* Consultants
* Training
* Goods & Equipment
-45 -



8.0 Telecommunications    (US$6.5 million)
Reform and Development of
the Information Technology
Sector
8.1 An appropriate legal and (US$0.5 mnillion)
regulatory framework has been
established
o Consultants
o Training
o Goods & Equipment
8.2 A regulatory agency has  (US$1.5 rnillion)
been established
o Consultants
o Training
o Goods & Equipmnent
8.3 Access to rural and remote (US$3.5 rnillion)
communities will be improved
o Consultants
o Training
o Goods & Equipment
8.4 Award a new cellular and (US$0.5 million)
fixed line license
8.5 Development of ICT will (US$0.5 million)
be supported
o Consultants
o Training
o Goods & Equiprent
9.0 Postal sector reform will (US$ 6.5 million)
go to the next level to ensure
sustainability
o Consultants
o Training
o Goods & Equipment
1O. The quality of the tourism (US$ 3.6 million)
product is improved, while
ensuring conservation of
scarce resources
o Consultants
o Training
o Goods & Equipment
-46 -



11. Music industry is    (US$1.2 million)
developed
* Consultants
* Training
* Goods & Equipment
12 Vegetable Oil Sector will (US$1 million)
be reformed
* Consultants
* Training
* Goods & Equipment
Project Implementation and (US$ 6.1 million, of which
Capacity Building         5.7 million rmanced by IDA)
13.0 High quality project
implementation will be
ensured
* Consultants, including
audits
* Training
* Goods & Equipment
* Recurrent Costs
* PPF repayment
-47 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SENEGAL: Private Investment Promotion Project
Detailed Description of Project Components
The objective of the Government's reform program, underpinned by the PRSP, the private sector
development strategy, and other strategic analysis, is to create the conditions to sustain high per-capita
GDP growth of at least 5 percent per-annum. The activities financed by the project, which support these
objectives, are summarized below.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$7.60 million
Improving the Investment Climate (US$7.6 million, of which US$7.0 million Is financed by IDA)
The objective of this component is to improve the investment environment, through legal capcity
building, a better business environment, enhanced capacity to regulate infrastructure and resolve
post-privatization issues, and by reactivating the public/private consultative process. The credit will
finance consulting services and studies, goods and equipment, training and minor civil works.
Legal and Judicial Strengthening (US$1.0 million financed by IDA)
During the past five years Senegal has implemented reforms that have helped improve the legal
environment for enterprises. These include modernization of business laws and their harmonization with
OHADA, the establishment of an arbitration mechanism, and capacity building in the judiciary. In spite
of the important reforms introduced, stakeholders recognize that additional minor reforms and capacity
buidling are needed to improve access of the poor to the judiciary and the services rendered by the
judiciary to the private sector. The government strategy calls for improving service access and delivery
though sector expenditure programs based on outcome-oriented budgeting.
The project would finance the work needed to prepare a multiyear sector expenditure program and its
integration into the national budget. This would include updating the 1999 public expenditure review,
formulating medium- and long-term service standards, output and outcome indicators, costing and
identifying implementation capacity building requirements. Financing of the program would be outside
the scope of the project; such financing would be funded by donors, including the World Bank through
other operations.
Other actions supported under the project to improve the legal environment include: (a) promulgation of
anti-money-laundering legislation; (b) establishment of a mechanism for appeals and resolution of
disputes with customs; (c) adoption of trademark and other legislation, especially to protect the
Senegalese music industry (to be financed under the music subcomponent); and (d) capacity-building
actions initiated under the previous IDA project, including the support to the arbitration center, training
of legal professionals, and assistance in drafting economic legislation.
Business Environment Enhancement (US$3.0 million financed by IDA)
Administrative Barriers (US$1.5 million financed by IDA). In 1999, the Government with the support of
the donor community and in partnership with FIAS, carried out a study on barriers which was followed
by reforms aimed at streamlining the administrative barriers faced by investors(see table below). The
- 48 -



HIAS study included a survey of 184 private firms that identified constraints to private sector
development. The project would help alleviate many of the constraints identified.
Table A2.1: Key Constraints to Private Sector Development (% of enterprises surveyed)
Obstacles                             Total        Major           Minor
Administrative                        71.7          29.3            42.4
Taxation                              71.2          45.7            25.5
Informal and/or unfair competition    67.9          51.1            16.8
Access to finance and cost            67.4          53.0            14.4
Poor Infrastructure                   65.6          35.5            30.1
Corruption                            57.6          29.1            28.5
Macroeconomic environment             56.5          25.5            31.0
Access to land                        54.9          29.9            25.0
Political Instability                 54.9          21.7            27.2
Source: survey (APIX and FIAS), 2002
The FIAS study was updated in 2002 and focused on administrative barriers. The administrative barriers
that private investors face when establishing and operating a business in Senegal include: (a) general
entry approvals; (b) access to land, site development, and connection to utilities; and (c) operational
requirements. Reforms undertaken during the past three years have led to improvements general entry
approvals and operational requirements, although the problems with access to land have increased. Also,
while measures implemented have resulted in reduced response time, a number of actions recommended
in 1999 have not yet been implemented.
Table A2.2: Days required to complete administrative procedures in Africa
Land0  CU CU 0_ C_ _ _C _  _      0          _  _   U _ _ 
Time (business  3 4   _      25   70 34 3  1 1C _         I  795 _    _23
days)                                         U 5 
N
Oerational
r_quirements  _429 2'    30 39 12,E 282  _   63_   3C _  2(  45    70    327
TOTAL          492 567 = 319 16 524 554 479  1 = 43: 7310258  19( 1027 _ 634  205 429
Source: FIAS
The project will support continued administrative and regulatory reforms and improvements in
public/private interface. The project would support the activities listed below (through consulting
services, training, provision of goods and equipment, and minor civil works repair):
*   To address the difficulty in the attribution of public land the project would support: (i) legislative
reforms and the progressive introduction of transparent market mechanisms for land allocation; and
(ii) capacity building to improve the performance of key institutions, notably the Mnistry of
- 49 -



Finance's Directorate of Taxes and Public Assets (DGID), which may also outsource certain of its
functions to the private sector. Furthermore, private transactions would be facilitated through
appropriate deregulation and removal of approval requirements.
O   The project would also support the implementation of measures aimed at reducing general and sector
specific formalities including: (i) a rationalization of the investment code and related procedures; (ii)
harmonization and simplification of registration requirements; (iii) easier issuance to foreigners of
work permits and identification cards; and (iv) clarification and simplification of operational
procedures in certain sectors through adoption of the mining code, elimination of input authorization
for industry, and abolition of licensing for tanneries.
O   Experience with administrative barrier reforms has shown that the process is iterative because as
known issues are addressed new ones arise. US$500,000 has thus been set aside to help address new
administrative constraints as they arise.
Tax Reform (US$1.5 million financed by IDA) - The aforementioned admi'nistrative barriers study
complements an earlier study on the marginal effective tax rate which concluded that investment in
Senegal was deterred by excessively high tax rates combined with a multitude of taxes and/or user fees
resulting in the most complex tax regimes in the sub-region. The tax-related administrative barriers and
complexity of the tax regime have resulted in system that lacks transparency and encourages rent seeking.
Many of the tax reforms identified do not individually have a significant impact on fiscal revenues, but
the reform package has to be sequenced so as not to undermine broad macroeconomic stability.
The project would support activities needed to design and implement tax reform (equipment, consultants
and training, as well as some possible minor civil works). The DGID would be the primary beneficiary of
the institutional capacity building,  which would be used mainly to strengthen its management
information system (MIS) and related management systems. The project will also provide technical
assistance in the design and implementation of the following reforms: (i) rationalization of the exception
regimes (elimination of certain exemptions and consolidation of other benefits, especially for exporters);
(ii) general income tax reforms in the Government's action plan based on the METR study; and (iii) the
elimination and/or redirection of minor, but important taxes, fees and levies that would help address the
needs of certain sectors and private activities. Areas of focus would include tourism taxes and levies,
allocation of cultural royalties, the vocational training tax (CFCE set at 4.5 percent of formal sector
wages) etc.
Trade Facilitation (US$2.0 million financed by IDA)
Customs (US$1.0 million financed by IDA). Under the proposed project, customs will continue to
develop and implement a reform program involving the re-engineering of its corporate structure and
culture to become a trade facilitator. Trade related processes and procedures will be re-engineered to
bring the quality of custom services up to international standards, and customs and port cargo clearance
processes converge towards ISO 9000. Special attention will be directed to: (a) streamlining of
processing to reduce clearance time for both export (initially) and import cargo, and cut down physical
inspection of cargo to less than 20 percent of the containers going through customs; (b) introduction of
information technology infrastructure; and (c) continued work with the private sector to facilitate trade
and commerce through electronic filing etc. The proposed project would also finance the ongoing
modernization of customs administration and the implementation of its strategic business plan covering
changes in the regulatory, operational procedures and human resources, and the upgrading of its
information systems.
- 50 -



Airport (US$1.0 million financed by IDA). The project will support the govemment's efforts to
strengthen the gateway to Senegal via air transport, in particular the Dakar airport. Attention will be
directed to streamlining of processing and reduction of clearance time for passengers and cargo by: (a)
training inunigration and police employees; (b) relocating the information desk to ensure easy access to
passengers; (c) updating technology infrastructure; and (d) upgrading equipment to facilitate movement
of passengers and baggage. The project will also assist the ongoing modernization of airport facilities, in
particular by financing: (a) a lift for handicapped persons to facilitate entry into the airplanes; (b)
renovating the luggage belt and purchase an additional carrier; (c) relocating the security entrance and
purchase an additional x-ray machine to reduce back-up at the waiting area; (d) upgrading the computer
system for the registration of visitors; and (e) minor repairs (including signs for passenger information,
ordering the arrival area for ground transportation).
Infrastructure Regulation (US$0.5 million financed by IDA)
As private participation in the infrastructure sector (utilities, as well as transport) expands, regulation
becomes critical. The Government has decided to adopt legislation for establishment of regulatory
agencies in key sectors (notably energy and telecommunications), and in 2002, it adopted legislation that
helps ensure cross-sectoral consistency in regulation. There are a number of sources of financing for-
capacity building in the newly-created regulatory agencies including for the telecommunications
regulator under the telecommunications reform subcomponent of this project. This subcomponent would
focus on sustaining achievements in regulatory capacity building, and focus on targeted training and
hands-on advice for regulators of all sectors, although some basic training is also envisaged.
Private-Public Consultative Process (US$0.5 million financed by IDA)
Since the early 1990s, Senegal has benefited from a relatively effective public-private dialogue. Such
exchanges helped in the preparation of the govemment's private sector development strategy, and
provided a forum of discussion of sector issues, although streamlining efforts during the past three years
resulted in the government abandoning some of the initial channels of consultation. At the request of
Government, over the past two years, the World Bank (through the proposed project PPF) and other
donors supported the development of new channels that include the establishment of a Presidential
Investors' Advisory Council. The organization of the Investors' Council meetings has been delegated to
the Strategic Committee (Board) of APIX (composed of three representatives each of the private and the
public sector). This Committee will likely oversee much of the future private-public dialogue. The
objective of the subcomponent is to ensure that an effective private-public consultative process remains
in place. The project will support the operations of a small secretariat, attached to APIX's Strategic
Commnittee. Specifically, the project would support operational costs of the secretariat and would
provide it with the means to carry out diagnostic studies, support and establish subgroups, organize
forums and facilitate the pohcy dialogue.
- 51 -



Project Component 2 - US$14.50 million
Facilitating Private Participation and Enhancing Competitiveness (UJS$14.5 million, of which
US$11.5 million is financed by IDA)
The objective of the private participation component is to stimulate foreign investment in infrastructure,
export-oriented firms and other sectors, and broaden private participation in economic activities; and
increase the productivity of the local pnvate sector. The activities listed below will be supported.
Investnent Facilitation Support (US$7.0 million financed by IDA)
Prior to 1999, the institutional set up in Senegal for investment facilitation was fragmented and largely
ineffective. This led the Government to establish a promotion agency in 2000, APIX, integrating
international best practice. The World Bank Group (the World Bank FIAS, MIGA and WBI) and other
donors such as USAID, have provided support in the design and establishment of the agency. APIX's
responsibilities include: (a) investment promotion and investor targeting and aftercare; (b) monitonng
and evaluation, including through computerized investor tracking systems; (c) oversight over the
one-stop shop for local investors (the one stop shop and the simplification of procedures have resulted
substantial reductions in time to fulfill requirements); (d) development of a BTO framework and
conducting feasibility studies for private participation in infrastructure; and (e) facilitating and providing
inputs into the private-public sector dialogue.
APIX's board (Executive Committee) consists of a respected chairman, top private sector executives and
qualified public sector representatives. The institutions' 2001 accounts were audited and received an
unqualified opinion. APIX's 2003-2007 business plan is well prepared, and will be updated annually.
The plan describes options to ensure financial and institutional sustainability beyond the medium-term,
and includes detailed input, output and outcome indicators to measure its success. The plan envisages
a partnership with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs under which embassies in target countries would act
as the first interface with potential foreign investors. The project will help APIX reach its strategic
objectives by financing the following activities:
o   APIX's business plan (US$5.0 million). The traditional approach towards institutional capacity
building has been to finance the necessary inputs such as equipment and training in the expectation
that outputs and outcomes will be attained. The project will experiment with a different approach,
focusing on results. The project will thus finance a declining proportion (70, 60, 50, 40 and 30
percent) of APIX's annual budget (excluding infrastructure studies and extra-ordinary expenditures)
of US$2 million on the basis of the delivery by the agency of inputs, outputs and outcomes defined in
the business plan.
o Strategic studies (infrastructure, institutional, legal, US$1.0 million). The project will support the
preparation of studies to help determine the viability of infrastructure projects identified as priorities
by Government, and which will be used to encourage private interest in those projects. Some
priority preliminary studies have been financed under the PPF (airport and toll-road) which have
enabled stakeholders better identify issues. The project would finance about 20 percent of the
infrastructure studies identified for the next five years, some of which will be linked to
NEPAD-related priorities.
o   Support to Ministry of Foreign Affairs (US$1.0 million). The project would finance general
economic and specific training for the staff of embassies and the Ministry. It would also help the
- 52 -



Ministry develop a computerized network (intranet) that would improve connectivity between
embassies and with the Ministry, as well as web-based interfaces with investors.
Matching-Grant Scheme (US$3 million)
During the second half of the 1990s Senegal implemented a matching grant program, which made
important contributions to private enterprises in terms of technology transfer and job-creation(3,500 jobs
created). The program administration was cumbersome, although the most important problem was that
the program was not financially sustainable. In spite of its shortcomings, there was strong demand for the
matching grant program, and commitments and disbursements tended to double each year, and demand
has continued to grow. The proposed project will contribute US$3 million (excluding management
covered under component 4) for the establishment of a second generation matching grant scheme. To
avoid shortcomings of the past, the scheme will include the following features:
*   Sustainability to be ensured through the reallocation of a portion of the "contribution" for training
levied on firms to a revolving fund.
*   Substantial stakeholder participation. The scheme will no longer work directly with beneficiaries;
requests will be screened by various accredited intermediaries (public support institutions and private
associations).
*   Strong monitoring and evaluation built-in from the outset with respect to impact of activities and
ex-post screening and accreditation of consultants.
*   Simplified disbursement procedures based on best-practice in Africa (beneficiaries carry out the
necessary procurement, and financing is based on reimbursement of validated expenses).
*   Use of standard coefficients as ceilings for standard assignments and to help determine unit costs.
Capacity building in support institutions and private associations (US$1 milion)
Public institutions and private associations are expected to contribute to the implementation of Senegal's
private sector development strategy. In addition to being essential intermediaries for the matching grant
schemes and other programs, these institutions (ADEPME, SODIDA, UNAQUA, etc.) provide other
services to their members. The project would finance capacity building in key associations to: (i) help
ensure that the institutions are able to play their facilitation role under the matching-grant component;
and (ii) develop sound business plans to enhance their sustainability.
Support to Divestiture and Oversight of Public Entities (US$0.5 million).
The World Bank has supported the divestiture process in Senegal since 1984. Support has been
channeled through a unit which has been attached to various government Ministries (most recently the
Ministry of Finance). This unit is responsible for ensuring financial oversight over public enterprises and
to bring enterprises to the point of privatization. While results during certain periods, especially since
1998, have fallen short of expectations, the bulk of the privatization agenda has been completed. State
ownership remains in three types of enterprises: (i) entities that are not deemed suitable for privatization
in the foreseeable future (national radio and TV, post office, etc), and a few companies whose
privatization has been launched but not completed; (ii) commercial and industrial enterprises that have
been privatized, but in which Government retains a share; and (iii) large entities where divestiture will
take place as part of a sector reform program (energy, vegetable oil etc.). Support for the main
- 53 -



divestitures is included under the divestiture component; under this component the project would finance
advisory services to implement monitoring systems of the remainder of the PE portfolio and to help
complete some of the ongoing divestitures, notably the sale of minority shares. The project would
finance advisory services and a limited amount of equipment. To ensure sustainability, this support
through a permanent department of the Ministry of Finance.
Project Component 3 - US$ 28.50 million
Stimulating Sector Investment and Implementing Policy Reforim (US$28.5 millon, of which
US$21.8 million isfinanced by IDA)
The objective of this component is to promote sub-sector reforms that would: (i) directly stimulate
growth in areas where Senegal benefits from untapped potential; (ii) improve the policy environment in
other areas that affect ability of the private sector to operate effectively and competitively; and (iii)
free-up public and private resources, which would be available to fund pro-poor private initiatives and,
indirectly through mobilization of private resources, finance private investment. The project would help
achieve these objectives by financing consulting services, goods and equipment, training and minor civil
works (repairs). The implementation of reforms in pensions, the edible oil sub-sector and the postal
system would need to be complemented by a significant amount of financial restructuring that would be
financed in part through the proposed Private Sector Adjustment Credit.
Pensions Reform (US$3 milion financed by IDA)
There are two pension plans operating in Senegal: the Fonds National de Retraite (FNR) which was
established to cover the majority of civil servants, the arned forces, police, fire-officers, teachers and
magistrates (66,000 contributors) and the Institution de Prevoyance Retraite de Senegal (IPRES) which
covers private-sector salaried workers although approximately one sixth of the public sector employees
are also covered. The number of contributors to beneficiaries in both systems are very low, and
immediate measures need to be taken to ensure sustainability of future pensions. The Government has
thus assigned priority to pension reform.
The project would support the development of a long-term strategy for pensions which includes a greater
role for private pension provision. The proposed project would finance (i) a financial audit of the two
plans; (ii) a comprehensive review of the fiscal costs and implications of merging the two pension
programs; (iii) a comprehensive actuarial study to develop the revenue streams and devise a program for
benefit payments; (iv) an investment strategy, given the limited investment opportunities in the country;
(v) coverage expansion possibilities (vi) funded system design and supervision; (vii) computers and
software; (viii) twinning arrangements; (ix) workshops; and (x) training. The project will not finance the
financial restructuring of IPRES, estimated US$20-30 million, which is expected to be financed by the
Govemment, and through future IDA operations.
Telecommunication Reform and Development of the Information Technology Sector (US$6.5 million
financed by IDA)
The Government implemented a first round of telecommunications reform in 1994, which led to a
progressive liberalization of the sector and to the successful privatization of the public monopoly
SONATEL in 1997. Telecommunications services have significantly improved as a result of the reforms
(fixed teledensity is above 2 percent from 1 percent by privatization and mobile penetration through two
operators, is above 4.4 percent and tariffs are among the lowest in the sub region). After considerable
delays, in 2001 the Government revised the regulatory framework and created an independent regulator
(ART). In addition, the Government plans to open all market segments to competition at the end of the
- 54 -



exclusivity period of SONATEL on basic services, in July 2004; to liberalize as soon as practicable the
market in localities not served by SONATEL, and to license a second national operator, who would
provide both cellular and fixed line services.
Stakeholders identified key remaining issues in the context of project preparation, and these will be
addressed under the sub-component through the provision of technical assistance and training. Key issues
identified were the need to: (i) establish an appropriate legal and regulatory and institutional framework;
(ii) address the digital divide between urban and rural communities; and to (iii) clarify institutional
responsibility for the development of the ICT agenda. Activities supported under the sub-component are
descnbed below.
Establishment of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework (US$500,000). The project will
support updating the legal and regulatory framework, as described below.
* Review of the adopted legislation, identification and preparation of the amendments and secondary
legislation needed to modernize and update its regulatory framework with a view to establish a
conducive business environment for private sector investment.
* Preparation of legislation that addresses the development of electronic commerce (e.g., electronic
signature, electronic payments, encryption etc.) and the protection of industrial and intellectual
property (IPR).
*   Support for the establishment of a policy unit in the Ministry in charge of telecommunications and
ICT. This will include the preparation and implementation of an institutional strengthening plan that
will spell out the technical assistance and training requirements to ensure that the unit will have the
competencies in sector policy formulation and implementation.
Establishment of a regulatory agency (ART) (US$1.5 million). The project will support the development
and implementation of an institutional strengthening plan for ART, covering the following areas:
* Provision of follow-up support through retention of advisers on key regulatory issues (e.g.,
competition, interconnection, internet service provision, convergence issues, quality of' service,
technical standards, implementation of the liberalization schedule, consumer protection, and other
issues defined in the business plan) and procedures for the conduct of ART's main activities such as
dispute resolution, licensing, consultations, and gearings. More specifically, assistance will be
provided to draft: (i) internal regulatory procedures relating to control, dialogue with public operators
and sanctions; (ii) reference documents describing in detail the standard on activity-based accounting
to be developed by public telecommunications operators; and (iii) technical regulations and detailed
procedures guiding the determination of tariffs control and price cap, including a toolkit for tariffs
regulators.
* Preparation and implementation of a human resource development and training plan, including study
tours, and possible twinning arrangements.
* Design and acquisition of a financial and management information system, including: (i) provision
technical assistance in the design and implementation of an intranet for ART; and (ii) provision of
technical assistance in the design, procurement and installation of an integrated MIS.
* Acquisition of spectrum control and management equipment to ensure an effective and optimal use
- 55 -



of spectrum resources within the context a liberalized telecommunications market. The support
would cover: (i) technical assistance to prepare an optimal tariff structure for spectrum resources
managed by ART; (ii) preparation of tender documents and procurement of spectrum management
and control equipment; and (iii) design and technical assistance provided to implement a small lab
for the certification of terminals and equipment.
Promote rural and remote communities access to telecommunicationts services (US$3.5 million). The
project will support the implementation of a rural access strategy. The Government recognizes that rural
services might have less attractive financial returns, and intends to use a market mechanism to finance a
capital subsidy for a private Rural Telecommunications Service (RTS) operator. The program will be
financed through contributions from operators to a Universal Access Fund (UAF), and seed capital
provided by the project (US$3.0 million), that will assist with the financing of the up-front investment
cost of the winning operators associated with serving the pilot rural areas. IDA funds are expected to be
matched on 50:50 basis with funds from the proceeds of the sale of new licenses or from fees paid by
existing operators. Once the modalities of the approach are refined, , the pilot will be extended to cover
additional areas in the country; in any case, the license will cover localities which are not served with the
objective of providing telecommunication services at a 5 Km walk for all citizens living within the
selected zone. After meeting the minimum rollout obligation of two public access lines per locality, the
RTS operator will be allowed to expand services. This approach is expected to meet government's
objectives to significantly bridge the information gap that is penalizing rural communities. The
following activities will be financed by the project:
o Preparation by a specialized international consultant of a business plan for the pilot project and the
tender documents including all legal documents.
o   Design and the implementation of a database for ART on rural telecommunications.
O   Technical assistance auction the rural telecommunications licenses, including road shows, packaging
of the tender documents, and advertisements.
o   Focused training and study tours for ART staff working on the rural program or for USF members.
The RTS capital subsidy will be paid according to the licensing terms agreed at the time of the award.
The key obligation by the RTS operator is the activation of a minimum of two public access lines in a
number of un-served localities listed on the tender documents. ART will monitor and certify the
compliance with network rollout and service obligations. It is expected that the subsidy will be in two
equal payments: the first payment will be made when service provision is initiated in the first 50 percent
of the listed localities, and the second payment will be made when service provision is initiated in the
remaining localities. For disbursement purposes, these will be direct payment requests submitted by the
financial management unit of the project according to the license contract terms. The detailed
arrangement will be prepared by the consultant during the preparation of the pilot. For the pilot program,
it is tentatively estimated that the capital subsidy amount will be around US$0.5 million.
Award of a new cellular and fixed line license (US$0.5 million). The project would finance the necessary
legal and advisory services to launch the new licenses and to negotiate and prepare the appropriate
changes to the existing concession contract and cellular licenses.
Support the development of ICT (US$0.5 million). The project would help the Government clarify the
institutional environment and establish an appropriate legal and regulatory framework that would foster
the development of ICT. A study could be carried out to identify the initiatives that would be financed
-56 -



by the project, which would also finance pilot initiatives defined during project implementation.
Postal Reforms (US$6.5 millionfinanced by IDA)
The post office in Senegal, the historical operator in the sector, plays an important economic and social
role in the country, which encompasses delivery of domestic mail over which it has a legal monopoly
(mail weighing up to 1 kg), and the provision of financial services (payment systems and savings books).
The international express mail is open to competition. The post office has been an autonomous public
corporation since 1995. Although it is supposed to be financially independent, in practice, it has not
achieved financial autonomy. Preliminary analysis (indicators below) show that, by regional standards,
the postal network is fairly well developed, but overall productivity is low. However, cross-country
analysis suggests that there is significant room for traffic increase, which would in turn lead to improved
financial performance.
Box A2. 1: Senegal Post Office - Key Indicators
Key Data
1,700 employees      Number of letter items handled annually 12.6 million
135 post offices     Monopoly on letter up to 1kg
1999          2000          2001 (projected) 2002 (projected)
Total revenues (CFAF Billion):  6.7        6.6
Deficit (CFAF Billion):     -13.8         -4.4          -0,2          -0,1
Traditional postal (mail, express mail, parcels) and financial services (checking accounts, savings books,
money orders, payments): postal represent about 3/4 of the revenues, financial services about 1/4.
Comparative Performnance (access, volumes, productivity)
Senegal       Ivory Coast   Gabon         Guinea
Km2/post office              1,500           1,750       5,140          3,900
Inhabitants/Post Office     72,000          88,200      23,300         129,400
Monopoly threshold (kg)       1.0             2.0         1.0            1.0
Letters/emnployee p.a.       7,919          26,728        9,841        25,585
Letters/inhabitants p.a.      0.66            1.48         5.63          0.36
Stakeholders, including government oversight Ministries (Finance and Prime Ministry), and the
corporation itself, are committed to undertaking comprehensive reforms. During project preparation,
with funding from the project PPF, a diagnostic study of the postal sector and operator was carried out
that confirmed the need for restructuring. In addition, a draft letter of postal sector policy was prepared.
The project would support the sector reforms and institutional capacity building required to help ensure
sustainability of postal activities, including improved service delivery through the doubling of letters
per-capita, the reduction/elimination of the stock of financial liabilities and financial equilibrium. More
specifically, the project would support and finance the reforms listed below through the provision of
advisory services, training and purchase of MIS and other equipment:
*   Development and implementation of a sector policy owned by stakeholders. The project will support
the updating of the 1995 law governing postal services, and the preparation of needed regulations.
The clearance of accumulated debt and arrears of postal financial services, which will be required to
make these services autonomous from the post office, and the arrears due by the State to the post
office would be part of the sector reform program but not be financed under the project. Financing is
-57 -



expected through the proposed Private Sector Adjustment Credit (to be presented to the Board in
FY04), other donors and the government budget.
o Acquiring better knowledge of the market. The project will finance a comprehensive market study
that will feedback into the corporate strategy.
o Formulating a corporate strategy and business plan. The project would finance the preparation of a
corporate strategy which will be based on the market study and a study carried out,two years ago,
including the translation of the corporate strategy into a business plan that identifies cash flows,
resources/expenses and investment rates of return through multi-year forecasts. The business plan
will provide the detailed indicators against which the performance of the subcomponent will be
assessed.
o Addressing the social dimension of the strategic turn-around. Management and stakeholders
recognize that a key factor success to the restructuring will be the re-training of staff in order to
infuse a market and corporate-oriented management style. In addition, postal services are
over-staffed and would need to shed about 200 employees. The project will finance the preparation
of compensation packages that are affordable and broadly in line with floors provided by the law,
with some potential flexibility for the least paid workers.
O Strengthening the financial structure. Globally, the post office inherited an unbalanced asset/liability
structure when it was created in 1995. The relatively low social capital of CFAF 2.9 billion (about
US$4.5 million) is partially explained by the fact that assets were not revalued at that time. The post
offices' investment and indebtedness capacity are thus significantly restricted and the balance sheet
does not fully reflect the situation of the corporation. The project would thus finance technical
assistance that would be the basis of an asset reevaluation exercise, and which would also include an
analysis of the working capital level needed by the enterprise to meet the operational needs of its
operations.
o Financing Priority Investments - Priority investments to be supported by the project include: (i)
production equipment and information systems needed not only to improve management capacity but
also to support the development of new products and services (tracing and tracking, electronic money
orders etc.); (ii) technical assistance to carry out in-depth market studies and prepare a
communication strategy, define strategic action plans to develop hybrid mail solutions, help
formulate needs in postal financial services IT applications, analyze training needs and suggest
training plans, prepare human resources redundancy plan, and provide upper management with
strategic advise and support to improve internal operational organization; and (iii) training programs
will be organized to meet the needs previously identified in the context of technical assistance.
Support to the Development of Tourism (US$3.6 million financed by IDA)
The Govemment is promoting tourism as a priority sector given its considerable potential as a source of
growth, and poverty reduction. The project would support the government strategy and finance the
activities listed below.
o Development of master plans of four designated sites. These plans would enable Government to
enhance the value of each of the areas and to create synergies between them to make them more
attractive for investors. These master plans will subsequently be integrated into Senegal's overall
tourism strategy.
o Formulation of tourism sector strategy in Senegal, which take into consideration the findings of the
master plans and is validated through a consultative process. Effective management of the tourism
- 58 -



sector requires that the public and private sector establish a wo;king partnership and that there be a
consultative process among stakeholders about the type of tourism to be developed and the method
by which the strategy will be implemented.
*   Support to a private body to be established whose mandate would be to: (i) create a forum for a
dialogue and cooperation between the public and private sectors; (ii) manage and help finance a
marketing and promotion campaign, and (iii) undertake or manage specific tasks such as providing
expert advice to Government and regional bodies, tourism-related research, etc.
*   Specialized studies (12 are planned) that will analyze ways in which the tourism sector can become a
catalyst for economic development and become environmentally, culturally and socially sustainable
will be undertaken.
*   Capacity Building for the Ministry of Tourism  will be financed to ensure that it can facilitate the
work of the master plans and to implement the recommendations derived from the studies.
*   An advisory group of experts (approximately three people) who be appointed to assist the Project
Leader to manage work being done will also be financed. These experts would visit Senegal for a
month each year to carry out a review of the work of the consultants engaged in the master plans,
marketing and promotion, capacity building, and studies.
* A national facilitator to manage the various activities of the subcomponent and to ensure that each
activity undertaken is sequenced appropriately and is delivered on time. This manager will be hired
for three years full time and for an additional two years part-time for a total of 50 months. He/she
will be part of the project implementation professionals.
Promotion of the Music Industry (US$1.2 million financed by IDA)
Senegal benefits from a rich cultural heritage, which is one of the factors that could reinforce the
development of the tourism sector. The music industry, which is part of this cultural heritage, enjoys
good visibility, has the potential to generate greater wealth and employment, and to propel the country
further into the international arena of "World Music." The Government is committed to realizing this
potential and thus is including the development of the music industry on its list of priorities. The main
limiting factor on the sales of music within Senegal -as within most of Africa--is open, widespread
piracy. The project would support the activities summarized below:
*   Completion of work on copyright legislation and related training and dissemination.
*   Formal training in intellectual property legislation at the Dakar University School of Law.
Financing under the project would train copyright legislation specialists and introduce a curmculum
in copyright legislation for Senegalese, as well as other countries' law students.
*   Short-term training of music managers and technicians. To develop a competitive music industry,
Senegal should develop a domestic capacity in repair and maintenance of music instruments. This
activity would be financed under the matching-grant component of the project mentioned below, and
includes short-termn training of managers and technicians.
*   National musical archives and cultural radio programs. Senegal is threatened with the loss of its
musical heritage through years of neglect of its national musical archives. The project will finance
-59 -



the rehabilitation of a building to house the national archives, training and technical support, and
assistance in the development and broadcast of radio programs.
o A pre-feasibility study for the development of electronic commerce has been undertaken in the
context of project preparation. The proposal is to establish a private commercial venture that would
allow for downloading of music via the internet. The project would finance the feasibility study,
some equipment, and technical assistance and training needed to identify the strategic partner and put
such a commercial venture in place.
Edible Oil Sector Reform (US$L.0 million financed by IDA)
About 30 percent of the Senegalese population part of their livelihood from the groundnut sector. The
liberalization efforts pursued by the Government in the 1990s, and more recently in 2001 with the
divestiture of the seeds distribution subsidiary groundnut processing public monopoly (SONACOS), have
encouraged some efficiency gains. Nevertheless, as reflected by two failed privatization attempts in the
latter half of the 1990s, many policy sector policy issues are unresolved and significant distortions
remain:
The objective of this subcomponent is to help ensure that the sector operates on sound, sustainable
financial footing and in a competitive economic environment, where the private sector is responsible for
commercial activities. To achieve these objectives, the following actions would need to be taken: (i)
elimination of trade policy and other regulatory and financial distortions; (ii) divestiture of SONACOS;
(iii) complementary sector reforms, in'lolving diversification of production in groundnut producing areas
as well as possible downstream measures to meet untapped demand; and (iv) clearance of accumulated
liabilities through a one-time financial restructuring of the sector. World Bank support to this sector
reforms will be channeled through two projects other than the present one, the proposed Private Sector
Adjustment Credit which will help finance a portion of the net liabilities; and the ongoing Agriculture
Services Project (Cr. 3219-SE) which would help put in place a private seed distribution system and
undertake a study of diversification options in groundnut producing areas.
The proposed project would support the following activities: (a) transactions advisers and the related
public information campaign; (b) development of a new marketing system; (c) implementation of policy
reforms; and (d) study and implementation of sector diversification strategy. The project would support
these activities through studies, technical assistance and related consulting services, as well as study
tours, and the provision of furniture and equipment.
Project Component 4 - US$6.20 million
Supporting Implementation and Capacity Building (US$6.2 minlion, of which US$5.7 million is
financed by IDA)
The project will, in substance, be implemented by beneficiaries. In addition, a professional project
management unit (PMU) has been established. This PMU is housed within APIX but under the project
will be accountable to the project steering committee.  The PMU would oversee the financial
management, procurement, reporting, monitoring and evaluation, audit, public information and related
functions as well as manage a handful of actions the coordination which will be outsourced to a team
leader (e.g. tourism). The following institutions will take the lead in project activities:
o   APIX - Administrative barrier reform, private-public consultations and investment facilitation
support (in collaboration with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs).
-60 -



*   UPE and Ministry of Finance - Legal strengthening and streamlining (in close collaboration with the
Ministry of Justice), Tax reform, trade facilitation (in collaboration with the Ministry of Transport),
infrastructure regulation, divestiture, pensions reform (jointly with the Ministry of Labor), postal
sector reform and edible oil sector reform (in partnership with the Ministry of Agriculture).
*   Outsourced expert - Matching-grant scheme and tourism development.
*   Other - ART (in collaboration with the appropriate sector Ministry), telecommunication reform.
*   Project Management Unit - Implementation responsibilities.
While most partner organizations have the capabilities to manage the complex activities supported by
the project, strong complementary implementation capacity is needed to ensure high that project
objectives are met. Therefore, about 9 percent of the Credit (excluding PPF refinance) is allocated to
this component. The Credit will thus finance a team of high caliber local professionals located at the
PMU consisting of a project manager, financial and procurement specialists, program officer, and the
related support staff. The management of the matching-grant will be outsourced to a team of local and
N international consultants. In addition.to the salary of these short- and long-term project staff, the
component will finance operating costs, goods (including up to 4 vehicles), reference material and
supplies, as well as training for both project staff and other stakeholders participating in the project
steering committees (no top-up or other forms of gratuities will be paid to civil servants). This unit will
also be responsible for ensuring adequate monitoring and evaluation, and undertaking the impact
assessment of various components, preparing quarterly progress reports, and facilitating the mid-term
review and orderly closing of the project. In addition to the above, the Credit will also refinance
US$1.99 million of PPF resources used to prepare the project. Finally the component will finance the
following additional activities:
*   Public Information and Communication Campaign - A public communication strategy has been
integrated within all project activities. In addition stakeholders have requested that stand-alone
programs to be financed by the project to ensure that cross-cutting issues are covered, ensure better
training of journalists on economic affairs, and develop radio and television programs (through
private associations).
*   Strengthening UPE - UPE's operations are funded by Africa Capacity Building Fund (ACBF). The
unit has a proven track record both as a think tank advising the Ministry of Finance in economic
matters, including the PSRP and sector reform, and as a facilitator of reforms. UPE has been
substantially involved in project preparation and will be heavily relied upon during the
implementation of the project. The project will therefore help finance the following needs identified
by UPE as needed to fulfill its commitments: (i) set up of an observatory on competitiveness; (ii)
establishment of an UPE documentation center, website and information system; (iii) equipment,
furniture and one vehicle; and (iv) a study fund to help analyze emerging priorities.
*   Implementation and Dissemination of the new Procurement Code - The new procurement adopted
in Senegal is seen as an important step forward in the area of good governance in the country, which
also would open opportunities for the private sector based on a transparent, competitive system. The
project would provide financing of up to US$300,000 for the following activities: (i) help the,private
sector better understand the public procurement system; i.e, training on the new code and any related
tools (standard bidding documents, guidelines) and understanding the functioning of new institutions
that would result from the procurement reform agenda; (ii) organize the proper dissemination of
- 61 -



information regarding bidding opportunities (Procurement bulletin and or procurement web site);
(iii) help the private sector get better organized and in a better position to compete for contracts in
Senegal and the sub-region; and (iv) assist the private sector to function as the counterpart of the
Govemment in ensuring transparent and efficient service delivery (performance in contract
execution) etc.
o PPF refinancing US$1.99 million
-62 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SENEGAL: Private Investment Promotion Project
*                         - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~::~~~~Local.':  Forelgnz  -iTotait1~
r'rOIectC  By'Component,;-               _, ili_U_ion..
1. Improving Investment Climate                         3.46         4.00         7.46
2. Facilitating Private Participation and Enhancing      9.78        4.54         14.32
Competitiveness
3. Stimulating Sector Investment and Implementing Policy  10.69      17.13       27.82
Reform
4. Supporting Implementation and Capacity Building       2.91         3.06         5.97
Total Baseline Cost                                     26.84        28.73        55.57
Physical Contingencies                                  0.01         0.23        0.24
Price Contingencies                                     0.28         0.60        0.88
Total Project Costs'            27.13        29.56        56.69
Total Financing Required            27.13        29.56        56.69
... 1?'~~~Loca  ~ - Fbreign p    f
-. ..J  A  roje Cost By Cate- Xy '~ l~.   ,,.S = $nion -, 'US 1 $libn ..- US$milliond-
Works                                                     0.38          0.19         0.57
Goods                                                     2.26         10.00        12.26
Services                                                  2.68         13.38        16.06
Training and Workshop                                     2.36          1.85         4.21
Telecom Fund                                              8.00          0.00         8.00
Matching Grant                                            6.00          0.00         6.00
Output based support                                      3.06          2.04         5.10
Operating Cost                                            2.00          0.50         2.50
PPF Refinancing                                           0.39          1.60         1.99
Total Project Costs     27.13        29.56        56.69
Total Financing Required    27.13         29.56        56.69
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 56 7 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 81.13%
of total project cost net of taxes.
-63-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
SENEGAL: Private Investment Promotion Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured In monetary terms]
_Kj~-~-~ --_  - ',Present'Valuewp!f,Flows  - -        Fiscal Impact
.. -,|- l- n ;'  -rj --.-,.'-EcomitI  . *Financial Analysis-
*____________       An-alysis-                          Taxes'         Subsidles  _
Benefits:                    42.2                               8.4              n.a.
Costs:                       29.9                              n.a.              n.a.
Net Benefits:                12.3                               8.4              n.a
IRR:                         19.8
Note: The discount rate used for the economic analysis is 12 percent.
It is assumed that financial and econornic costs and benefits are the same.
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Base Case Results.
The economic analysis of this type of Private Sector Development project presents the limits encounter in
all similar project evaluation. The difficulty in quantifying the economic benefits results mainly from the
indirect relationship between the project's interventions and the stream of benefits; and from the lagged
effects of the project on the performance of the different sectors directly supported. Nevertheless, a
cost-benefit analysis has been used to calculate the Net Present Value (NPV) and Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) in a "with" and "without" project framework.
The net present value of the overall project is estimated at about US $ 12.5 million for a 12% discount
rate, while its internal economic rate of return is estimated at 19.8%. Throughout the lifetime of the
project, a minimum of 7200 jobs are expected to be created not only by the matching-grant supported
SMEs but also by new productive activities encouraged by the Investment Promotion and Infrastructure
Agency, APIX. Positive externalities generated by the project are also expected to translate in indirect
additional job creation. The positive impact on the fiscal position estimated at about $8.4 million result
from increased direct and indirect corporate taxes and taxes on incremental wages.
Matching Grant   APIX     Stimulating. Investment Overall
(Investment  (Investment   sector    Climate  Project
facilitation)  Facilitation) development
NPV (US$ million)      6.5          1.9        1.6        2.2      12.3
ERR                  40.3%        26.1%       13.8%      19.2%    19.8%
Table 1: Summary results by main subcomponents
- 64 -



The cost-benefit analysis was done for four main components: (i) matching grant; (ii) APDC; (iii)
stimulating sector investment, which includes the sub-components support to divestiture and support to
Ministry of Foreign Affaires; and (iv) investment climate. All the ERRs for the components presented in
the table below are above 12% indicating that the project is robust. The main economic benefits and the
monitoring tools are presented below:
Nature of benefits / Indicators               Monitoring tools
Increase private national and Foreign direct     Investment statistics
investments
Increased productivity and outputs in the  Base case / end of project output levels
matching-grant supported SMEs
Job creation resulting from new productive      Employment statistics
investments
Job creation in the SMEs sector  Number of employees at beginning / end of project
Improved investment climate; reduction of  Periodic survey of cost of doing business
costs of doing business (cost of
administrative barriers, cost of infrastructur
services, etc)       Uri
Main beneficiaries
The main beneficiaries of the project would be: (i) a minimum of 400 finns with access to non-financial
business development services; (ii) private associations supported to implement the matching grant
scheme; and (iii) the private sector which will benefit from an improved investment climate and reduced
marginal effective tax rate.
Main Assumptions:
* Stable macroeconomic environment as projected in the CAS with a 8 percent real GDP per annum on
average; and an inflation rate under 3% (PRSP target).
* Friendly business environment to attract Foreign Direct Investment.
* A minimum of 400 firms are expected to use the matching grant scheme with and average amount of
$7,500 per beneficiary. It is assumed that the support provided would increase efficiency of the
recipients and would yield an increase in economic outputs at a multiple of 10 times the amount of
support. The matching grant is not only expected to facilitate access to non-financial business
development services for SMEs and to improve the business consulting services but also to stimulate
job creation. The rate of job creation has been calculated using estimate of current labor productivity
in the manufacturing sector.
* It is assumed that capacity will be effectively and timely strengthened within the private associations
(ADEPME, SODIDA, UNAQUA, etc) who will contribute to the implementation of the matching
grant component of the project.
* In the base case, the increase in firms' output is discounted by 66% to take into account the social
costs of other crucial resources in the economy that are diverted into the project from other activities
not directly supported by the project.
* Each $1,000 spent by APIX will generate 1 job by mid-term review; and two jobs by end of project.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Four sensitivity tests were carried out by switching values of critical items: (a) the first test assumed a
75% social cost of resources diverted into the project, the NPV was reduced to about US$1.1 rnillion and
- 65 -



the ERR dropped to 12.8%; (b) the second test assumed a 50% social cost of resources diverted into the
project, the NPV increased to US$32.1 million while the ERR jumped to 29.6%; (c) the third test
assume a higher increase in output for each firm from 10 to 15; the results showed a NPV of US$22.9
million and ERR of 17.5%. The fourth test assumed longer disbursement period, the NPV decreased to
US$10.1 million while the ERR came down to 18.4%. Finally, it should be noted that the fiscal impact
remain positive in all sensitivity analyses performed. The overall results confirm the project soundness.
Table 2: Sensitivity Analysis S
Scenario      Sensitivity      Cases      Variable Amount   NPV       ERR      Fiscal
Performed                                   ($million)  (%)     Impact
($million)
Overall Project
Delayed Project  Elongated    (a) Base       (a) Regular      12.3      19.8    8.4
Implementation  Disbursement                 Disbursement
period        (b) Alternate                   10.1      18.4    7.7
(b) Slow
Disbursement
Change in       Percent       (a) Base       (a) 66% Reduction 12.3     19.8    8.4
Diversion       reduction in
Assumption      increase in   (b) Alternate  (b) 75% Reduction 1.1      12.8    6.2
Output
attributed to  (c) Alternate  (c) 50% Reduction 32.1    29.6     12.4
diversion from
other sources
Expected        Increase in   (a) Base       (a) 10 Times     12.3      19.8     8.4
Change in       expected
Output for each  change in    (b) Alternate  (b) 15 Times     17.5      22.9    9.5
firm            output for each
firn
-66 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SENEGAL: Private Investment Promotion Project
Senegal
Private Investment Promotion Project
Project Components by Year - Base Costs
(US$ '000)
Base Cost
2003     2004     2005      2006     2007     Total
1. Improving the Investment Climate  1,220.0  2,380.0  1,840.0  1,350.0  670.0  7,460.0
2. Facilitating Private Participabion
and Enhancing Competitiveness   2,720.0  3,270.0  4,870.0   2,370.0  1,095.0  14,325.0
3. Stimulating Sector Dev. &
Implementing Policy Reform      2,380.0  5,980.0  8,285.0   7,130.0  4,050.0  27,825.0
4. Supporting Implementation &
Capacity Building               2,980.0  1,030.0    730.0    630.0    580.0   5,950.0
Total Baseline Cost             9,300.0  12,660.0  15,725.0  11,480.0  6,395.0  55,560.0
Physical Contingencies            83.4     80.4      97.5     43.9     12.1    317.3
Price Contingencies               43.9    173.7    323.1     231.3    101.1    873.1
Total Project Cost              9,427.3  12,914.1  16,145.6  11,755.2  6,508.2  56,750.4
- 67 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
SENEGAL: Private Investment Promotion Project
Procurement
General: A CPAR was conducted in 1994 and its main recommendations were reflected in a new
procurement code. This code was published in the official gazette of Senegal in July 2002. The
implementation of this code has been incomplete, as some of the arrangements have not yet been made
operational. Some of the key improvements include devolution of procurement responsibility to
ministries and public entities, which would streamline the process and reduce processing time. The
present project, under component 4, will contribute to a better dissemination of.the code within the
private sector. A new CPAR is underway and will be available by April 2003. The ensuring
recommendations are expected to help further enhance the procurement framework. The overall
procurement context in Senegal has been deemed satisfactory and no major problems have been
identified in Bank projects.
IDA will finance civil works, goods, consultancies, training and other local activities necessary to
implement the project. The procurement of goods, works and services will be done in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, Revised
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999) and the Guidelines on Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997, January
1999 and May 2002). The Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and the standard forms of
contract and request for proposals for consulting services will be used under the project. Any goods or
services not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the public procurement
regulations of the country or the co-financing institution's procurement regulations.
Advertsement: A general procurement notice (GPN) will be published in the United Nations
Development Business, announcing goods and consultant services to be procured and inviting interested
eligible suppliers and consultants to express interest.  Specific Procurement Notice (SPN) in
Development Business will also be required for all consulting assignments exceeding US$200,000 per
contract. Notification and advertising will be carried out in accordance with the provisions in the
Guidelines. The GPN will be updated annually to include those contracts still to be let. The GPN will be
issued in the national press of the official gazettes for contracts to be let under National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) and the SPN for goods and works will be advertised in the national press of wide
circulation and internationally for large contracts. Sufficient time should be allowed to obtain the bid
documents.
Implementation: Responsibility for all procurement under the project will rest with the PMU and will
be the coordinating and responsible agent for all procurement funded by the project. It will handle the
procurement requests according to monthly procurement schedules submitted by each implementing
agency. It will have staff who are fully familiar with Bank procurement procedures.  Technical
specifications and TORs should be prepared and staff hired.
Assessment of procurement unit capabilities:
(a) General considerations. A procurement specialist will be recruited and housed within the PMU. He
will monitor the progress of procurement and implementation of each contract under the project and will
ensure effective and timely project execution. It was expected to use the services of the former
procurement specialist at APIX, but this is still uncertain. Due to the necessity of important procurement
-68 -



activities which will be handled under the retroactive financing section of the project, there is a certain
urgency to proceed with the recruitment of a new specialist; at least hire a short-term consultant for the
period covered The Procurement Specialist will be expected to: (i) help ensure quality, (ii) focus on
specific procurement problems and issues, and (iii) make a significant contribution to ensuring that
procurement takes place as rapidly and effectively as possible. In addition, the Procurement Specialist
will coordinate with the Accountant to ensure overall integration of procurement plans and financial
reports.
(b) Qualification and experience. The minimum level of qualification and experience required for
consultant to be hired (for a short period) and the procurement specialist to be recruited are the
following. The Procurement Specialist must hold a graduate degree in either of the following, (i)
Engineering (Civil, Mechanical, or Industrial), or (ii) similar advanced degree from a recognized
university;  He/she should have at least five (5) years of experience in Contract/Procurement
Management; experience with the World Bank assisted projects and familiarity with World Bank
Procurement Guidelnes would be of particular advantage.  The Procurement Specialist should
demonstrate ability to efficiently resolve all contractual and procurement matters, and adequate
experience in handling consultant contracts and related issues; demonstrated skills in computer
application and use of software programs for contract of works management/procurement database and
monitoring is an essential requirement.
Readiness for implementation: A general procurement plan for the whole project and a detailed
procurement plan for the first year of implementation was prepared by the PIU and discussed during
negotiations. It will be finalized and submitted for approval prior to project effectiveness. The section of
the operational manual related to procurement will be in compliance with the procurement arrangements
described in this annex and the final draft of the DCA.
Procurement methods (Table A)
A general procurement plan reflecting the bid packages for the entire period has been prepared. It will be
updated quarterly during the project implementation. A detailed procurement plan for the first year of
the project was prepared and submitted before negotiations.  It will be reviewed and prior to
effectiveness in the sense of better specifying the missions for selections of consultants and groups some
items (when feasible) for procurement of goods. The procurement plan to be prepared will include
relevant information on all goods and service contracts under the project as well as the timing of each
milestone in the procurement process. The detailed procurement schedule will be updated every six
months and submitted to IDA. The procurement specialist in the PMU would monitor the progress of
procurement and implementation of each contract under the project and would ensure effective and
timely project execution.
Procurement of Consulting Services
As noted above, the selection and employment of consultants will be in accordance with the guidelines,
the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002). Except otherwise stipulated, all consulting service
contracts will be awarded using the Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS) method. Consulting
service contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 for firms may be awarded through the
Consultants Qualifications (CQ) selection method in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.1 and
3.7 of the Guidelines. For contracts of a routine nature estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and
where well established practices and standards exist, such as financial audits, Least-cost (LC) selection
method may be used. All consulting services of individual consultants will be procured under individual
- 69 -



contracts in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines. In exceptional
cases, for contracts not exceeding US$25,000, Single-source (SS) selection would be used in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8-3.11; IDA review and approval is needed for such contracts.
Concerning specifically the recruitment of consultants under the matching grant, the beneficiaries will to
refer to private sectors procedures acceptable to the World Bank; the project procedures manual will
describe in detail the rules to be used and how they will proceed. The Bank standard request for
proposals will be used and forms of contracts as needed (lump-sum, time-based and/or simplified
contracts for short-tern assignments and individual consultants) as well as the sample form of evaluation
report for the selection of consultants.
Procurement of Goods
As noted above, the purchase of goods and services would be in accordance with IDA procurement
guidelines. All contracts for goods estimated to cost over US$200,000 equivalent each shall be subject to
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Goods contracts estimated below US$200,000, but above
US$100,000 shall be subject to National Competitive Bidding (NCB), up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding US$5 million. When possible and practicable, procurement of goods would be combined into
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 equivalent or more and procured under
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. Goods contracts estimated below US$50,000 shall
be subject to International Shopping (IS), including IAPSO and internet shopping, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$1.5 million equivalent. National shopping (NS) for contracts estimated below
US$50,000 each shall be used each time the product if largely distributed in the country.
Civil Works
Works contracts financed under the project are generally small repairs below US$50,000. Works
contracts estimated above US$500,000 shall be subject to ICB. Works contracts estimated below
US$500,000 but above US$50,000 shall be subject to NCB up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
US$600,000. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 shall be procured under small works
procurement methods.
Operational Costs
Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project implementation,
management and supervision, including office supplies, communication costs, travel allowance of project
staff but excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil service.
Training
Training will generally cover individual training attached to specific institutions, group training;
on-the-job training of technical staff assisted by consultants and international experts; and hiring
consultants for developing training materials, conducting training and support for training activities
through seminars, workshops and training abroad based on individual needs as well as group
requirements. A detailed training program giving categories of training, number of trainees, duration of
training, staff months, timing and estimated costs, etc. will be submitted to IDA for review and approval
on a quarterly basis.
-70 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                             0.00             0.31          0.26          0.00        0.57
(0.00)           (0.31)        (0.22)       (0.00)       (0.53)
2. Goods                             10.87            0.92          0.47          0.00        12.26
(9.08)           (0.88)        (0.16)       (0.00)      (10.12)
3. Services                           0.00            0.00          16.06         0.00        16.06
(0.00)           (0.00)       (15.16)       (0.00)      (15.16)
4. Training and Workshop,             0.00            0.00          4.21          0.00        4.21
(0.00)           (0.00)        (3.90)        (0.00)      (3.90)
5. Miscellaneous (R-Telecom          0.00             0.00          21.09         0.00        21.09
fund, matching grant and APIX        (0.00)          (0.00)        (14.09)       (0.00)      (14.09)
contract,etc.)                  _
6. Operating Costs                    0.00            0.00           2.50         0.00        2.50
._______________________  (0.00)     (0.00)         (2.20)       (0.00)       (2.20)
Total                             10.87            1.23          44.59         0.00        56.69
I      (9.08)          (1.19)        (35.73)       (0.00)      (46.00)
"Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
-71 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior Review Thresholds
Works and goods. With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost US$200,000 and
US$100,000 equivalent or more, respectively, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines would apply.
Consultant Services.The terms of reference and the short list for all consulting assignments irrespective
of their value will be subject to IDA prior review. For the first year of the project, unless agreed with
IDA, for consultancy contracts with firms which have an estimated value of US$200,000 equivalent or
more, the draft request for proposals (RFP) and the shortlist of consultants must be cleared by IDA prior
to inviting proposals from consultants. In addition, the evaluation of technical proposals must be cleared
with IDA before opening financial proposals of the qualifying finms. With respect to each contract for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a) and 5 of
Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Post Review Thresholds
Contracts that are not subject to prior review would be selectively reviewed by the Bank during project
implementation and would be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the
guidelines.
- 72 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Donth  ~ ~ ~  ~   ~    ~   ~  ~   ta~.SiubjecVtd`to
1. Works                        >100                    ICB                  No contract
<100                    NCB                      ..
2. Goods                        >100                    ICB                All (10,865.30)
50-100                  NCB
.__________________           <50                   Shopping
3. Services
Firms                          >100                   QCBS                    2,700
<100                    CQ                First contract only
Individuals                    >50            Section V of Consultants  All contracts and all PMU
Guidelines       long-term staff (more than
6 months)
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous 
S. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  13,565.3
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 3 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurerent" and contact the Regional Procurernent Adviser for guidance.
- 73 -



Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
SENEGAL: Private Investment Promotion Project
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Executive summary and conclusion.
The objective of the assessment is to determine whether the Project Management Unit (PMUT), which is
responsible for the implementation of the Project, has acceptable financial management arrangements as
required by the Bank's policies, including the entities' system of accounting, reporting, auditing and
internal controls. It was found that, overall, the PMU has satisfactory financial management capacity.
However, some weaknesses are detailed below.
Implementation arrangements. The PMU will be housed at APIX or a suitable place and will be
responsible for all aspects of financial management of the project. The PMU will thus benefit from
APIX's experience in terms of managing IDA funds. The main recommendations relative to the staff, to
the information system and to the organization should be implemented before the effectiveness of the
project.
Staffing. The PMU will be headed by a team leader who will supervise a team including a Financial and
Admnistrative Director (FAD) and one accountant. This staff, responsible for the accounts and finance
must be place prior to effectiveness. They will receive technical support from APIX, whose staff is
already in place. APIX's financial management staff (accounts and finance) have satisfactory
qualifications and professional experience and have been trained in World Bank procurement,
disbursement and financial management procedures. The experience that APIX has shown in its
management of PMSIA and the PPF for this project has proved satisfactory. However, the key staff of the
PMU must be in place before effectiveness (see effectiveness conditions).
Accounting Policies and Procedures. APDX has been applying satisfactory procedures since it was set up
in 2000, both for the management of the PPF and the PMSIA. However, these procedures have not been
formalized in a reference document, such as a manual and they will probably be different from the
procedures of the PMU. It is therefore necessary to develop a procedure manual which includes
accounting policies and procedures, definition of respective duties with a good segregation, budgeting
system and all relevant administrative and financial procedures, relating to the components of the project.
Financial Management System. A computerized financial management system has already been installed
at APIX and will be used for the project. PPF transactions are being recorded with this system which
will require an adaptation to take into account the specific chart of accounts of the project. The report
formats must be customized. However, the software which has been used by other Bank financed
projects, has proved satisfactory and is capable of generating Financial Managment Reports (FMR)
without any major problems.
External Audits.
o   Audit of PMU. An independent auditor has already been recruited by the project for the PPF.
However, the specific terms of reference for an auditor for the project will be adapted and submitted
to IDA for approval. The project's accounts will be subject to annual external audit by a reputable
auditing finm, based on terms of reference appropriate for the project's scope to be approved by IDA.
-74 -



These terms of reference will cover the audit the project's accounts, the statements of expenditures
and the special account. The selection of the auditor for the first year of the project will be a
condition of credit effectiveness. The audit reports will be transmitted to the World Bank not later
than six months after the end of the fiscal year (i.e., by June 30th).
0   Other external audits. For this project, the annual audited reports of APIX will also be required
and transmitted to the World Bank in the same terms and conditions of the audit reports of the
project. From time to time, IDA may request additional audits of key partner institutions in the
context of the project, notably the Post Office and SONACOS. Such requirements will be
communicated annually to the Borrower prior to December 31 of the year for which the audit is to be
conducted.
Reporting and Monitoring. The PMU will prepare quarterly FMRs. The format of the FMR will be
discussed and agreed before effectiveness. The quarterly reports will cover financial management,
procurement and physical progress monitoring, covering all activities financed under the project
regardless the source of funding. No major problem is expected with the financial and procurement
reports. Areas of concern are with the physical progress monitoring report where the PMU lacks
experience and which would require additional efforts. Those physical progress reports will be based on
the outcomes indicators.
2. Audit Arrangements
The accounting and administrative procedures for the annual audits will be handled by the PMU. Project
accounts, special accounts and disbursements under statement of expenses (SOE) will be audited
annually according to international auditing standards by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The
annual report will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Prior to credit
effectiveness, the Government will be required to make the initial deposit of the counterpart funds of
FCFA 40 million, equivalent to US$ 60,000 to the Project account. Government will also maintain the
value of the Project account throughout its implementation.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
The overall project Financial Management System (FMS) is expected to include project management
reporting capabilities from the start of the project's implementation. Disbursements will be made for
goods, works and services that are eligible for IDA financing. All replenishment or reimbursement
applications will be submitted monthly or when the Special Account is reduced by one- third, whichever
comes first. All replenishment or reimbursement applications will be fully documentsed except for
contracts under the prior review threshold to be determined as a result of the procurement assessment.
SOE documentation will be retained at the PIU for review by Bank staff and annual audits.
- 75 -



Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
i.-, - Expendlture CFaegogy r ,,rc AniLun- 4U   U $inllo  DA FinsncInag
Works                                      0.53            100% of foreign and 90% of local
expenditures
Goods                                      10.12           100% of foreign and 90% of local
expenditures
Consultants Services                       15.16           100% of foreign and 90% of local
expenditures
Training and Workshops                     3.90                       100%
R-telecom Fund                             3.00             100% of eligible expenditures
Matching Grant                             3.00             100% of eligible expenditures
Apix Contract                              5.00             100% of eligible expenditures
Operating Cost                             2.20                       90%
PPF refinancing                            1.99                       100%
Unallocated, including contingencies        1.10
Total Project Costs with Bank Financing    46.00
.Total                                     46.00         _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Goods: expenditures under contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent;
Individual consultants: contracts of less than US$ 50,000 equivalent;
Consulting Firms: contracts less than $100,000 equivalent; and
Training and study tours: expenses less than $50,000 equivalent
Special account:
Two special accounts for a total of CFAF 2.0 billion (about US$3.0 million) will be set up for the
project. The first account of CFAF 1.7 billion (about US$2.5 million) will be used for all the project,
except the matching-grant subcomponent. The second special account of CFAF 300 million (about
US$500,000) will be used for disbursements of the matching grant. The initial deposit at effectiveness
will be half of the authorized amount. Unless otherwise agreed by IDA, the accounts will be fully
replenished respectively once cumulative disbursements of US$5 million have been attained under the
project and disbursements under the matching-grant component have reached US$500,000. The reason
for establishing two separate accounts is based on lessons learnt from previous experience in Senegal and
other countries, where high seasonal fluctuations related to disbursements of the matching-grant have
crowded-out other activities.
- 76 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SENEGAL: Private Investment Promotion Project
sirject Shedule .  h  ,   .  -                     n ,'v' :   i  -            ua
Tlme taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)
Appraisal mission departure                                                02/09/2003
Negotiations       |                                                       03/03/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/01/2003
Prepared by:
Chenf Azi was the original team leader for the project and began its preparation in 1998. Iradj Alikhani
took over as new team leader in October 1999, at which time the Government requested that project
preparation be suspended until after the 2000 Presidential elections. Dialogue with the new Government
was renewed during a preparation mission in November 2000 during which stakeholders requested a
different and expanded project focus. Additional preparatory work was completed in late 2002 and is
reflected in the present appraisal document.
Preparation assistance:
Project preparation was faciltated by a PHRD grant of US$156,000 (TF026212) and two PPFs (Q2720
and Q2721) of US$1.99 million.
- 77 -



Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name    .    .                         Speciality
Iradj Alikhani                   Sr. Economist, TTL, AFTPS
Shenhua Wang                     Sr. Private Sector Specialist, AFTPS
Sherri Archondo                  Sr. Financial Sector Specialist, AFIFS
Maimouna Savane                  Private Sector Specialist, AFTPS
Robert Palacios                  Sr. Economist, Pensions, HDNSP
Isabella Ngoc Dung Andress       Sr. Information Specialist, CITPO
Beat Heggli                      Sr. Investment Promotion Officer, MIGA
Bourma Diaite                    Sr. Procurement Specialist, AFTPC
Fily Sissoko                     Financial Management Specialist, AFTFM
Jacques Morisset                 Peer Reviewer, PSAFI
Paul Noumba Um                   Lead Telecommunication Specialist, CITPO
Iain Christie                    Consultant for Tourism, AFTPS
Elizabeth Crompton               Consultant for Tourism, AFTPS
Cherif Azi                       Sr. Private Sector Specialist, original TTL, AFTPS
Antonio Estache                  Adviser, Economic Regulation, PSIVP
Ousmane Badiane,                 Rural Development Specialist, AFTR2
Leopold Sarr                     Rural Development Specialist, AFTR2
Adama Toure                      Rural Development Specialist, AFTR2
Jessica Schnable                 SME Specialist, CSM1DR
Kishor Uprety                    Sr. Counsel, legal reform, LEGAF
Wolfgang Chadab                  Sr. Disbursement Officer, LOAGI
Solange Alliali                  Sr. Counsel, legal reform, LEGAF
Hermina Martinez                 Consultant, Qualiy Assurance
Peter Miovic                     Consultant, Peer Reviewer
Sidonie Jocktane                 Program Assistant, AFTPS
- 78 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SENEGAL: Private Investment Promotion Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Detailed Cost Tables
Draft PIP
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide memoires from project preparation missions
FIAS: Studies of administrative barriers (1998 and 2002) and of the tax system (2001) in Senegal
Tourism study (2003): Summary included as Annex 11
Pensions Study (2002): Summary included as Annex 12
Procurement and Financial Management Assessments
Country Economic Memorandum (2003)
C. Other
Govemment's signed Private Sector Policy Letter
Draft APIX marketing (2002) and 5-year Business Plan (2001)
Country Framework Report on infrastructure (2002)
Documents related to first PIC meeting of November 2002.
*Including electronic files
- 79 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SENEGAL: Private Investment Promotion Project
16-Apr-2003
Difference between expacted
and actual
Original Amount In US$ MilDons                          disbursements
ProJect ID   FY   Purpose                                   IBRD        IDA       SF       GEF    Cancel    Undlsb      Orig  Frm Rev'd
P070541      2002 NUTRmON ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM                   000      1470       000       000      000      1472      270       000
P041528      2001 LONG TERM WATER SECTOR PROJECT                000     12500       000       000      0 00    12724      2203      000
P041566      2001 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND PROGRAM               000      30 00      0 00      0 00     0 00     2606      1533      000
P067498      2000 PUBUC SERV INFO-SYSTEMS MODERNIZAT            000      1015       000       000      000       687      691       475
P055472      20D0 URBAN MOBILUTY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM            000      7000       000       000      000      6736      4319      000
P057996      2000 NATIONAL RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJEC          000      28 50      000       0 00     0 00     23 33     2149      0 62
P047319      2000 QUALJTY EDUCATION FOR ALL PROGRAM             0 00     50 00      0 00      0 00     000      29 38    -1992      0 00
P069198      2000 DistanceLeamingCenter-UL                      000       210       0.00      000      000       062       039      000
P002366       1999 TRANSPORTII                                   000     9000       000       000      000      7529      4183      00o
P002367       1999 SenegalAGRSRCVES&PRODORGS                    000      27.40      000       000      000      1706      1717      -315
P051610       1998 Senegal AG EXPORT PROMOTION                  000       8 00      0 00      0 00     000       3 64      362     -0 32
P002369       1998 INTEGR HEALTH SECT DEV                       000      5000       000       000      000      2304      2437      000
P002365      1998 URBDEVT&DECENPRO                              000      7500       000       00o      00o      3035      3106      184
P041567       1997 ENDEMICDISEASES                              000      1490       000       000      000       923       951      959
P042056       1997 SN SUST PART ENGY MGMT                       000       0 00      000       4 70     000       0 85      0 70     0 22
P046648       1997 SN REGIONAL POWER                            000      10 50      000       0 00     000       1 61      1 77    -016
P048768       1997 SN SUST PART ENGY MGMT                       000       520       000       4 70     000       1 85      1 97     1 30
P002373       1996 HIGHER EDUCATIONI                            000      2650       000       000      146       499       799      000
P002346       1995 WATERSECTOR                                  000     10000       000       000      000      2399      3906     1453
Total       000      73795       0.00    940        146     48745     271 17     2922
-80 -



SENEGAL
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity    Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1996/97/98         AEF SERT                      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.     000
1980               BHS                           0.00    0.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    0 46     0.00   0 00
1999               Ciments du Sahel             13.90    2 26    2.43    0.00    6.95    2.26   ' 2 43   0 00
1997               GTIDakar                      8.11    161     0.00    978     8.11    1 27    0.00    978
1981/88            ICS                           0.00    0.00    0 00    0.00    0.00    0.00     000    000
1998               SEF Fanaicha                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0 00    0.00    0 00     0.00    0.00
2001               SEF Royal Saly                1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0 00
Total Portfolio:        23.12    4.33    2.43    9.78    15.06    3 99    2.43    9.78
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1997              GTI Dakar                        0.84      0.00      0.00     0.00
2000               CIMI IFC/PSD LN                  3.40     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment.        4.24     0.00      0 00      0 00
-81 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SENEGAL: Private Investment Promotion Project
sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-
Sangl       Africa   Incormr     Dsvslopffent dlamond'
2002
Population, mid-year (niflDons)                       10,0      874     2 511                 Lfe expectancy
GNI per capta (Atlas nelhodo US$)                     460       470       430
GNI (Alas method. USS billIons)                        4.8      317      1 089
Aversa annual growth, 1903-042
Population (%)                                         2.7       2,5       1,9
Labor force (%)                                                  2,6       2,3     GNI                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent esntato (latest yaar available, 1996-02)                               capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total populatfon)               45        32        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       52        47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 Ihe births)                68        91        76
Child malnutrition (% of hlldren under 5)              22                               Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of population)             55        76
Illiteracy (% of populatlon age 15+)                    .        37        37
Gross prmary enrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation)      66        78        96               -Senegal
Male                                                 71        85       103              -   Lownincome group
Female                                               57        72        88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS atd LONG-TERM TRENDS
1902     1992      200       2002
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                           2,6       6,0       4,6      4,9
Gross domestic investmentiGDP                12,2     14,8      18,1      16,9                    Trade
Exports of goods and servIces/GDP           33,0     23,3       30,4     30.1
Gmoss domestic savings/GDP                   -2,5      7.4       8,8       7.6
Gross national savings/GDP                   -686     5,8       13,3      12,2
Current account balance/GDP                 -19,0     -9,0      -4,9      4,7      Domesb 
Interest payments/GDP                         1,5     0,8        1,        1,4                                Investment
Total deWbGDP                               72.0      60,3      77,6      72,0
Total debt servtc/exports                    12,7     13,3      14,2      12,1
Present value of deWbGDP                             38,2       46,6     44,3
Present value of deWexporls                          145,9     122,0     118,0
Indebtedness
1e2-92   19920       200       200    200118
(average anunal grovth)
GDP                                 2,3      4,6       5,6       2,4       6,0            -   Senegal
GDP per capita                      -,5       1,9      2,9      -0,2       3,3                  Low-incorne group
Exports of goods and servIces       1,7      5,1       6,6       5,4      5,1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
19S2     192      201       2W02      Growth of Investment and GDP (%
(% of GDP)                                                                        30
Agdrculture                                 23,9      20,8      23,8      19,1
Industry                                  , 16,5     20,8       29,1      32,8    20
Manufacturing                              11,5     13,8      19,1      21,7     10\
Services                                    59,8      58.4      47,1      48,1     0
Private consumption                         84,3     77,2       76,9     79,8     lo..    9    S     &     0
General govermment consumption               18,2     15,4      14,5      14,5         -G0I             0    -GDP
Imports of goods and services               47,7     30,7       40,0     39,4
1(vrga92  199202      2S01 2gt2          Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average anrsa/ growt)
Agriculture                                  1,4      2,5        7,7     -14,0    2
Industry                                     3,4      8,2        6,0      10,1
Manufacturing                               3,8      5,4       5,1      10,2     a
Services                                     2,2       4,8       4,8       4,8    4
Private consumption                          1,7      4,8        2,3      6,6     o
General govemment consumpton                 2,4      4,6       25,3      2,7            97   ao    99    08    01   02
Gross domestic Irivestment                   4,5       5,4       4,7      -8,0            -Ex    ons     -   -Inpors
Imports of goods and services                1,3      3,7        5,2      4,5        ,
-82 -



PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1982    1992      2001     2002     Inflation (%)
Domestic pt7ces
(% change)
Consumer prices                           17.3      0,0      3,0      2 2    a
Implicit GDP deflator                      9.3      0,6      2,8      2,6    2
Goveemment finance                                                           1
(% of GOP, Includes cunent grants)                                           o
Current revenue                           17.9     18.9      17,8    18,7           97    oS   99    00    01    02
Current budget balance                    .3,5      2,6      2.5      5,7             -GDP deflator --CPI
Overall surplus/deficHt                    -7,2    -2.6     -3.9     -2.7
TRADE
(USS milions)                             1982    1992      2001     2002     Export and Import levels (USS mtiil
Total exports (fob)                        502     828      1 009   1 065     2000
Groundnut                                128       66      112      147
Fish                                      56       60       35       37      5W                  _
Manufactures                             182      190      250      250
Total imports (cif)                        984    1 355     1 678    1 847    1oco
Food                                     235      363      359      409      500C
Fuel and energy                          292      150      283      278
Captal goods                             137      175      283      313        0
96  97   99   so  00   Cl   02
ExDort price Index (1995=100)               91      93        79       81
ImportpnceIndex(1995-100)                   80      89        93       97               *Exports     *IElnorta
Terms of trade (1995=100)                  113     104        85       84
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millIons)                            1982    1992      2001     2002     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services              892    1 404    1 409    1 466     20
ImDorts of goods and services            1277     1 851    1 852    1 948     l
Resource balance                          -385    -447      -443     -460
10 
Net income                                -116    -133       -88      -92
Net crrent transfers                        10      34       305      320      s
Current account balance                   -491    -545      -226     -232      0
Financlng items (net)                     365      566       327      359     -
Changes i net reserves                     126     -20      -100     -127    .10
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)      25      22       584      693
Conversion rate (DEC. locaJSS)           328,6    264,7    733,0    718,6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1982    1992      2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                CoiriposItlon of 202 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     1 861    3 634    3 576    3 559
IBRD                                      79      62         0        0                 G270
IDA                                      166     873     1430     1490              F 23
Total debt service                         123     210       251      224                 ^
IBRD                                      8       19         2        2
IDA                                       2        9        30       32
Composition of net resource flows                                              E 1 224
Official grants                        #REF    #REF      #REF     #REF                                 7
Official creditors                      263      249        74       84
Private creditors                         7      -31         0        0
Foreign direct Investment                 1S                40       30                  o
Portfolloequity                           0        0         0        0                  D 432     c 120
World Bank program
Commitments                               19      44         0        0     A-IBRD                    E - Eklatera
Disbursements                            26       97       129       70     B - IDA  D- Otler mruldtateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                      3       16       21        23     C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                23       81       108       47
Interest payments                         7       12        11       11
Net transfers                            16       70        97       36
- 83 -



Additional Annex 11: The Tourism Sector and Development Prospects
SENEGAL: Private Investment Promotion Project
Tourism in Senegal Today
In 2000, receipts of 96.8 billion FCFA (US$129 million), ranked the tourism sector second after fishing
and well before groundnuts and phosphates. Tourism is estimated to have generated 12,000 jobs directly
and 25,000 indirectly and contributed 2.5 percent of GDP, though these statistics are based on data that
appear to underestimate total jobs generated and, possibly, tourist expenditures. The sector has provided
the base for economic growth in the Petite CMte, which is the principal tourist region, and has the
potential to be a development catalyst in other regions with tourist assets.
Senegal has a variety of first-rate natural and cultural assets that compete favorably with those offered
elsewhere. Resort assets are the principal attraction in Europe's winter and these assets are not fully
exploited. Furthermore, Senegal's variety of birds, big game fishing, scenic areas, scuba diving potential,
a rich traditional culture and vibrant arts scene, wildlife and attractive handicrafts provide the potential
for diversification and expansion of the tourism product. The country's appeal as a tournsm destination
for Europeans is enhanced by Senegal's proximity to Europe and warm climate in Europe's winter, with
the added advantage of no jet lag on a north-south route.
Recent history shows a sector that is growing modestly but is also losing market share in an expanding
international and regional market. Between 1975 and 1997, Senegal dropped from 7th to 16th in WTO's
ranking of the top twenty tourist destinations in Africa based on tourist arrivals. While the annual growth
rate has increased from 1996 to 2000 to 6.7 percent (the last year for which data are available), the
average annual growth rate in visitor numbers for the decade has been 4.7 percent. This compares with
WTO's estimate that during the past fifteen years the numbers of international tourists worldwide more
than doubled to 698 million and arrivals of tourists to Africa (defined as the entire continent, i.e.,
including North Africa) increased by 177 percent from 9.7 million to 26.9 million, or at an average
annual growth rate of 7 percent.
Accelerated growth in tourist arrivals from 1996 to 2000 is largely attributable to demand from the
French market. French visitors, which constitute 50 percent of all tourists, have increased at an annual
rate of 7 percent during the 1996 to 2000 period compared to the decade rate of 2.7 percent. African
visitors constitute 25 percent of Senegal's arrivals, but appear to be mainly business visitors as they are
concentrated in Dakar and have a short stay. There was a 10 percent growth in arrivals of African visitors
for the decade, which slowed to 7.6 percent for the five years ending in 2000.
Weaknesses in demand are shown by the short average length of tourist stay (3.4 nights), the dependence
on one source market (50 percent from France), the apparent low rate of repeat tourism (tentatively
estimated at 5 percent) and a relatively defined peak season (over 23 percent of bednights are sold in
January and February). According to industry sources, profitability of many hotels has been, at best,
marginal, which is borne out by the above demand characteristics, by low average occupancy rates (35
percent) and by a high dependence on international tour operators, which can depress prices particularly
if the hotel sector is not competitive internationally. Lack of profitability leads to deterioration in
quality, which, in turn, leads to lack of competitiveness. While the competency of the local professional
sector is not in question, its comparative experience, which could lead to greater innovation, is. This is a
direct result of over dependence on a single-source market. These constraints affect the quality and,
therefore, the competitiveness of Senegal's tourism product in the international tourism market.
- 84 -



The cities of origin, frequency and cost of air access to Senegal is a major issue for the country and one
over which it has limited control. Senegal's tourism sector was adversely affected in 2001 not just by
September 11 and its aftermath but by the termination of operations by three major airlines serving
Senegal (Air Afrique, Sabena, Swiss Air). Air access to and from Europe was maintained by daily Air
France flights and the initiation of regular flights to Paris (via Rabat) by Air Senegal International, as
well as the greater use of charters. In May/June 2002, Senegal again began to be served by a restructured
Swiss Air and by a Belgian airline, Air Brussels, that emerged from the reorganization of Sabena.
Other areas of concern are land speculation, sub-optimal land management, paucity of financing
combined with inappropriate terms of lending for the sector, and to varying degrees, depending on the
region, inadequate infrastructure.  The increase in the value added tax (VAT) to 18 percent in late
September 2001 concerns the private tourism sector because of its impact on Senegal's international
competitiveness.
To be sustainable any expansion of tourism in Senegal's sensitive ecological areas requires a review of
current land-use planning practices and the establishment of environmental regulations, particularly for
the coastal zone. (Senegal does not have an Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plan.) There is little
awareness in Senegal of the growing demand, particularly from Europeans, for "green" tourism. To date,
no hotel in Senegal has earned any international certification of good environmental management, e.g.,
ISO 14,001, Green Globe, in contrast to several rival resort destinations that derive marketing, as well as
environmental, benefits from certification.
Two major cultural areas-Ile de Goree and St. Louis-have received and are receiving external
assistance for the protection of their assets and to attract tourists. Relatively little is known about the
state of Senegal's other built cultural assets or about the living traditions that could induce tourists to
visit local communities. Currently, though, the Government is exploring ways to protect the livehhoods
of Senegal's internationally renowned local musicians and artists through legislation to protect their
access to royalties. Senegal's music is well known in Europe, particularly France, and, consequently,
enhances the country's image as a tourism destination. Senegalese painters have also made their mark on
the international arts scene. An attractive range of local handicrafts raises tourist expenditures and
effectively distributes these expenditures to local communities.
One of the strengths of tourism can be its backward and forward linkages within an economy, and,
concomitantly, the indirect as well as direct employment it generates. Case studies from other countries
in Africa and around the world illustrate the potential for targeted interventions to alleviate poverty
through tourism. An essential condition, however, is that the mainstream tourism sector be healthy and
growing for these linkages to take root and for local communities to benefit. As yet, little attempt has
been made in Senegal to target "pro-poor" tourism and specific processes for consultation with local
people or to incorporate local people as stakeholders in the tourism product have not been formulated.
Despite the economic importance and potential of the tourism sector in Senegal, the services that the
Government used to provide have declined over the past few years and for several months in 2001 the
Ministry of Tourism was actually abolished. A tourism strategy is only now being formulated. The
contribution, impact and operational needs of the sector need to be better defined if there is to be a
consensus within Government about appropriate policies for the sector. Dialogue between the public and
private sectors is intermittent and, currently, strained over the use of funds from a tourism tax to fund
promotion and marketing. Promotion and marketing of tourism at the critical country level is weak and
under-funded compared with competitors, though individuals vigorously market their hotels and tourist
services internationally.
- 85 -



For the foreseeable future, Senegal appears to have no significant development alternatives to tourism for
its foreign exchange earnings, employment and tax generation, and as a regional development tool and
catalyst for overall economnic growth. Participants at the recent Journees nationales de concertation,
confirmed decisions made during public-private consultations in 2000 that Senegal should aim for a
target of 1.5 million visitors by the year 2010. This target implies an increase of 300 percent in tourist
arrivals in the ten-year period, i.e., a 14 percent average annual rate of growth, compared with 4.7 percent
during the decade ending 2000 and 6.7 percent from 1996 to 2000. Those targets also require adding
20,000 beds throughout the country in areas of tourism potential -- a more than doubling in hotel beds in
the ten-year period from 2000 to 2010. A related objective is to raise the quality of the tourism product
in order to appeal to a higher-income market. To achieve these targets, Senegal will have to expand
demand by tourists considerably and will have to attract substantial tourism-related investment.
Based largely on the quality of its assets, Senegal can, realistically, expect to achieve considerable
expansion of demand. To attract the investments that will be necessary to accommodate the market
expansion and the external assistance to help expand, diversify and support the tourism product, Senegal
needs to create a sound policy framework for tourism. Such policies can be expected to improve the
general business environment for other sectors too. The formulation of appropriate policies for the sector
requires an ongoing dialogue between the public and private sectors and local stakeholders, and
consensus within government about the operational requirements of and benefits to be obtained from an
expanded and sustainable tourism sector. Specialized technical support will be required to achieve the
corollary objective of improving the quality of the tourism product.
The ambitious targets for the year 2010 provide Senegal with a quantitative goal for the sector. Debate
about whether or not the targets can actually be achieved by that date is less important than putting in
place a road map that will achieve substantial growth. The following plan for the sector proposes three
five-year stages - transition, expansion and consolidation. The consolidation stage from 2011 to 2015
takes the planning past the 2010 target date for the arrival of 1.5 million visitors. The plan is strategic
rather than quantitative, giving it the flexibility to adapt to whatever level of tourists Senegal attains
during the plan's implementation. The three plan periods are summarized below.
The Vision for the Tourism Sector (A Transition Period 2002-2006)
The review of the current state of the tourism sector suggests that Senegal cannot achieve its targets
unless it introduces substantial changes in the way the tourism sector functions. In other words a "step"
change, rather than minor adjustments, is required in policy formulation and dialogue between the public
and private sectors, planning measures, technical capacity, and in the quality of institutions for marketing
and promotion and in data management. An infusion of technical support to raise the quality, efficiency
and sustainability of tourism will be needed.  Growth will occur during this transition period as the
quality of the product improves but accelerated growth will only be achieved once a major investment
promotion campaign is undertaken at the end of the period in preparation for the expansion stage.
During this stage, Senegal needs to start Master Plans for its main existing or potential tourism areas to
enhance the overall quality and image of the Senegalese tourism product. The objective of Master Plans
is to conserve and enhance the value of each of the areas through environmental management plans, to
create synergism between them, to make them more attractive for investors interested in quality
accommodation and services, and to incorporate local communities in the tourism product. Studies of
crosscutting themes that are common to all the areas are needed to help formulate policies for tourism at
the national level, concerning, for example: airline capacity and access; taxation and incentives; pricing
- 86 -



and financing mechanisms; protection of natural and cultural assets; etc. To compete successfully with
rivals, Senegal needs an institution, such as a Maison or Office du Tourisme, that is responsible for a
national marketing and promotion campaign and that is also a venue for a dialogue and cooperation
between the public and pnvate sectors and a center for information about the tourism sector in Senegal,
including a national website and database.
Capacity building for stakeholders, including the Ministry of Tourism and the private sector, will be
essential during this transition stage. At the end of this stage, a follow-up to the 2002 Journmes
nationales de concertation would leave in place a five-year strategy for development of the sector during
the expansion stage of the vision. Also at the end of this stage, investment proposals derived from the
Master Plans and studies could be presented to a forum of potential investors and donors for financing, in
preparation for the expansion stage.
The project is designed to address issues that Senegal must resolve during the Transition Stage of the
transformation of its tourism sector. The objective of the tourism components of the PSD project, taken
together, is to strengthen the capacity of the public and private sectors to manage the sector sustainably
and efficiently, so that the quality of the tourism product is improved and becomes more competitive
internationally. By doing so, Senegal will maximize the economic benefits that can be obtained from the
sector. Improved planning for the sector and management of the natural assets that compnse the tounsm
product will strengthen environmental management of resources. This will help to ensure that the
distribution of benefits improves incomes and the quality of life of local people and, particularly, of local
communities in tounst areas.
- 87 -



Tourism Polic Matrix
Issue          Polcy                        lmpact of the Issue on the  PSID Tourism Project
Tourism Sector             Treatment
Air access and cost   Liberalization of air traffic  High dependency on few    Study of issues proposed
foreign airlines; lack of  in Year 1
competition keeps fares high
Land availability     Land management               Land for tourism development Each Master Plan will
in high-priority areas is scarce examine the situation
and at a premium, and tracts  locally and make
are held for speculation   recommendations
Institutional management The role of SAPCO and      Absence of good institutions  Each Master Plan will
of tourism developments  other regional institutions  can lead to uncontrolled and  address the institutional
unsustainable development  issue locally and make
recommendations
Sustainability        Land management; physical     Lack of environmental      Master Plans will
planning; and                regulation and physical    introduce zoning, physical
environmental regulation      planning leads to degradation  planning and propose
of natural and             environmental
cultural resources on which  regulations. Studies of
tourism is based           cultural assets and
national parks in Year 2;
green certification of
hotels in Year 3
Hotel profitability    VAT tax raised in September  Impact on hotel profitability if Study of hotel
001                         tax absorbed and on         profitability in Year 1
competitiveness if passed on
Weak country promotion Government participation with  Senegal needs to expand  Project Component 4
private                      source markets             proposes Office du
sector in tourism promotion                            Tourisme
Financing of promotion  Uses of bednights tax       Bednights tax funds are not  Project Comnponent 4
sufficiently available for  requires that by Year 3
international promotion    financing plan for Office
Ibe agreed
-88 -



Additional Annex 12: Pension Reform - Issues and Options
SENEGAL: Private Investment Promotion Project
Background
Until recently, pension policy has not been accorded high priority in Senegal or, for that matter, in most
of Africa. This has begun to change in large part due to the natural maturation of pension schemes set up
in the 1960s (the rising ratio of pensioners to contributors). Since pension promises have not been
matched by the accumulation of reserves, this process inevitably leads to a greater fiscal burden or the
need to default on promises or both. The financial deterioration has been exacerbated by the failure to
effectively invest the reserves that did emerge in the early years of the scheme and, most importantly, by
the largely exogenous shock of a declining fonmal labor force (and, therefore, contributor base). The
focus today on pension policy in Senegal is due to at least three problems facing policymakers. The most
urgent has been the need to contain the fiscal pressure of increased expenditures on civil service
pensions. Given the limited posibility of increasing government spending, policymakers must either cut
other important programs or raise taxes to pay pensions to this small segment of the population.
Reducing this liability, at least in the medium term, has become an important policy objective since the
late 1990s.
A second, more direct cause for concem is the increasing recognition of the failure to provide adequate
pensions to formal sector workers not in the civil service. Institution de Prevoyance Retraite du Senegal
(IPRES, covering the rest of the formal sector) pensions have stagnated and the low or negative implicit
rate of return on contributions to the scheme has reduced its credibility. While there is evidence of
increasing demand for instruments that could ensure old age income security, the public policy response
in the form of IPRES is rapidly losing credibility. This situation presents a major obstacle to other public
policy objectives, such as extending coverage of social insurance institutions to new groups of workers
and expanding the size of the formal sector in general.
Summary indicators for FNR and IPRES schemes, 2000
Basic Indicators               FNR        IPRES           Total
Membership                          Number
Contributors              58,000     153,400    211,400
Pensioners              35,000      91,700     126,700
Contribution Rates (1)      per cent of gross wage
O/w employer               20.00        8.40         n.a
oiw employee                15.00        5.60         n.a
Finances                         share of GDP
Contrlbution revenue              0.67%       0.77%       1.44%
Pension spending               0.85%       0.57%       1.42%
Deficitl surplus            -0.18%      0.21%       0.03%
Reserves               0.00%       0.76%       0.76%
Source: Data provided by FNR and IPRES staff
-89 -



Finally, Senegal's economy, like most others in the region, suffers from a shortage of long-term savings
and of institutions that can intermediate these effectively. Under the right conditions, pension reserves
could contribute to long-term growth by satisfying the demand for long-term funds. While this effect
cannot be expected without parallel reforms in other areas, some regional in nature, the alternative of
continued reliance on short-term savings and external assistance to finance investment does not seem
viable. Thus, the motivation for pension reform emanates from a variety of public policy 'objectives
including improved social protection and labor markets, fiscal sustainability and capital market
development.
Le Fonds National de Retraite (FNR)
The Fonds National de Retraite (FNR) was originally set up in 1961, but substantially reconstituted under
laws passed in 1964 and 1981. It is the pension scheme that covers the majority of civil servants
(fonctionnaires), the armed forces, police, fire officers, many teachers, university professors and
magistrates. The number of contributors to FNR in the last few years has stagnated at around 60,000.
Total FNR contributors comprise around 3.3 percent of the estimated labor force in Senegal; the FNR
currently has around 31,000 beneficiaries. The scheme provides old-age, early-retirement, invalidity, and
survivors' benefits, both to widow(er)s and orphans. In 1997, 32 percent of beneficiaries received the
old-age pension, 14 percent an early-retirement pension, 9 percent an invalidity pension, and 44 percent a
survivor's pension. The normal retirement age was raised from 55 to age 60 in 2002 but there is a variety
of other retirement ages for specific groups. In particular, many military personnel can receive an old age
pension at or around 40 years of age, on a rather low salary base but with their years of service
augmented to 30.
Varnous preliminary studies have shown that FNR is unsustainable. It is running a significant deficit and
actuarial projections show that there will be a greater imbalance in the future. The financial problems of
the social security system, particularly the civil service pension scheme (FNR) are long-standing, and
pension reform has been an important policy objective of the PRGF program since 1998. The imbalances
of the FNR, which operates as a "pay-as-you-go" scheme, stem from a steady rise in the number of
retirees over time while the size of the civil service has remained largely stable. In these circumstances,
the FNR has accumulated large unfunded future liabilities and incurred rising cash deficits in the
treasury.
The reforms introduced in 2002 only modestly reduced the unfunded liability of the FNR and was mainly
motivated by short-term considerations, i.e., the need to avoid short-term deficits. The law enacted by
Parliament in February 2002 marked a new chapter in pension policy in Senegal. It aimed to reign in
spending while implementing several revenue-enhancing measures, the result which will lower the net
present value of FNR's future liabilities, but without securing full financial balance as originally
envisioned. The highlights of the reform are: (a) broadening the base of wage contributions; (b) raising
the retirement age from 55 to 60 years; (c) curtailing family benefits and (d) modifying the pension
formula to include a longer history of wages and to reduce the accrual rate for pensions from 2 percent to
1.8 percent of the pensionable wage base per year of service.
The financial position of the FNR in the short and medium-term has been strengthened by the 2002
reform. The system will be able to withstand the retirement of a large group of members currently aged
around 40-45 with small deficits. Nonetheless, the FNR is still building up liabilities that it will find
difficult to afford. Also, it offers its members a pension whose value depends on the Government's
civil-service pay policy. A recent study recommended the following measures to put the finances of FNR
on a sustainable footing and protect the financial interests of current FNR members: (a) moving to price
indexation of pensions; (b) increasing the number of years of earnings used to calculate the initial
-90 -



benefit; and (c) shifting pro-natal benefits out of the pension scheme.
Institution de Prevoyance Retraite de Senegal (IPRES)
The IPRES is the second prong of the formal pension system in Senegal. This scheme aims to cover
private-sector 'salaried' workers although approximately one sixth of public-sector employees are
covered by the IPRES rather than by the FNR. The IPRES, established in 1958, currently covers around
three percent of the labor force. IPRES pensions are based on a points system. Pension points are
bought in a particular year and the pension is the number of accumulated points at retirement, multiplied
by the value of the pension point. This is a variant of a defined-benefit scheme, in that the pension value
depends on past individual eamings. But, in contrast to the current FNR, for example, benefits are a
function of average salary over the working life and not of final salary. The system is essentially
pay-as-you-go financed, although there is a small liquidity reserve. This was onginally intended to cover
around a year of benefit payments, but has risen to around two years' liabilities after a run of surpluses in
recent years.
The IPRES scheme has faced severe demographic pressures in the last two decades. The system's
support ratio (the number of contributors per beneficiary) declined sharply, from over five in 1970 to
around 1.5 today. The most rapid fall was in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Between 1985 and 1993,
the support ratio halved. More recently, the support ratio fell by a quarter between 1994 and 1997,
reaching a peak of just 1.4 contnbutors per pensioner. Much of the loss after the economic shock of the
early 1990s has now been clawed back. The support ratio was 20 percent higher than its minimum in
2000, at a level of 1.7 contributors per beneficiary. The explanation for this pattern lies in the decline in
the proportion of the labor force in the formal sector. It also arises from a fall in employers' compliance
with contribution requirements. The number of contributors peaked at over 175,000 in 1987 and then fell
to a low of 115,000 in 1997. The last three years have seen a reversal of this decline and the number
covered has now risen to 154,000, but this is still well below what might be expected. For example, if
coverage had remained stable as a proportion of the labor force since 1987, there would now be almost a
quarter of a million IPRES contributors.
Such severe demographic pressures might be expected to have had an adverse effect on the system's
finances. IPRES recorded enormous deficits in the late 1980s and early 1990s, peaking at over 40
percent of total revenues, however, since 1994, the system has recorded surpluses, which exceeded 20
percent of total revenues in 1999 and 2000. On the revenue side, the increase in the contribution rate
from eight percent in 1980 to 14 percent since 1995 has had a vert large impact. This change will have
increased contribution revenues by 75 percent. This is equivalent to an increase in total revenues
(including investment returns) of around 65 percent.
A number of publicly-owned institutions have stopped paying contributions to the IPRES for their
employees. These arrears amount to almost CFAF 26 billion. It should be noted that this figure includes
penalties and interest on the overdue contributions. More than one-third of contribution arrears is due to
penalties and accumulated interest. Public enterprises account for two-thirds of the principal and more
than 60 percent of total arrears. Some of these enterprises are now defunct. For the remaining debtors,
the amounts are clearly too large to be resolved easily. This complicates public policy in at least three
areas. (a) IPRES finances have deteriorated, largely because of the decline in the number of contributors.
This is, in turn, partly due to the non-payment of contributions by publicly owned enterprises; (b) the
compromises the objective of covering workers in the formal pension system. Employees lose their
rights to pensions when contributions are not made and (c) the government's privatization and
industrial-restructuring program is complicated by the appearance of IPRES-contribution liabilities on
91-



the balance sheets of these institutions. The challenge is to devise a workout plan that is realistic.
Solving the arrears problem is important not only for potential beneficiaries but also as a signal for the
system  as a whole.   The failure of government and para-statal enterprises to meet their
IPRES-contribution liabilities exposes the weakness of collection procedures and control.
IPRES, although ostensibly a private-sector entity, administers a government mandate. This mandate
involves several functions, including collection of contributions, record keeping, payment of benefits and
management of investment reserves. Until recently, IPRES had not attempted to combat evasion,.but this
attitude is changing and the authorities now intend to define a monitoring strategy. Two manuals of
procedures have been prepared: one to control the payment of contributions by employers and the other
to describe the procedures for appeals. The first set of procedures includes accounting audits (with
on-site inspections where necessary) to detect undeclared workers, non-registered employers and
insolvent enterprises.  The new system of contribution enforcement is based predommnantly on
documentation provided by employers. There is no system of alarm signals and no indicators of
performance or risk analysis that can be used for pre-emptive monitoring. Supervising authorities need a
set of indicators to highlight potential cases of evasion, but this requires investment in information
technology. The most effective, and least costly means of improving monitoring would be to co-ordinate
efforts with the income-tax administration. Both institutions require similar information from employers.
IPRES reserves were originally intended to serve as a liquidity fund covering only one years' worth of
benefits. However, by the end of- 2000, reserves had grown to about twice this level and continue to
grow. In light of the relatively small size of the contractual savings sector, IPRES reserves represent a
large fraction of long-term savings in the Senegalese financial sector. And if the parametric reforms
advocated here are instituted, the size of these pension reserves would grow further. It is therefore
important to ensure that the assets are managed effectively. The local market offers limited possibilities
for investment, and foreign investment should therefore be allowed if pre-funding is to be part of pension
policy. Also, the parallel development of the bond markets, beginning with government bonds, should
allow increased domestic diversification. These are reforms outside the scope of the pension reform
administration (the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO must determine the scope for investment abroad,
for example). However, the governance structure and the investment policy can be improved as matters
of internal policy at IPRES. For example, Law 75-50 imposes a bureaucratic procedure to the investment
process that is inconsistent with modern asset management. It should be revised to provide a clear
statement that the objective is to maximise the benefits to IPRES members by seeking the best returns for
a stated level of risk tolerance.
Strategy for Systemic Pension Reform
The report "Building a Secure, Sustainable and Modem Retirement Income System in Senegal"
requested by the Government was the first step towards defining a strategy for pension reform.
Government envisions a two-stage reform process. First, the FNR must be placed on a sound financial
footing. This can be achieved by correcting the flawed method of increasing salaries and pensions that
has prevailed for the last two decades and instituting several key reforms. Two key measures, would be
moving to inflation indexed benefits and gradually moving from a final to a lifetime earnings base for the
calculation of benefits.
The reform agenda for making the IPRES scheme financially sustainable is also straightforward. Four
changes to the parameters of the scheme and its administration are recommended: (i) index the ceiling on
earnings and subject contributions to salary growth; (ii) delink pre and post retirement indexation of
pension rights in the long run; and (iii) overhaul the governance structure and investment policy for
pension reserves. Other items in the reform agenda include a mandatory supplementary pension system
-92 -



and the voluntary solidarity fund. The latter includes a govemment subsidy for contributions and
provides for an investment of 20-30 percent of funds in small and medium-sized enterprises, with
concomitant challenges as regards the management and investment decisions. A third proposal is the
expansion of IPRES by adding on a funded component of individual accounts.
Shifting to a multipillar system that includes a mandatory, funded, and privately managed component
involves a number of policy decisions. A strategic choice must be made on the size of the funded pillar in
absolute terms and in relation to the unfunded pillar. Simply adding on a funded pillar to the existing
unfunded one implies raising contributions rates, which under current circumstances seems undesirable.
Carving the funded pillar out of the unfunded pillar implies lowering benefits of the unfunded system in
the future and, since current pensions are financed with current contributions, finding the resources to
cover the gap to pay existing pensioners. The overall size of future pensions of those workers moving to
the new multipillar system would depend on the rate of return of the funded pillar and how previous
contributions to the unfunded pillar would be valued. Since the benefits of switching are generally rising
with age, it would be useful to make switching to a funded second pillar voluntary for all those who have
already contributed to the existing pension scheme to bolster public support for reforms.
Many countries have financed the transition with a mixture of tax increases and higher debt. The
currently comfortable financial position of IPRES implies that this could be a feasible strategy, with the
amount involved being manageable. Moreover, it would seem reasonable to also offer FNR participants
the switch to a funded second pillar and close the FNR for future civil servants, who could be integrated
into the same two-pillar system as workers in the formal private sector.
Close attention would need to be given to the administration of funds, investment policies, withdrawals,
and regional considerations. Regulatory choices on the administrative structure can determine the
administrative costs of the system, a crucial concem for a relatively small-scale system. These choices
also determine the ease to contribute, and the attractiveness for pension providers to offer their services.
In the long-run, a system with specialized fund managers would seem preferable, with an interim solution
of a professional and arms-length centralized asset management. A specialized regulator may need to be
created for the pension activities. An early decision would have to be taken on how to withdraw funds on
the basis of insurance sector capacity. Regional restrictions of foreign investments outside the CFA zone
and the limited size of regional financial markets may require a concerted reform effort to allow a broad
diversification of potential pension savings.
These changes will stabilize the formal pension system in Senegal and prevent current and future
taxpayers from having to bail out a pension scheme that covers a very limited part of the population.
Encouraging voluntary private and funded pensions is a legitimate alternative. But combined with the
growing support for the introduction of a funded scheme, a decision to implement a systemic reform
appears well timed. Available estimates suggest that it is financially feasible. However, a systemic
reform will face a number of important institutional constraints. Domestic investment opportunities are
limited and the governance structure for managing pension funds must still be created. Successful
implementation of this complex reform will require concerted effort with support from the highest level
of government over a multi-year period. But the potential payoff is large: a secure, modern pension
scheme will directly benefit those that participate while a new and powerful mechanism for channeling
long term savings may benefit the entire population.
- 93 -



Additional Annex 13: PRIVATE SECTOR POLICY LETTER (An unofficial Translation)
SENEGAL: Private Investment Promotion Project
I.     BACKGROUND
National economies are open to global competition reinforced by their regional, bilateral and multilateral
trade agreements. This international environment offers opportunities to support private investments and
trade. Senegal has since 1994 implemented key reforms designed to strengthen its economic and social
development strategy, and to improve the business environment, the competitiveness of the economy,
attract national and international private investments, export growth and opportunities for employment.
The devaluation of 1994 in the WAEMU zone and the strategic decision to facilitate private participation
in the infrastructure sector also supported this strategy. To consolidate structural reforms and achieve an
even higher economic growth rate to eradicate poverty, Senegal initiated the formulation of a private
sector development strategy based on a participatory process involving: (a) validation of the strategy by
stakeholders in 1999; (b) further revision of the strategy during 2001-2002; and (c) adoption of a more
comprehensive development strategy aimed at reducing poverty by the first half of 2015.
In 1990, the modern private sector was comprised of approximately 1,000 companies, 264 of which were
in the industrial sector, 69 in the construction and public works sectors and 667 in services (63 of which
were in the hotel industry and tourism). Since 1995, the overall Senegalese economic grew at a rate of 5
percent per annum. This is a good indicator of the private sector performance. Notwithstanding the
decline observed in 2002, the overall modern sector contributes approximately to 26 percent of the
country's GDP versus 61 percent by the so-called informal sector, and employs only 5 percent of the
workforce. This growing participation of the private sector in economic activities should not hide the
fact that private sector initiatives face major constraints, which prevent them from not only taking a more
active leading role in creating and accumulating wealth, but also in fighting poverty. Therefore, new
reforns and a more constructive public/private dialogue are crucial in completing the structural
adjustment of the pnvate sector and in reinforcing its competitiveness.
1[L . OBJECTIVES
The promotion of the private sector and commercial activities is at the core of the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP). Creating wealth is one of the major goals of the PRSP, which targets growth
with following qualities: (i) strong enough to have a substantial and quantitative impact on national and
regional prevalence of poverty; (ii); that relies on sectors having an important and sustainable impact on
improving income in rural and urban areas; and (iii) that generates employment, promotes investments
and exports. In this context, the Government has identified the promotion of private investment as the
preferred tool to stimulate higher growth and creating an equal income distribution.
The growth objective for the year 2003 - 2005 is to achieve an average per annual growth rate of 7 to 8
percent. This growth depends on an investment rate of 22 percent. Macroeconomic projections that
establish the overall consistency of the strategy predict an average per annum growth of per capita GDP
ranging from 4.5 percent to 5.5 percent, thus extending access to economic opportunities and social
services. Per capita income could double within 15 years, therefore permitting to better distribute the
fruits of growth. These projections rely on a series of assumptions that foresee an increase of public and
private investments in which volume and efficiency will be maximized. The achievement of these
macroeconomic objectives requires a favorable framework for wealth creation laid out in the present
Letter. Its main instruments are the development of infrastructure and human capital, investment climate
reform, deepening of sector reforms, and the strengthening of private sector capacities.
-94 -



III.   STRATEGY
To achieve these important objectives, the Govemnment has identified a number of measures to be
implemented through sectoral programs. These programs reinforce and complement results already
achieved and existing initiatives. The Government action plan consists of the following steps: (i)
improving the efficiency of State intervention; (ii) facilitating private sector participation and reinforcing
competitiveness; (iii) promoting private investment and implementing reforms in a number of sectors
supporting the pnvate sector; (iv) and strengthening institutional and human capacities sustaining the
private sector. Within the framework of the Development Strategy of the private sector and the New
Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) the fundamental objective of Senegal to promoting
private investment and accessing foreign markets would be achieved through: (a) improving the business
environment; (b) promoting an efficient regulatory framework for pnvate participatory initiative in
financing and developing infrastructure services; (c) implementing strategies to develop key sectors; (d)
implementing a viable support mechanism for the pnvate sector; (e) promoting a better integration in
sub-regional and world economies; and (f) facilitating communication and policy interface between the
private and the public sector.
3.1. Improvement of the business climate
The Government and the private sector, in consultation with their developmental partners, have adopted
the following strategic actions aimed at improving the efficiency of the state: (i) simplification of
procedures and reduction of delays and costs of doing businesses; (ii) reforming the judicial system
capacities to improve transparency, speed, and accessibility to its services; (iii) promoting exports,
liberalizing trade, and increasing competition; (iv) adapting labor legislation, implementing provisions
designed to promote Senegal's competitiveness; (v) continuing the privatization process; (vi) reforming
public administration to improve services for clients; and (vii) rationalizing and improving business
taxes.
3.1.1. Carrying out the simplification of administrative procedures
Despite past efforts, recent studies have shown that procedures in many areas are still complicated,
generate incremental costs, and hinder private investments. Therefore, it is necessary to continue to
simplify the administrative procedures, in order to stimulate private investment. More specifically,
actions will be taken to improve the operation and the performance of public land, tax, and customs
administrations. In this respect, the Government will continue to work closely with FIAS' services to
simplification procedures and establish a long-term framework to reduce administrative barriers on
private investment. The aforesaid simplification plan is to be found in the annex of the present letter. Its
implementation is expected, in the short-term, to reduce the delays by 50 percent.
3.1.2. Strengthening Judicial capacities
Private investments and markets can best be developed in an environment governed by a set of rules that
are clear, stable, and respected, and where effective competition is present. The legal framework should
guaranty private property rights and support economic activity. In addition, consistency in the
enforcement of these rules and their effective application are essential to ensure competition and support
market systems. These should be guaranteed by a fair and developed judicial system, independent from
the executive and legislative branches. A Judicial sectoral expenditure program will be defined in 2003.
Its implementation will allow continuing the modernization efforts of the judicial institutions, and
promoting access to judicial services through (i) increasing the human, physical and financial resources
- 95 -



of the judicial system, (ii) adapting legislation to business' needs, and (iii) supporting efforts to promote
business law. The Government will continue its efforts to harmonize legislations within the framework of
its regional and international agreements and in particular with WAEMU, OHADA and the WTO. It will
also promote alternative dispute resolution settlement mechanisms (arbitration, mediation, and
conciliation), in addition to legislation against money laundering which will be developed and enacted.
3.1.3. Promote export, support liberalization process, and increase competition
The basic principle of trade liberalization and the strengthening of competition are related to lifting
quantitative restrictions on imports, encouraging an increase in exports, and lifting restrictions on
investments. The actions needed to promote exports, are as follows: (i) encourage existing businesses to
enter new export markets; (ii) promote private investments in activities related to exports; and (iii)
develop a consistent strategy to promote exports.
3.1.4 Carrying out the adjustment of the environment and work conditions
Among other reforms, the Government is planning to improve the regulatory and legislative frameworks
for labor and to modify them to meet the requirements of a competitive open economy. The Labor Code
that is in place was adopted in 1997 as a result of a consultative process between the Government, the
employers, and the workers. The implementation of reforms provided by the code to promote
productivity are hindered by the non application of a number of regulations relative to the flexibility of
work, remuneration of labor, and classification of professions, which has been implemented only in the
hotel industry. With respect to pensions, the Government is committed to promote, on a participatory
basis, fair and sustainable retirement systems and social assistance. In the short-term, it is also
implementing parametric reforms of retirement plans. In the long-term, the possibility of systemic
reforms and of implementing institutional reforms of existing systems will be envisaged. In order to
promote intensive labor sectors, the Government and social partners will examine the possibilities to
support job creation through special regimes, such as free zone enterprises.
3.1.5. Carrying out of the privatization process and the economic regulation
The implementation of the privatization process and economic regulation should best be undertaken after
implementing a number of complementing measures. These would facilitate private sector participation
in infrastructures structures and would allow Senegal to benefit from the integration and globalization
process. In this context, different concessions such as BOT, BOO or BOOT will have priority and will be
subject to an appropriate legal framework in 2003. In 2002, the Government passed a bill on the
regulation framework for concessions. In order to adequately supervise the public or private
infrastructure services, the regulation function will be strengthened. To serve the interests of all parties
involved (consumers, investors, and the Government) regulatory sectoral institutions equipped with
sufficient material resources were established in the energy and telecommunication sectors. In addition,
other functions such as postal regulation will take effect in 2003. As for the rest of the economy, the
commission on competition will operate in full partnership with the consumer movement.
3.1.6. Continue simplification and rationliation of business taxation
The Government plans to integrate tax incentives within common law. The reforms of business and
households taxation will be carried out according to four fundamental principles: (i) widening a base
taxation; (ii) rationalization of instruments and reduction of one third of the marginal tax rate; (iii)
neutrality of internal taxation between regional products and imports; and (iv) the promotion of tax
civism. The simplification of the tax system was initiated following the currency devaluation. It was
-96 -



carried out with the harmonization of indirect taxation on the WAEMU side when common external
tarnffs were introduced in 1998. An 18 percent VAT rate was adopted in September 2001. In the course
of calendar year 2003, the Government is planning to optimize business taxes while promoting
investments. The intention of these reforms is to stimulate investments through the General Tax Code.
And finally, some taxes such the the vocational training, the tax on tourism will be revised and
reallocated.
3.1.7 Improvement of the quality of labor through professional training
Investing in human capital and particularly in health, basic education, professional and technical training
is crucial to tackling the challenge of productivity and growth. Ten-year plans and sectoral programs are
being implemented to achieve improved health coverage, universal school enrolment, and better develop
and channel professional training. To achieve immediate results an emphasis is placed on developing
professional and technical training in order to make the quality of labor meet investors' needs.
Particularly, the Government will allow the private sector to play a key role in the design and supervision
of the Professional Development Education Fund and in the reallocation of the training fee (CFCE) to
support business competitiveness.
These different options aimed at improving the efficiency of State intervention are inline with the overall
approach of enhancing the quality of public service. Within the implementation of the national program
of good governance, the admmnistration should significantly improve its capabilities in management and
service delivery, in order to adapt to change and better address the increasing competitive and global
economic environment. The new role of the administration requires the adoption a reform program that
rests on: (i) a strategic vision based on redefining the administration role which calls for a permanent
consultative process with the administration; and (ii) strengthening individual and institutional capacities,
particularly in key administrations.
3.2. Establishment of infrastructure services
Within the private sector promotion framework, the development of infrastructure services will be
achieved around two key axes: promoting partnership between the public and private sector; and
engaging the private initiative in financing and managing infrastructure services by implementing a
technical and economical independent regulatory framework, inspired by the international best practice.
3.2.1. Improvement of the quality and coverage of physical infrastructures
The direction to follow in order to ensure quality and coverage of the physical infrastructures is outlined
as follows:
* Complete and consolidated the results of the ongoing transport sector program
* Proceed with the liberalization and privatization of the energy sector.
* Ensure a sound and sustainable water resource management.
* Implement policies necessary to secure the privileged position of Senegal in the area of
telecommunication.
* Promote the development of rural infrastructures.
- 97 -



o Include the pnvate sector in the financing of infrastructure through BOT, BOO, BOOT models.
3.2.2. [mplementation of a new telecommunication sectoral policy
Aware of the importance telecommunication services and of the role it plays in social and economic
development, Senegal adopted in 2001 a new telecommunication code. This reform facilitated the
implementation of a regulatory authority in the telecommunication sector and established a legislative
(legal) framework that promotes a fair and effective competition. Market liberalization commitments
given by Senegal to the WTO in 1997 seeks to maximize the development potential of the sector outlined
by the 2001 reform The Government of Senegal has recently initiated a participatory process of
proposing a new sectoral policy which is expected to be finalized, at the latest, in June 2003. The new
telecommunication policy is being formulated around the following major objectives:
o   Significantly increase the supply of telecommunication services and promote access to
telecommunication services to as many people as possible and particularly in rural areas.
o Provide a good quality of service at competitive prices, tailored to the needs of residential clients and
to the private and public sector.
o Promote telecommunication services as the crucial economic sector ensuring the growth of a
comnpetitive economy integrated in a global market.
To achieve these goals, the strategy would rest on the following initiatives:
o   Strengthen the liberalization of telecommunication and further open the competitiveness of different
market segments. In this context, the Government of Senegal is also planning to award a new license
to a private operator.
o Reinforce regulation capacities of the Agence de Re'gulation des TUlecommunication and
development and monitoring capabilities of the sector policy within the governmental authority
responsible for telecommunication services.
O   Adopt regulations of the new telecommunication code and other statutory instruments allowing the
sector to initiate reforms on strong foundations and to remain dynamic.
O Promote the participation and the investment of the private sector, particularly with the state's
disengagement from SONATEL, once all conditions for its success will be met.
O Implementing a challenging policy, following the creation of a transparent and competitive funding
mechanism, ensuring universal access to telecommunication services, particularly in rural areas. A
universal access funds will created and initially be supported by funding from the World Bank (50
percent) and by a contribution from the Senegalese government with income generated, for example,
by the new license.
3.3. Implementation of appropriate strategies in the production sector
In order to encourage signs of sustained recovery of key areas and the emergence of areas of high
potential, the Government has decided to implement an overall strategy supported by sectoral programs.
The specific focus areas are agriculture, fishing, textile industry, craftsmanship, tourism, the music
- 98 -



industry, information technology, pensions, postal service, and the finance sector.
Agriculture contributes to nearly 17 percent of the GDP formation and to 21 percent of exports. The
development and the diversification of the agricultural production depend on access to national and
regional markets, and to opportunities provided by the international demand for quality export
production. Specifically, this will require to overcome the weaknesses of agriculture by supporting
private irrigation services, intensifying and modernizing agriculture, increasing and diversifying farm
income, strengthening the role of peasant organization, their responsibility and their participation to
determining policies, and to opening up rural areas. In regard to the groundnut sector that represents one
of the main export products of Senegal, the reforms will be undertaken to (i) improve the regulatory and
the financial framework and to eliminate trade distortions, (ii) promote the privatization of the
Senegalese national company (SONACOS- Societe Nationale de Commercialisation des Oleagineux),
(iii) implement additional reforms related to diversification of production in the area of groundnut
production and to promote the groundnut production export quality, in particular, and (iv) reduce the
sector arrears through a financial restructuring program.
The fishing industry is one of the major sectors providing hard currency to Senegal. It contributes to
almost 38 percent of export. In the long run, this contribution will slow down because of the
over-exploitation of fish resources. The actions taken will allow an efficient and effective management of
access to resources to achieve a long-term preservation of these resources thanks to a reduction of the
fishing intensity. Harmonization of the regulatory framework of the exploitation of fish resources and
those of its next-door neighbors (Mauritania, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, etc) will allow preserving the
resources along the coastline. A sector study will thus be undertaken and award of licenses will be made
more transparent.
For the development of the mining industry, a favorable regulatory environment will be implemented
through the adoption of a mining code during 2003. In order to prevent an adverse impact of the mining
sector, this Code together with the new the environment Code will include measures to preserving the
environment.
The competitiveness of the industry and craft sectors should increase significantly. The strategy calls
for supporting small businesses in their efforts to modernize and adapt technology, improve the quality of
their products, and their position in regional and international export markets, and will control their costs.
The services sector will play an important role in achieving the strategy's objectives. The first, being its
potential in terms of contributing to growth, exports, and job creation. The second, being its role in
contribution to increasing the competitiveness of small business in other sectors.
Promotion of the music industry, where Senegal has a comparative advantage. The importance of art
and culture has been established in the PRSP. The development of artistic and cultural products for the
regional, local, and international markets will significantly contribute to economic growth and poverty
reduction. Senegal continues to have a leading role in the "World Music" scene and has assets capable
of generating income and creating jobs to fight poverty in both urban and rural areas. However, today,
the majority of artists cannot live comfortably. To achieve its potential, the Senegalese music industry
faces many obstacles. By end of 2003, the Government will undertake a full review of its legislation and
legal system with regards to the protection of copyrights and related rights, and for the management of
royalties by the artists themselves. This comprehensive review will lay out the optimal conditions for
proposing new laws and a new judicial system that will take into consideration the emerging technologies
(such as "E-commerce"), and ensuring respect of copyright in accordance with international laws.
- 99 -



A particular emphasis will be put on tourism, which will continue to be a leading sector, a position that
goes beyond its economic role as it conveys the image of Senegal abroad. The implementation of
recommendation derived from the consultative process on tourism will improve Senegal's competitive
position. The major directions set for tourism are to reinforce the institutional capacities of this industry,
design a development program for new tourist sites, through private/public partnership, and develop
tourism infrastructure. To achieve these objectives, products need to be diversified (while consolidating
resort areas), access to land facilitated, and development of sites and promotion activities need to be
envisaged. The private sector's participation is considered at the institutional level, and will play a key
role in investments strategies. The possibility of reallocating funds from tourism taxes towards the sector
development will be considered.
In the postal industry, the Government has drafted a sector policy letter for the Societe naitonale de la
poste outlining its business strategic plan. The success of a postal reform relies on improving governance
and clarifying the relationships between the Government and the postal service. The Government
outlined the its strategy for developing the postal service in the policy letter for the postal sector.
The implementation of the strategic plan presented in that letter will allow: (i) improvements of the
overall performance of the postal industry by slowly opening up markets to the private sector, (ii)
reforms of the legal and regulatory framework, and reinforcement of the sectoral regulatory function, (iii)
preservation of the individual's nght to communicate through an appropriate funding mechanism of the
universal postal industry, (iv) turning the historical postal operator into a small efficient modern business
by implementing a strategic plan allowing it to survive in a competitive environment, (v) and promotion
of a sustainable development of postal financial service through subsidiary companies to provide a larger
part of the population with access to savings, credit, insurance, and use of fixed savings for private
investment. At the same time, the Government will continue its effort to strengthen economic regulatory
capacities of the postal industry.
Pension reforms already in place are aimed at sustainably solving the problem of structural deficit that
the Fonds national de Retraite (FNR) had previously faced and to increasing coverage of IPRES. Deep
reforms are necessary to provide the population with access to a pension system based on solidarity,
fairness, efficiency, and sustainability. Therefore, pensions will be subject to parametric reforms so as to
ensure their long-term sustainability and improve pension service for the elderly. In doing so, we will
ensure the restructuring of these institutions and the strengthening of their capacities to manage and
periodically measure the performance and reporting of pension plans under their responsibility.
Following these reforms, the next step would be to implement an institutional framework that would
support the introduction of pension plans through capitalization, while avoiding an increase in the
contribution rate. A feasibility study on the merging of EPRES and FNR will be undertaken. It requires
reformiing existing retirement plans and promoting efficient regulatory and monitoring structures. The
implementation of these objectives is two fold: to create and consolidate opportunities, for a larger part
of the population, to benefit from decent pension plans and ensure a controlled contribution of pay
savings to the development of local financial market.
The rmancial sector is expected to benefit from the development of fully funded pensions. The stability
of the banking sector since 1989-91 has contributed to building a stronger and more reliable foundation
and to reinforce competitiveness, diversification of banking service, demand, and more flexibility of
interest rates. It is also important to strengthen the regulatory framework of banking activities by
reviewing commercial laws regarding the development of financial markets, by addressing the problem
- 100-



of delinquent borrowers, and by reformning taxation and financial transactions.
3.4. Implementation of a viable process to reinforce public service commitment to business promotion
In order to take advantage of synergy among important political and institutional reforms dedicated to
improving the business environment and support small businesses, the Government is planning to put in
place institutional measures that are focused, coherent, efficient, benefiting from human and financial
resources and operating according to an approach based on results. In terms of support to small
businesses and as a result from the consensus reached between the public and the private sector, the main
functions are as follows: (i) promote investment and export; (ii) promote productivity, standardization,
and quality; (iii) promote local products; (iv) provide advice-support to small businesses; and (v)
facilitate access to financing.
3.4.1. Promotion of investment and exports
3.4.1.1. Investments
The recommendations brought forward in the framework of this activity resulted in the creation in 2000
of l'Agence nationale chargee de la Promotion des Investissements et des Grands Travaux (APIX). The
decree no 200.562 dated July 10, 2000 on the creation, organization and the operation of APIX, sets for
this agency the following responsibilities: look for and identify investors; promote Senegal, as the
investment target; host and join investors; facilitate administrative initiatives and procedures; present to
the Government a proposal to improve the business' environment; make trade and economic information
readily available; promote public-private partnership; facilitate the implementation of major
infrastructures works. APIX is also a member of the AGOA Committee and is responsible for
communicating trade opportunities made available by this American law. APIX's activities are expected
to create 10,000 permanent jobs by 2008.
The Government will continue to provide APIX with its institutional support through the implementation
of a business development plan and the carrying out of strategic studies on infrastructure, necessary to
promote the private sector, develop, and strengthen the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' and embassies'
capabilities. This will permit to better market Senegal's label and attract direct investments. In order to
make.the Senegalese diplomacy serve investment, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also be helped in
setting up a computer network serving embassies and allowing them to play an intermediary role with
investors.
3.4.1.2. Exports
Dispersion of resources characterizes the export promotion system in place, and in general, this explains
lack of results. Therefore, the quality and support to the private sector in the promotion of exports can be
maximized through rationalization and coordination of existing mechanisms through well-defined
performance objectives and missions. At the operational level, this rationalization will translate into the
development of a unique structure for promoting exports, whose objective is to provide information on
trade, assist economic bodies, and facilitate and promote export transactions. Similarly, new initiatives
are encouraged for the promotion of local products following similar initiatives or similar campaigns,
"buy made in Senegal products".
- 101 -



3.4.2. Promotion of quality and standardization
The improvement of quality, of which standardization is one of the many instruments, cannot be ignored
as a major concern in the context of improving global competitiveness of national economies. The
mechanism to be reinforced through l'Association Senegalaise de Normalisation (ASN), to significantly
improve quality, should serve the following functions: improve the standardization system, implement a
reliable metrology system, and develop certification mechanisms in compliance with standards
(promotion of a Senegalese label).
3.4.3 A Better coordination of financing initiatives
Based on lessons learned, the Government with the collaboration and the support of its development
partners will implement reforms to: (i) increase financial depth, (ii) launch new financial products, (iii)
put into place credits to encourage business, (iv) implement credits tailored for rural areas, and
(SME/SMIv), hotel industry, tourism or similar professions etc.
3.4.4 Rationalization of support mechanism for SMEs
The promotion of SMEs is central to the recent creation of the Agency for the Enhancement and
Development of SME (ADEPME). In general, to promote SMEs, it is also important to streamline the
mechanisms already in place and make them functional, efficient and viable. In this respect, the SODIDA
privatization process will be accelerated, inclusion of the Bourse nationale de Sous-Traitance et de
Partenariat Industriel (BNSTP) within the Agency will undergo a feasibility study and will benefit from
a new support policy to businesses relative to access to space facilities.
3.4.5. Harmonize funding to support public service missions under structures governed by
efficiency and results
The Government will ensure that the executing mechanism of public service missions for the promotion
of private sector's activities meet the following requirements: (i) allocate functions and finance missions
according to business community's needs; (ii) be streamlined, seek synergies, consistency and
complementarity at different layers; (iii) be independent with decision making power; (iv) be sustainable
at the institutional and financial level; (v) keep Government institutions efficient and focused to enable
them to accomplish fully their supervision and advisory missions by respecting a balance between public
and private representation; (vi) allow a fair access to their services at the national level; and (vii)
implement service contracts with the Government based on operation plan, performance standard, and
proper budget or non-budget resource allocations.
To ensure the sustainability of structure supporting the private sector, the Government is committed to
exploring, jointly with stakeholders, the possibility of adopting appropriate measures, including
non-financial compensation, through asset transfers and capitalization or financial participation of the
private sector. In addition, a measure to be considered is to partially reallocate the Contribution
Forfaitaire a la Charge de l'Employeur (CFCE) that goes to a matching-grant fund made available to
businesses that wish to strengthen their technical and management capabilities. This fund will, therefore,
represents a viable response to external structural assistance needs of SMEs. The fund will also
encourage support institutions, labor and professional organization to act as intermediaries and facilitate
private sector access.
The strengthening of small business capacities relies, above all, on its leaders' responsibilities who have
- 102 -



to work hard to reinforce internal functions and their adaptability to universal rule of management to
better adjust to a national and international environment characterized by an increased competitiveness.
In this respect, the support mechanism and labor organizations will have a stronger role to play in the
support they will have to provide to business leaders. The introduction of a social Charter in 2002, offers
to all business partners, such as the Government, management, and labor unions, a potential performing
framework enabling the promotion of perfornance and quality.
STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION
In its conception and implementation, the Development Strategy of the private sector remains consistent
with the Government fundamental policy with regard to Senegal's participation in the sub-regional and
global economues, to the protection of the environment, to communication, collaboration, and
coordination between the pubhc and the private sector.
4.1. Participation in the global and sub-regional economy
Senegal has always played an active role in the construction of the regional integration within UEMOA
and the CEDEAO and the Organization for African Union, which became Africa Union in 2002. Its
leading role was recently illustrated by the creation and the promotion of NEPAD. To maintain its
leading role the country has to develop a performing communication infrastructure between itself and
other countnes and has to strengthen the institutional framework to allow the private sector to participate
in the regional integration process. The strengthening of human and infrastructure capital should result
in the identification of better integration conditions and particularly those that proved to be successful in
the global economy. Similarly, a development strategy of the private sector will be implemented within
the international agreements of which, Senegal, is a signatory.
4.2. Public- private sector consultations
Consultations between the Government, labor and professional organizations will continue in order to: (i)
establish a dynamic partnership between the private sector and the Government, (ii) maintain a proper
framework to acknowledge and identify the difficulties and problems that the private sector is facing, (iii)
take shared decisions in order to improve the economic and social environment, and establish a dialogue
wit the different partners. At first, it would be appropriate to maintain a technical cooperation between
the operational levels of Government and private sector representatives. At the ministerial level,
technical committees have to be established in order to periodically examine the problems that hinders
the private sector initiative. The experience of the previous Focus Group on Competitiveness and Growth
should be integrated in the future so as to identify the problem requiring immediate attention, reach an
agreement between the public and the private sector on appropriate solutions, and ensure their
implementation.
The inaugural Presidential Investors Council meeting took place in November 2002. The Focus groups
created as a follow up on the conclusion of the first Council meeting also offer new opportunities in
defining a new operational framework which will evaluate, implement, supervise, and revaluate after the
implementation of proper measures aimed at improving the business environment and the
competitiveness of the pnvate sector. The priority of investors seem to be the simplification of
procedures on investment, business tax reform, improvement of mobility in Dakar, and the embracement
of other economic incentives that can be offered to investors.
The spirit of partnership, which is at the core of the development strategy of the private sector,
determines also the composition of the private sector supervision and the orientation of its support
-103 -



structures. This spirit is necessary to steer the strategy, and the programs and projects therein. In this
regard, it is strategically important for the implementation of the Development strategy of the private
sector that, on a yearly basis, a consultative forum invigorates this partnership and provides a venue for
assessing the achievements realized by existing structures. Finally, it is necessary to have access to
means of communication and to information on economic and social issues in order to keep all
stakeholder initiatives focused on the Development strategy sector objectives.
To implement the aforementioned development strategy of the pnvate sector, the Government is seeking
the World Bank assistance through the Private Investments Promotion project, supported by a credit in
the amount of 46 millions US dollars. This project will improve the business environment, create a
support fund for businesses and professional organizations, promote private investments in sectors
presenting a potential for growth, conduct structural and sectoral reforms to support the development of
pnvate initiatives. To implement the project, a steering and sectoral committees will be put in place and
will be in charge of the supervision of the overall and sectoral implementation in collaboration with the
project implementation unit. The participatory existing process (working groups, secotral committees
etc.) will continue during the execution of the different project activities.
- 104-



Fo  I, ,- .                             16'                  15, 50               ,                                        12.
AdaMu  SALhr"'        GERIA
man ahara I    ,/                                                  M  A U R I T A N I A
1AURITANIA                           Nouakchott                o                                                 PRIMARY ROADS
N ... li
M A L I                                                           'Po                                SECONDARY ROADS
-   -T- - --  u -,  .                     Ric ard gaoaer                                                    RAILROADS
SBNEGALIj ~~~~,7T NIGER                       TolLo0                                                            SELECTED TOWNS
Brv ms *~   - Sain-. /,tLacde                                  S A I N                                          &    REGION CAPITALS
GiflNEA-   ~~~~~~~~~~~~  (OaaBadon  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2"'( ~~~~~~~                         ~~  AIRPORTS
17  Louis   l      k \F--------------                     Thilogne>              ==REGION BOUNDARIES
Gandiol            Logbar        L 0 U I 5                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONA
m           MbLeoX _ < ~ W ~ < t / BOUNDARIESNfE
-15   CA   P   -   V    E     R    T   _, Ndindiingure
DAKAR      K  o  l   ES     e  -  ~'- _ / x,  1b .                                                             Kidio    o _    ,   /K  6   Ranero
-14'                                           oust.               /ling                                                                       1 '
*o~~~~~~~~~~~R     E     u      l        o nei O SG=F,Gu 
DA  a         iour     Kolo67:                                      T         UNDA                 2
A tla n tic                              bia  uin       Ndion BOW
012I                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denomnations and any other nformaton  12'
Ndofa ,  |  |   R  7 /                           u t F   o   ; shown on this map do not imply, on the port of The World Bank Group,
KousILOMETERs--ana-/   5   } any judgment on thelesgal status of any terrdtory, or any endorsement
Mc        mb~~~~~rac epanenfduc onare           MAL









Report No.:        25811  SE
Type:     PAD



