Page  1
CONFORMED COPY       
 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3762 SE
 
Agreement Providing for  
Amendment and Restatement  
of the Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Private Investment Promotion Project)
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 5, 2010 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3762 SE
 
AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR  
AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF 
THE DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 5, 2010 between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) (the Agreement to Amend and Restate the Development Finance 
Agreement). 
WHEREAS the Recipient and the Association have agreed to amend and restate 
the Development Credit Agreement (the “DCA”) dated June 13, 2003 between the 
Recipient and the Association, in the manner hereinafter set forth. 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
 
Section 1.01. 
As of, and with effect from, the effective date of this Agreement 
pursuant to Section 1.02 hereof, the DCA shall be (and is hereby) amended and restated 
in the form set out in the Annex hereto. 
Section 1.02. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution 
and delivery hereof by the parties hereto.  
 
Page  3
2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D.C. and Dakar, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
By  //s// ____________________ 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  __________________ 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  4
3
ANNEX 
To Agreement providing for Amendment and Restatement of the  
Development Credit Agreement 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3762 SE
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Private Investment Promotion Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 13, 2003 
 
Page  5
4
CREDIT NUMBER 3762 SE
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 13, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).   
WHEREAS: 
(A) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist 
in the financing of the Project;  
 (B) 
the Association has received from the Recipient a Letter of Sector Policy 
dated April 2, 2003, describing therein a program of actions, objectives, and policies  
(the Program) designed to stimulate a sustained increase in private sector investments in 
the Recipient’s economy, thereby fostering economic development and contributing to 
poverty alleviation,
 
and declaring therein the
 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of 
the Program; and 
 
(C) 
the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement. 
 
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
thirty-three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
Page  6
5
33,800,000)
 (variously, “Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”); 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
2.08.  
(a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
for: (a) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) amounts paid (or, 
if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made to a 
Beneficiary under a Matching Grant Agreement in respect of the reasonable costs 
of services to be financed under Part B.2  of the Project, and in respect of which 
the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested, and (iii) as regards Risk 
Sharing Facilities, in accordance with the Appendix to this Agreement. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
FCFA two special deposit accounts (Designated Account A and Designated 
Account B) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of each 
respective Designated Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  7
6
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02 
The Recipient shall: (i) carry out Part B.4 of the Project through the International 
Finance Corporation in accordance with the Risk Sharing Framework Agreement 
and the Risk Sharing Facility Agreements; (ii) perform all its obligations and take 
all actions necessary on its part to enable the International Finance Corporation to 
perform all the International Finance Corporation’s obligations under said 
agreements; (iii) not take, or permit to be taken, any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance; and (iv) except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, 
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof; 
3.03 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Section, and except 
as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project, with the exception of Part B.4 of the Project,
 
in accordance 
with Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3.04.   Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Recipient shall for the purposes of the Project: 
(a)  
open and maintain, until the completion of the Project, an account in 
FCFA in its Treasury (the Project Account), on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
promptly thereafter deposit into the Project Account an initial amount in 
FCFA 40,000,000 (the Initial Deposit); 
(c) 
thereafter, by March 1 each Project Year, deposit into the Project 
Account  such amounts required to finance the Recipient’s contribution 
for expenditures under the Project for the following PY as shall be 
agreed between the Recipient and the Association; and 
 
(d) 
ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account pursuant to 
paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be used only to finance expenditures 
under the Project which are not otherwise financed or to be financed by 
the Credit. 
 
Page  8
7
3.05 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
(b) 
the Recipient, or the International Finance Corporation, shall have failed 
to perform any of their obligations under the Risk Sharing Framework 
Agreement; and 
(c) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Recipient, or the International Finance 
Corporation, will be able to perform any of their respective obligations 
under the Risk Sharing Framework Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
the Recipient has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, including 
a
manual of administrative, financial and accounting procedures and a 
project implementation plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; 
 
(b)  
the Recipient has established the PSC, fully operational, and the PMU, 
both as referred to in Schedule24 to this Agreement, and has appointed to 
the staff of PMU a Project Unit Manager, a Financial and Administrative 
Manager, a Procurement Specialist and, an Accountant, all in accordance 
with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
 
(c) 
the Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit paid into the 
Project Account;  
 
Page  9
8
(d) 
the Recipient has established and caused to be established a financial 
management and accounting system for the Project, satisfactory to the 
Association;  
 
(e) 
the Recipient has furnished to the Association a procurement plan for the 
first Project Year, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
and 
 
(f) 
the Recipient has appointed the independent auditor referred to in 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
Except as provided in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Recipient’s 
Representative is the Minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance  
 
Rue René N'diaye 
 B.P. 
4017 
 
Dakar 
 Senegal 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
 
MINIFINANCES  
 
3203 
G 
Dakar 
 
Page  10
9
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
Page  11
10 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Paris, France, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL 
 
By 
  //S// 
Abdoulaye 
Diop 
  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
  //S// 
 
McDonald 
Benjamin 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
11 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
As of the Restructuring Date, the objective of the Project is to create the 
conditions to increase private investment in the country of the Recipient through an 
improved investment climate, greater private participation in economic activities, and 
policy and sector reforms. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Improving the Investment Climate
1. 
Improving the Legal Environment and Building Capacity in the Judiciary
Support to CEPOD and the MOJ, including for: 
(a) 
 preparing a multi-year sector expenditure program for the Judiciary and its 
integration into the Recipient’s national budget, and formulating medium-
to-long-term standards, output and outcome indicators, budget and capacity 
building requirements for the Judiciary to improve delivery of services;  
(b)  preparing anti-money-laundering legislation applicable to all public and 
private sector operators, including banks and insurance companies, pursuant 
to the enabling framework adopted by BCEAO;  
(c) 
strengthening the existing arbitration center at the Recipient’s Chamber of 
Commerce; 
(d) 
preparing trademark and other intellectual property legislation; and 
(e)  supporting the drafting other business laws and carrying out of training 
programs on business laws for legal professionals, all within the context of 
the OHADA legal framework.  
2. 
Enhancing the Business Environment
(a)  Removing the Administrative and Regulatory Barriers to Investment 
Page  13
12 
 
Support to APIX and MOF in: (i) modernizing the commercial registry ; and (ii) 
removing specific regulatory and administrative constraints for business entry and 
operations, including, 
inter alia,
 streamlining issuing processes for work and residency 
documentation for foreign business operators, and simplifying operational procedures 
applicable to selected industries.  
(b) Tax 
Reform 
Support to MOF in: (i) rationalizing tax exception regimes; (ii) implementing 
general tax reforms; (iii) building the capacity of the tax Directorate and (iv) eliminating 
and reducing certain taxes, fees and levies applicable to certain sectors, all with a view to 
reducing and rationalizing tax-induced distortions and lowering the effective tax burden 
on private investments.      
3. Facilitating 
Trade 
[
Per memoria
]
4. 
Training of Staff of Regulatory Agencies and selected institutions 
[
Per memoria
]
5. 
Public / Private Consultative Process
Support to APIX in organizing regular meetings of the Presidential Investment 
Council and establishing other public/private sector consultation fora in relation to the 
objectives and activities to be implemented under the Project, and carrying out diagnostic 
studies of the mechanisms for facilitating public-private sector dialogue. 
Part B
:
Facilitating Private Participation and Enhancing Competitiveness
1. 
Fostering increased Investment
(a) 
Support to APIX 
Support to the operations and activities of APIX under the Project, through 
training, acquisition of goods and equipment and provision of technical advisory services. 
2. 
Matching Grants for Improved Private Sector Competitiveness
The provision of financing to Beneficiaries through Matching Grants for: (a) the 
contracting of technical advisory services and training in, 
inter alia, 
technical learning, 
competitiveness and know-how enhancement activities; and (b) designing, organizing 
and carrying out training programs.
 
Page  14
13 
 
3. 
Capacity Building for Private Associations
Capacity building of private associations to: (a) enhance their capacity to develop 
sound business plans; and (b) develop services targeted to their members so as to improve 
their sustainability and;
 
4. 
Risk Sharing Program
Strengthening the capacities of commercial banks to provide medium- and long-
term financing to small and medium enterprises, through: 
 
(a) the provision by the Recipient of  first-loss credit coverage on portfolios of 
small and medium enterprise and / or microfinance institution loans 
originated and held by Participating Banks through Risk Sharing Facilities to 
be established by the International Finance Corporation and such 
Participating Banks, pursuant to which the International Finance 
Corporation, as facility agent acting on behalf of both the Recipient and the 
International Finance Corporation, will provide risk coverage on a 
pari passu
 
basis with each Participating Bank; and 
 
(b) the provision of technical advisory services and training to Participating 
Banks in relation to small and medium enterprise and / or microfinance 
institution lending. 
 
Part C
:
Stimulating Sector Investment and Implementing Sector Policy Reforms
1. Pension 
Reform 
Support to MOF and the MOT in: (a) carrying out technical and financial audits 
of the Recipient’s 
Fonds National de Retraite
 and 
Institution de Prévoyance Retraite du 
Sénégal
 pension plans respectively; (b) devising and carrying out ensuing strategy plans 
for ensuring viability and sustainability of the Recipient’s pension system, including, 
inter alia
,
investment and coverage issues and benefit payments strategy; and (c) carrying 
out studies, workshops and training to support the reforms and build capacity therefor for 
pension contributors and pension plan staff. 
2. Development 
of 
Tourism 
Support to the MOTS for: (a) strengthening tourism inside the territory of the 
Recipient, including through the preparation of an environmentally, culturally and 
socially sustainable sector strategy and associated master plans; and (b) building relevant 
capacity in selected staff of MOTS.  
Page  15
14 
 
3. 
Promotion of the Music Industry 
 
Support to the MOCC and Association of Musicians for: (a) the completion of 
the modernizing of the copyright legislation in the music industry, including the 
preparation and dissemination of the and decrees  which complement such legislation; (b) 
carrying out training programs and advocacy work on the legal framework applicable to 
musical copyrighting for concerned artists, staff of relevant ministries; (c) carrying out of 
training programs for musical archive specialists, organizing the musical archives 
through electronic archiving systems such that music can be accessible virtually via the 
Internet, and developing and broadcasting musical radio programs; and (d) designing a 
strategy for establishing a private commercial venture ensuring Senegalese artists’ 
copyrighted musical content accessibility over the Internet.
 
Part D
:
Supporting Project Implementation and Capacity Building therefor
1. 
Support to APIX 
Provision of support to project implementation team within APIX for the 
administration, procurement, financial management and monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project, including training in relation thereto. 
2. 
Public Information and Communication Campaign 
 
Support to MOF and APIX to carry out public communication, radio and 
television programs on issues related to the Project, and training journalists on economic 
matters. 
3. 
Support to CEPOD 
Support to CEPOD for: (a) carrying out studies on competitiveness issues and 
monitoring economic developments; and (b) the acquisition of limited amount of books 
and materials for the a documentation center. 
4. 
Dissemination of Procurement Regulations Information 
 
Support to MOF and ARMP for: (a) the setting up of the ARMP; (b) carrying out 
training programs for both public and private sector institutions on the Recipient’s public 
procurement regulations, procedures and institutions; (c) disseminating information on 
bidding opportunities through a procurement bulletin and website; (d) carrying out 
information programs and fora to improve the private sector’s ability to compete for and 
Page  16
15 
 
execute contracts in an effective and transparent fashion; (e) finance the technical 
assistance to undertake the ex post procurement audits of public entities. 
Page  17
16 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation and Institutional Arrangements
A
.
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The Recipient shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Association a Project 
Implementation Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, the said 
manual being subject from time to time to modification by agreement between the 
Recipient and the Association; (b) carry out the Project in accordance with the PIM; and 
(c) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not amend, abrogate or waive any 
provision of the PIM which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project or the achievement of the objectives 
thereof. 
 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Paragraph 1 of this Section, the PIM 
shall include: (a) a Project implementation plan; (b) a Project monitoring and evaluation 
plan; (c) a Project procurement plan; (d) a Project financial management manual; (e) a 
Project procedures manual setting forth eligibility criteria for Beneficiaries, terms and 
conditions for Matching Grant Agreements, including the procurement, financial and 
monitoring aspects in respect thereof; and (f) such other administrative, financial, 
technical and organizational arrangements as shall be required for the Project. 
B. Institutional 
Arrangements
1. 
Project Steering Committee 
(a) 
The Recipient shall establish and thereafter maintain at all times during 
the implementation of the Project, a Project Steering Committee, in form and with 
membership, functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Paragraph 1 (a) of this Section, 
the PSC shall be responsible for, 
inter alia
:
(i) carrying out of annual reviews of 
proposals, work plans and budgets prepared by APIX and ensuring their consistency with 
the Program; (ii) reviewing the progress made towa
rds achieving the Project’s objectives; 
(iii) facilitating the coordination of Project activities among the entities represented in the 
PSC, and making recommendations for removal of any barriers to the achievement of the 
Project’s objectives; and (iv) providing comments on reports and reviews prepared by 
APIX for the benefit of the Association. 
Page  18
17 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Paragraph 1 (a) of this Section, 
the PSC shall be: (i) headed by a Chairperson; and (ii) composed of not more than nine 
members duly representing the Recipient’s line ministries, agencies participating in the 
Project, and the private sector. 
2. APIX 
(a) 
The Recipient shall establish and thereafter maintain at all times during 
the implementation of the Project, a Project team within APIX, in form and with 
functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association which shall be under the 
administrative authority, and subject to the monitoring and supervision of PSC, to which 
it will report on a semiannual basis. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Paragraph 1 (a) of this Section, 
APIX shall be responsible for: (i) the implementation of Parts B.2, and D of the Project; 
and (ii) the overall coordination of the Project, including procurement, financial 
management, internal audit, and monitoring and evaluation in relation thereto. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Paragraph 1(a) of this Section, 
the Project team within APIX shall consist of the following key staff with terms of 
reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association: (i) a Project 
Coordinator; (ii) a Procurement Specialist; (iii) a Financial and Administrative Manager; 
and (v) a team specifically in charge of administering Matching Grants, who shall all be 
appointed to, and maintained in, APIX in accordance with the provisions of Section III of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with work performance and ethics satisfactory to the 
Recipient and the Association. 
C. Matching 
Grants 
1. General 
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section I of this Schedule, the 
Recipient, represented by APIX, shall administer the Matching Grants through the 
Matching Grants Management Team, in accordance with the provisions and procedures 
set forth in this Section III and in more detail in the PIM, and accordingly, the Matching 
Grants Management Team  shall appraise, and monitor the activities under Part B.2 of the 
Project which shall be approved as referred to in paragraph 2 (d) of this Section. 
2. 
Eligibility Criteria for Extending Matching Grants 
Page  19
18 
 
(a) 
All private business operators in all sectors of the Recipient’s economy 
shall be eligible to apply for Matching Grants which shall be made on a "first-come, first-
served" basis.  The Matching Grant activity shall qualify either as consultant services or 
training under Part B.2  of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For an applicant to qualify for a Matching Grant, it must: (i) have a plan 
for building competitiveness and business outgrowth and capacity in relation thereto; (ii) 
incorporate in the plan's design, features enabling the plan’s outputs to be measured and 
verified; (iii) furnish sufficient evidence showing that the activity to be financed from the 
Matching Grant is likely to strengthen and improve said private business operator’s 
performance under its business plan; and (iv) furnish with its application such other 
evidence as the Recipient shall, with the prior agreement of the Association, reasonably 
request. 
 
(c) 
A Matching Grant shall not be made to any one private business operator 
in an aggregate amount exceeding CFAF 70,000,000; said amount being subject to 
modification by the Recipient in consultation with the Association. 
 
(d) 
(i) The PSC shall approve each proposal for a Matching Grant in 
an amount exceeding FCFA 35,000,000; and (ii)  Matching Grants Management 
Team  shall approve each proposal for Matching Grants in an amount not 
exceeding  FCFA 35,000,000. The Recipient may, 
with the prior agreement of the 
Association, modify the procedures described in this paragraph for the approval of 
Matching Grants. 
 
(e) 
The contribution of a private sector business operator to the costs of 
procuring technical advisory services and training to be financed out of proceeds of a 
Matching Grant shall be 50% of the value of the services financed out of the Matching 
Grant. 
 
3. 
Terms and Conditions of Matching Grants:
 
(a) 
Matching Grant activities shall be carried out pursuant to a Matching Grant 
Agreement, to be concluded between APIX, representing the Recipient, and the 
Beneficiary, under terms and conditions described in more detail in the PIM and 
satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the following:  
(i) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to: (A) carry out the Matching 
Grant activities with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, business, financial, managerial 
and administrative practices, including the Safeguards 
Instruments and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to 
Page  20
19 
 
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Recipient; and (B) 
maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the resources and expenditures used in 
carrying out the Matching Grant activities; 
(ii) 
the requirement that the consultants’ services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Matching Grant be procured in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Section III  of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Matching Grant activities;  
(iii) 
the right of the Recipient to: (A) inspect by itself, or jointly with 
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the activities 
financed by the Matching Grants; (B) obtain all information as 
the Recipient or the Association shall reasonably request 
regarding the administration, operation and financial conditions 
of the Matching Grant activities; and (C) suspend or terminate 
the right of any Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Matching 
Grant or to obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the 
Sub-grant then withdrawn,  upon failure by the Beneficiary to 
perform any of its obligations under the Matching Grant 
Agreement; and 
(iv) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Matching Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect its interests and the 
interests of the Association and accomplish the purposes of the 
Project, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Beneficiary shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Matching Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
D. Anti-Corruption 
 
As of the Restructuring Date, the Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried 
out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Page  21
20 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date 
3. Midterm 
Review 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall carry out, jointly with the Association, not later than 
December 31, 2005, a comprehensive midterm review aimed at: (i) documenting progress 
toward Project objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to Project 
implementation; and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, targets and 
corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the implementation of the Project 
as of the date of the review.  
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall, not later than four weeks prior to the review referred 
to in Paragraph 3 (a) of this Section, furnish to the Association a midterm report, in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress 
achieved in Project implementation. 
 
(c) 
Promptly after completing the midterm review, the Recipient shall take 
all measures required to fulfill the recommendations arising out of said review, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account 
the Association’s comments thereon. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  22
21 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made under 
the Preparation Advance for the Project.  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months 
after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services other 
than Consultants’ Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods, works 
and services other than Consultants’ Services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services other than 
Consultants’ Services.
 The following table specifies the methods of 
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be used 
for goods, works and services other than C
onsultants’ Services.  The 
Page  23
22 
 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c) 
Procurement from United Nations Agencies 
C. Pa
rticular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Least Cost Selection 
(b)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  Single-source Selection 
(d) Commercial Practices 
(e) Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
As of the Restructuring Date, the Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the 
Financing in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General 
Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement 
Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the 
Association and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below. 
Page  24
23 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(1)  Works 
400,000 
100% of foreign expenditures and 
90% of local expenditures 
(2)  Goods 
 
 
(a)  under Part C.2(2) of the 
Project 
0
50% 
(b) Other 
8,700,000 
100% of foreign expenditures and 
90% of local expenditures 
(3)  Consultants’ services and 
audits 
 
(a)  under Part B.1of the 
Project 
0
50% 
(b)  under Part B.2of the 
Project 
1,650,000 
50% 
(c) Other 
13,540,000 
100% of foreign expenditures and 
90% of local expenditures 
(4)  Training and workshops 
4,700,000 
100% of foreign expenditures and 
90% of local expenditures 
(5)  Operating costs 
2,200,000 
90% 
(6)  Refund of Preparation 
Advance 
1,210,000 
Amount due pursuant to Section 
2.02(c) of this Agreement 
(7)   Risk Sharing Facility 
1,400,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
(8)  Unallocated 
0 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
33,800,000 
 
Page  25
24 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for works, goods or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; provided, however, that if the 
currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the territory of which the 
works, goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or 
services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for works, goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenditures incurred 
on account of: (i) office rental expenses, supplies, maintenance costs, utilities and, 
consumables; (ii) vehicle operation and maintenance; (iii) communication and insurance 
costs; (iv) staff travel and associated subsistence allowances and supervision costs; and 
(v) salaries of support contractual staff for the Project, but excluding salaries of officials 
of the Recipient’s civil service. 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Agreement, it is understood between the 
Recipient and the Association that the percentages of expenditures to be financed under: 
(i) Category (3) of the table set forth in paragraph A.2 of Section IV of this Schedule 
have been calculated on the basis of the provisions of a letter from the MOF dated 
January 30, 2003, which provides for an exemption of income taxes, including any 
withholding tax in respect thereof, VAT and custom duties levied in the territory of the 
Recipient on foreign expenditures related to provisions of services of foreign consultants 
(firms or individuals) recruited for the Project; and (ii) Categories (1), (2), (4) and (5) of 
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis of the 
relevant provisions of Law No. 92-40 dated July 9, 1992 of the Recipient, as amended to 
date, including, but not limited to, articles 308 (e) and 685 (iii) thereof, which together 
provide for an exemption of taxes and duties levied in the territory of the Recipient on 
foreign expenditures related to the procurement of works and goods for the Project.  
(e) 
In the event of any change to the provisions referred to above which has 
the effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such services or increasing the 
percentages of expenditures to be financed under this Agreement for works and goods, 
the Association shall decrease the percentages referred to in the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule by notice to the Recipient in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions.
 
Page  26
25 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 1,900,000 may be 
made on account of payments made for eligible expenditures before that date but after 
November 1, 2002; 
(b) 
expenditures under Category (3) (a) unless the Association has been 
furnished with a business plan for the period of 2009-2011, including budget, work 
program and indicators, satisfactory to the Association, and duly approved by the 
Recipient and the APIX executive committee; 
(c) 
expenditures under Category (3) (b) unless: (i) Matching Grants 
Agreements have been made in accordance with  Schedule 2 to this Agreement and with 
the PIM, as evidenced by the first such three (3) Matching Grant Agreements furnished to 
the association for its prior approval; and (ii) a
 
team of specialists able to administer the 
Matching Grants, with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association has 
been employed in APIX; 
(d) 
any Risk Sharing Facility under Category (7), unless: (i) the Risk Sharing 
Facility Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, for such Risk 
Sharing Facility, has been duly executed, and authorized or ratified by, and is legally 
binding upon, the parties thereto in accordance with its terms, and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness, except only the disbursement, pursuant to the Appendix to 
this Agreement, of the proceeds of the Credit for such Risk Sharing Facility, have been 
fulfilled or waived; (ii) the Risk Sharing Facility Trust Fund for such Risk Sharing 
Facility has been established on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; and 
(iii) the respective Participating Bank is, or has been, a beneficiary under Part B.5 of the 
Project. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
The Recipient shall, not later than three months prior to the Closing Date for the 
Project: (a) carry out a detailed independent impact assessment of the Project, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association; and (b) furnish to the Association the report 
of such assessment. 
Page  27
26 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall, not later than June 30, 2005, and June 30, 2007, 
respectively: (a) carry out an operational audit of the Project, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the association; (b) furnish the report of each such audit to the Association; 
and (c) following each such audit, act promptly to take all measures identified by the 
audit. 
3. 
The Recipient shall carry out or cause to be carried out, not later than  
December 31 in each FY, financial and technical audits of all entities involved in Project 
implementation, and furnish such other reports, records, accounts and financial 
statements, of such scope and in such detail, as the association shall reasonably request. 
4. 
The Recipient shall cause APIX to furnish to the Association: (a) by the end of 
each calendar semester, a progress report on the implementation of APIX business plan 
and key monitoring indicators, satisfactory in form and substance to the association; and 
(b) APIX’s business plan not later than July 30, 2010, containing performance indicators 
and an annual budget and satisfactory in form and substance to the association. 
Page  28
27 
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
commencing July 15, 2013 to and including and 
ending January 15, 2023 
1% 
commencing July 15, 2023  to and including January 
15, 2043 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  29
28 
 
SCHEDULE 4 
Designated Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) (a), (2)(b), 
(3)(a), (3)(c), (4), (5) and (7) set forth in the table in Paragraph A.2 of Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement in respect of Designated Account A; and Category (3) (b) 
set forth in the table in Paragraph A.2 of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement in 
respect of Designated Account B; 
 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to  
FCFA 1,700,000,000 in respect of Designated Account A and an amount equivalent to  
FCFA 300,000,000 in respect of Designated Account B, to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Designated Accounts pursuant to Paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to FCFA 850,000,000 in 
respect of Designated Account A and an amount equivalent to FCFA 150,000,000 in 
respect of Designated Account B, until: (i) in respect of Designated Account A, the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
4,000,000; and (ii) in respect of Designated Account B, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 400,000.  
2. 
Payments out of the respective Designated Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Designated Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Designated Account shall be made as 
follows: 
Page  30
29 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Designated 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective 
Designated Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Designated Account, 
the Recipient shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Designated Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to Paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Designated Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Designated Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Designated 
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment 
was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Designated Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions and Paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.08 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in schedule 2 of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required 
Page  31
30 
 
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Designated Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Designated Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
2.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Designated Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Designated Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to Paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the respective Designated Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into any Designated Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Designated Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Designated Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to Paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account, as the case may be, for 
Page  32
31 
 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
Page  33
32 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating 
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in Section III of this 
Appendix. 
2. “APIX” means 
Agence Nationale Chargée de l’Investissement et des Grands 
Travaux,
 an entity established and operating under Decret 2000-562 of the Recipient 
dated July 10, 2000, and amended by Law 2007-33 of December 31, 2007, which is 
responsible for the investment promotion activities in the Recipient’s territory;  
3. “ARMP 
» means 
Autor
ité de Régulation des Marchés Publics
,
the Recipient’s 
national procurement agency created pursuant to the AMRP Legislation. 
4. “BCEAO” means 
Banque Centrale des Etats d’Afrique de l’Ouest, 
the Recipient’s 
central bank; 
5. “Beneficiary” means a private sector business operator registered under the 
Recipient’s laws, whether firm or individual, which has met the eligibility criteria 
specified in Section I.C.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in the Project 
Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined) and, as a result, has been extended, 
or is to be extended, a Matching Grant (as hereinafter defined) for the carrying out of 
activities under Part B.2  of the Project; and “Beneficiaries” means each such 
Beneficiary collectively;  
6. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
7. “CEPOD” means 
Centre d’Etudes de Politiques de Développement, 
a
think-tank 
within MOF, responsible for facilitating and monitoring the Recipient’s policy 
reforms in relation to the execution of the Program.  
8.  “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
9. “FCFA” 
means 
Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine
,
the currency of the 
Recipient; 
Page  34
33 
 
10. 
“FIAS 2001” means the 2001 report on taxation issues of the Foreign Investment 
Advisory Services of the Association;  
11. “Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Recipient commencing January 1 and 
ending December 31 in the same year; 
12. “General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 
15, 2006) , with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
13. “Initial Deposit” means the amount to be deposited in the Project Account pursuant 
to Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
14. “Matching Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Recipient, 
through APIX, out of the proceeds of the Credit to a Beneficiary, for the purpose of 
financing activities under Part B.2 of the Project; 
15. “Matching Grant Agreement” means an agreement between a Beneficiary and APIX 
representing the Recipient, and setting forth the terms and conditions under which a 
Matching Grant shall be made available to a Beneficiary for the purpose of financing 
activities under Part B.2  of the Project; 
16. “Matching Grant Management Team” means the team recruited by the Recipient to 
manage the Matching Grants under Part B.2 of the Project 
17. “MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Economy and Finance; 
18. “MOCC” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Culture and Communication; 
19. “MOJ” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Justice;  
20. “MOT” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Labour; 
21. “MOTS” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Tourism; 
22. “OHADA” means 
 Organisation pour l’Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires en 
Afrique, 
an organization created by treaty for the modernization and harmonization of 
commercial laws in Africa, ratified by the Recipient, and 
 
“OHADA Laws” means the uniform laws (
Actes Uniformes) 
applicable in member 
countries with respect to business, corporate and commercial laws, including, 
inter 
Page  35
34 
 
alia,
 insolvency proceedings, asset collateralization, and settlement of commercial 
disputes; 
 
23. 
“PIAC” means the Recipient’s Presidential Investors Advisory Council,  an advisory 
council established in the year 2002 under the authority of the office of the President 
and responsible for public/ private policy consultations in the territory of the 
Recipient;  
 
24. “Participating Bank” means, individually, a commercial bank, established and 
operating pursuant to the laws of the Recipient, which has met the eligibility criteria 
specified in the Risk Sharing Framework Agreement (as hereinafter defined) and as a 
result has received a Risk Sharing Facility (as hereinafter defined) under Part B.5 of 
the Project; and “Participating Banks” means, collectively, more than one (1) 
Participating Bank; 
 
25. “Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of the General 
Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter 
agreements signed on behalf of the Association on April 3, 2001 and May 30, 2002,  
and on behalf of the Recipient on April 10, 2001 and June 13, 2002, respectively; 
26. “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October, 2006 
and May 2010. 
27. “Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, covering 
18 months of Project implementation and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
28. “Project Account” means the account to be opened pursuant to Section 3.03(a) of this 
Agreement; 
29. “Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual referred to in Section 
I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
30. “Project Steering Committee” or “PSC” means the committee referred to in 
Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
31. “Project Year” or “PY” means ” each twelve-month period during Project 
implementation, starting from the day after the Effective Date and ending twelve 
calendar months thereafter,  and each subsequent twelve calendar month period after 
it; 
 
Page  36
35 
 
32. 
“Restructuring Date” means the date that the conditions 
 
to effectiveness set forth in Article 1.2 of this the Agreement Providing for the 
Amendment and Restatement of the Development Credit Agreement are satisfied; 
 
33. “Risk Sharing Facility” means, individually, a risk sharing facility in respect of small 
and medium enterprise and / or microfinance institution loans originated and held by 
a
Participating Bank financed or to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
under Part B.5 of the Project; and “Risk Sharing Facilities” means, collectively, more 
than one (1) Risk Sharing Facility; 
 
34. “Risk Sharing Facility Agreement” means an agreement between the International 
Finance Corporation and a Participating Bank in relation to the sharing of credit risk 
over a portfolio of small and medium enterprise and / or microfinance institution 
loans to be originated and held by such Participating Bank; and “Risk Sharing 
Facility Agreements” means, collectively, more than one (1) Risk Sharing Facility 
Agreement; 
 
35. “Risk Sharing Facility Trust Fund” means, in respect of each Risk Sharing Facility, 
the relevant trust fund in which amounts relating thereto disbursed pursuant to the 
Appendix to this Agreement, together with any interest and fees earned by the 
Recipient in respect of such Facility, shall be held pending payment of any claims 
under such Facility; and “Risk Sharing Facility Trust Funds” means, collectively, 
more than one (1) Risk Sharing Facility Trust Fund; 
 
36. “Risk Sharing Framework Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association, the International Finance Corporation, and the Recipient in relation to 
the sharing of credit risk over portfolios of small and medium enterprise and / or 
microfinance institution loans, as the same may be modified from time to time by 
written agreement among said parties; 
 
37. “Designated Account A” means the special deposit account opened for withdrawals 
by the Recipient in respect of expenditures made under Parts A, B.1, B.3, B.4, C and 
D
of
the Project and referred to in Section 2.08 (b) of this Agreement;  
38. “Designated Account B” means the special deposit account opened for withdrawals 
by the Recipient in respect of expenditures made under Part B.2 of the Project and 
referred to in Section 2.08 (b) of this Agreement; and 
39. “Designated Accounts” means Designated Account A and Designated Account B
 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the Association, 
dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
Page  37
36 
 
1. 
Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (i) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Association 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Association or the Bank has declared the Project 
Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the 
Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or 
the Bank, as a result of: (i) a determination by the Association or the Bank that 
the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Association or the Bank; and/or (ii) a declaration by another 
financier that the Project Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of 
financings made by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation 
or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as 
a
result of a determination by such financier that the Project Implementing Entity 
has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection 
with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 “‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
Page  38
37 
 
Section III.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Recipients (other than the Member Country) and all other 
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the 
Recipient or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Recipient or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13)
 a Recipient (other than a Member Country) (
fn 14) 
or an individual or 
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Recipient, individual or entity 
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be 
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, 
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise 
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines 
(fn 15) 
that such Recipient, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Recipient or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a 
Bank financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings 
pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the 
procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in 
connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction 
Page  39
38 
 
by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross 
debarment agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that 
the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid 
under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under 
paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, 
for the purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the 
Sanctions Board sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. 
In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal protocol outlining the 
process to be followed in implementing debarments by other financiers, 
and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s 
website and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.”
 
