                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR2368



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA-37620)



                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.80 MILLION
                           (US$46 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                         FOR A

                    PRIVATE INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT



                                   September 26, 2012




Finance and Private Sector Development Department
AFCF1
Africa Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2011)

                    Currency Unit     =    CFA Franc (CFAF)
                      CFAF 1.00       =    US$0.002
                         US$1.00      =    SDR 1.59

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 – December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD       Agence Française de Développement
APIX      Agence Nationale Chargée de la Promotion de l'Investissement et des Grands
          Travaux
ARTP      Autorité de Régulation des Télécommunications et des Postes
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF      CFA franc
CFR       Country Framework Report
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
EU        European Union
FIAS      Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FMS       Financial Management Systems
FNR       Fonds National de Retraite
FSAP      Financial Sector Assessment Report
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GOS       Government of Senegal
ICT       Information and Communication Technologies
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IPRES     Institution de Prévoyance Retraite du Sénégal
IT        Information Technology
MDGs      Millennium Development Goals
MIGA      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NPV       Net Present Value
PIPP      Private Investment Promotion Project
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PPA       Project Preparation Advance
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSD       Private Sector Development
SME       Small and Medium Enterprise
SMEs      Small and Medium-size Enterprises
SONACOS   Société Nationale des Oléagineux du Sénégal
UEMOA     Union Economique et Monétaire des Etats de l 'Afrique de l 'Ouest (West Africa
          Economic and Monetary Union)
UPE      Unité de Politique Economique
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
UTNACOIS Union Nationale des Commerçants et Industriels du Sénégal




                              Vice President:   Makhtar Diop
                            Country Director:   Vera Songwe
                             Sector Manager:    Paul Noumba Um
                        Project Team Leader:    Korotoumou Ouattara
                           ICR Team Leader:     Magueye Dia
                                              REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                                         Private Investment Promotion Project



                                                              CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1.  Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1 
  2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................... 5 
  3.  Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................... 12 
  4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...................................................... 20 
  5.  Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................. 20 
  6.  Lessons Learned..................................................................................................... 24 
  7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........ 25 
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 26 
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27 
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 31 
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 32 
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 35 
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36 
  Annex 7. Executive Summary of Borrower's ICR........................................................ 37 
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 47 
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 48 
  Map ............................................................................................................................... 49 
                                               Data Sheet


A. Basic Information
                                                                                SN-Priv Inv Promotion
Country:                  Senegal                     Project Name:
                                                                                SIL (FY03)
Project ID:               P051609                     L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-37620
ICR Date:                 04/17/2012                  ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:       SIL                         Borrower:                 GOVT. OF SENEGAL
Original Total
                          XDR 33.80M                  Disbursed Amount:         XDR 26.99M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           XDR 29.52M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Agence National Chargée de la Promotion de l’Investissement et des Grands
Travaux
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Not applicable.

B. Key Dates
                                                                                      Revised / Actual
      Process               Date                 Process            Original Date
                                                                                          Date(s)
Concept Review:           04/13/1999       Effectiveness:              02/26/2004          02/26/2004
Appraisal:                02/12/2003       Restructuring(s):                               07/14/2010
Approval:                 05/20/2003       Mid-term Review:            07/11/2006          07/11/2006
                                           Closing:                    12/31/2008          12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                          Moderate
Bank Performance:                                     Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
            Bank                    Ratings                    Borrower                  Ratings
                                                                                Moderately
Quality at Entry:         Unsatisfactory              Government:
                                                                                Unsatisfactory
                                                      Implementing              Moderately
Quality of Supervision:   Moderately unsatisfactory
                                                      Agency/Agencies:          Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                          Overall Borrower          Moderately
                          Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                          Performance:              Unsatisfactory
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                                      QAG Assessments (if
                                     Indicators                                              Rating
      Performance                                              any)
 Potential Problem Project                               Quality at Entry
                               No                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                                    (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                             Quality of Supervision
                             Yes                                                None
(Yes/No):                                                (QSA):
DO rating before               Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:       Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                            Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance                                 7                       7
General industry and trade sector                                            43                      43
General public administration sector                                         25                      25
Postal services                                                              10                      10
Telecommunications                                                           15                      15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                        29                     29
Legal institutions for a market economy                                       14                     14
Personal and property rights                                                  14                     14
Regulation and competition policy                                             29                     29
Tax policy and administration                                                 14                     14

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                              At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:                Makhtar Diop                            Calisto E. Madavo
Country Director:              Vera Songwe                             John MacIntire
Sector Manager:                Paul Noumba Um                          Demba Ba
Project Team Leader:           Korotoumou Ouattara                     Iraj A. Alikhani
ICR Team Leader:               Magueye Dia
ICR Primary Author:            Magueye Dia
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Create the conditions to stimulate a sustained increase in private investment through an improved
investment climate, greater private participation in economic activities, and policy and sector
reform. The project was expected to make important incremental contributions towards attaining
the 8 percent GDP growth called for in the Government poverty alleviation program.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Create the conditions to increase private investment. This will be accomplished through an
improved investment climate, greater private participation in economic activities, and policy and
sector reforms.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                   Original Target
                                                                           Formally    Actual Value Achieved
                                                    Values (from
     Indicator           Baseline Value                                 Revised Target   at Completion or
                                                      approval
                                                                             Values        Target Years
                                                     documents)
Indicator 1:       100 new firms with investment incentives start operating.
Value
(quantitative or   75                            100                                    772
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2009                    12/31/2011                             12/31/2011
Comments
                                                                                        Indicator met and
(incl. %
                                                                                        exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 2:       The level of private investment reaches US$3 billion.
Value
(quantitative or   US$2.5 billion                US$3.0 billion                         US$3.2 billion
qualitative)
Date achieved      11/01/2009                    12/31/2011                             12/31/2011
Comments
                                                                                        Indicator met and
(incl. %
                                                                                        exceeded.
achievement)
                   The number of direct new jobs created reaches 130,000 by end of Project (Direct project
Indicator 3 :
                   beneficiaries number, % of females).
Value
(quantitative or   115,000                       130,000                                155,000
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2007                    12/31/2011                             12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %                                                                                End of project target met.
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                                                                Actual Value
                                                      Original Target     Formally
                                                                                                Achieved at
    Indicator              Baseline Value              Values (from     Revised Target
                                                                                               Completion or
                                                    approval documents)    Values
                                                                                                Target Years
                   APIX operating costs are covered at least by 70% by its revenues and the State budget by end
Indicator 1:
                   of Project.
Value
(quantitative or   50%                             70%                                       72%
qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                       12/31/2011                                12/31/2011
Comments
                                                                                             Indicator met and
(incl. %
                                                                                             exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 2:      The number of loans made using the Partial Credit Guarantee reaches 25 by end of project.
Value
(quantitative or  0.0                              25                                        0.0
qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                       12/31/2010                                12/31/2011
Comments (incl. %
                                                                                             Activity was dropped.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Percentage of procurement complaints properly investigated and decided on.
Value
(quantitative or  70                               90                                        98
qualitative)
Date achieved     06/22/2009                       12/31/2011                                12/31/2011
Comments
                                                                                             Indicator met and
(incl. %
                                                                                             exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 4:      Percentage of ARMP annual operating cost covered.
Value
(quantitative or  60                               80                                        29
qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2009                       12/31/2011                                12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %                                                                                     Indicator not met.
achievement)
                  ARMP is fully operational and covers all of its operational cost from its revenues to ensure
Indicator 5:
                  sustainability by end of Project
Value                                                                                        ARMP is operational
                                                   ARMP is financially
(quantitative or  ARMP is partially operational                                              but not financially self
                                                   self-sufficient
qualitative)                                                                                 -sufficient
Date achieved     10/31/2009                       12/31/2011                                12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %                                                                                     Indicator not met
achievement)
                  A decree is adopted to establish the société de gestion collective to ensure payment of royalties
Indicator 6:
                  to artists/musicians.
Value             A decree to establish a          The decree is
                                                                                             The decree has not
(quantitative or  “Société de gestion collective? approved and
                                                                                             been adopted yet
qualitative)      has been prepared                published
                                                                                            Actual Value
                                                     Original Target     Formally
                                                                                             Achieved at
    Indicator              Baseline Value             Values (from     Revised Target
                                                                                           Completion or
                                                   approval documents)    Values
                                                                                            Target Years
Date achieved      12/31/2009                      12/31/2011                           12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7:       A tourism strategy is adopted by end of project.
Value
                   There is no tourism sector      Tourism strategy has                 A tourism strategy has
(quantitative or
                   strategy                        been adopted                         not been adopted
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2003                      12/31/2006                           12/31/2011
                                                                                        A tourism strategy
                                                                                        was adopted in 2005
                                                                                        but needed to be
Comments
                                                                                        updated. This was
(incl. %
                                                                                        never done because of
achievement)
                                                                                        lack consensus among
                                                                                        sector key
                                                                                        stakeholders.
Indicator 8:       Time to clear goods for export/imports is reduced to 8 days.
Value
                                                                                        11 days for export
(quantitative or   10                              8
                                                                                        14 days for import
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2009                      12/31/2011                           12/31/2011
Comments                                                                                Baseline was not
(incl. %                                                                                clear.
achievement)                                                                            Target not met.
Indicator 9:       The number of new firms registered exceeds 10,000.
Value
(quantitative or   8500                            10000                                19138
qualitative)
Date achieved      01/01/2009                      12/31/2011                           12/31/2011
Comments
                                                                                        Indicator met and
(incl. %
                                                                                        exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 10:      The corporate marginal tax rate is reduced to 28% by 2011.
Value
(quantitative or   28                              25                                   25
qualitative)
Date achieved      01/01/2005                      12/31/2008                           12/31/2011
                                                                                        Baseline was
Comments                                                                                inaccurate.
(incl. %                                                                                End of project target
achievement)                                                                            met before project
                                                                                        restructuring.
Indicator 11:      The time to register a firm is reduced to 8 days.
Value
(quantitative or   67                              30                     8             5
qualitative)
Date achieved      04/30/2002                      12/31/2008             12/31/2011    12/31/2011
                                                                                  Actual Value
                                            Original Target     Formally
                                                                                   Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from     Revised Target
                                                                                  Completion or
                                          approval documents)    Values
                                                                                  Target Years
Comments
                                                                               End of project target
(incl. %
                                                                               met and exceeded.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                            Actual Disbursements
 No.                             DO                          IP
          Archived                                                               (USD millions)
   1     06/30/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       0.00
   2     12/03/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       0.00
   3     05/27/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       3.28
   4     12/15/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       4.91
   5     05/10/2005         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       6.39
   6     12/28/2005         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       8.86
   7     06/22/2006         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      15.13
   8     12/20/2006         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      17.17
   9     06/26/2007   Moderately Unsatisfactory   Moderately Unsatisfactory               23.15
  10     12/28/2007       Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                      26.28
  11     06/30/2008       Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                      30.26
  12     12/23/2008       Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                      31.45
  13     04/03/2009    Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory                34.69
  14     12/21/2009   Moderately Unsatisfactory   Moderately Unsatisfactory               37.30
  15     06/29/2010   Moderately Unsatisfactory   Moderately Unsatisfactory               38.06
  16     03/26/2011   Moderately Unsatisfactory   Moderately Unsatisfactory               38.81
  17     12/10/2011   Moderately Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory                      39.32
H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring             Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                            The reasons for restructuring were
                                                           to address project implementation
                                                           difficulties by focusing on
                                                           activities with clear commitment
                                                           by the Government, and to respond
                                                           to the Government’s need to
                                                           maintain its investment climate
                                                           reform momentum.
                                                           The key changes were: revision of
                                                           the PDO, increasing of the
  07/14/2010                 MU      U           38.32
                                                           importance of Component 1, re-
                                                           launching of matching grant sub-
                                                           component, focusing of activities
                                                           financed under Component 3,
                                                           formalization of closing of PIU,
                                                           extension of closing date,
                                                           reallocation of funds, and
                                                           restatement of legal covenant to
                                                           finance a joint IDA/IFC risk-
                                                           sharing facility.


I. Disbursement Profile
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

1.      Senegal achieved steady economic growth of 5 percent GDP per annum (p.a.) and made
important progress towards achieving macroeconomic stabilization in the five years preceding
project approval by the Board, in 2003. Despite this relatively strong performance, economic
growth was insufficiently broad-based to realize the development and poverty reduction targets
associated with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).

2.      Economic growth had too narrow a base and was largely attributable to the performance
of the construction sector. Moreover, growth had little impact in improving income distribution,
and it failed to generate sufficient formal sector employment opportunities to absorb the annual
influx of 200,000 new job seekers to the labor market.

3.      It was in this context that the World Bank and other donors were requested to assist the
Government of Senegal (GOS) in the preparation of a private sector development strategy. The
overall objective of the strategy was to achieve and sustain an expansion of the private sector in
support of job creating growth of approximately 8 percent per annum. A draft strategy was
endorsed by all stakeholders in mid-1999. Concurrently, detailed diagnostic work was
undertaken in support of the strategy’s preparation, with technical assistance from the World
Bank and other donors (USAID, etc.). Preparatory work included reports by the Foreign
Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) analyzing administrative barriers to private sector growth
(1999), a Project Preparation Advance (PPA) funded analysis of the tourism sector (2002), and
an assessment of parametric reforms relating to pensions schemes (2003). Additional World
Bank studies on infrastructure reform (Country Framework Report) and trade policy (Integrated
Framework) also assisted in the process of project preparation. Taken together, the formulation
of the private sector development strategy, and the body of diagnostic reports, formed the basis
of project preparation.

4.      A few months after the Private Investment Promotion Project (PIPP) effectiveness, a
complementary project, the Private Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC) was approved to support
the implementation of key policy reforms relating to taxation, edible oil, pensions and the post
office, and concurrently to provide budget support to alleviate the incremental fiscal impact of
these reforms.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The original objective of the project was to help create conditions to stimulate a sustained
increase in private investment through an improved investment climate, greater private
participation in economic activities, and policy and sector reform. The project was expected to
make important incremental contributions towards attaining the 8 percent GDP growth called for
in the GOS’ poverty alleviation program.




                                                1
5.      The achievement of these objectives would be measured against the following
indicators:1
        i.    20,000 new formal jobs created;
        ii.   The achievement of financial sustainability of APIX and postal corporation (“La
              Poste?);
        iii.  One million annual tourist trips to Senegal;
        iv.   Reduced dependence of rural households on the cultivation and sale of
              groundnuts as their main source of income;
        v.    Improved investment climate, comparing favorably with other middle-income
              countries;
        vi.   Universal access to a telephone connection within five kilometers of citizens’
              residences; and
        vii.  Governance of pension funds to be aligned with international best practice,
              including reserves meeting standard prudential norms, and improvement in
              administrative efficiency (specifically a 20% reduction of the ratio of operational
              costs to revenues).

1.3          Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority), Key Indicators, and
             Reasons/Justification

6.     In July 2010, World Bank management approved a Level I restructuring that was
concluded with a restructured Financing Agreement, signed on August 5, 2010. Restructuring
included revisions to the PDO, the results framework and key performance indicators.

7.      The revised PDO dropped reference to an 8 percent growth target, in light of Senegal’s
anticipated inability to achieve this. The new PDO reads as follows: “To create the conditions to
increase private investment. This will be accomplished through an improved investment climate,
greater private participation in economic activities, and policy and sector reforms?.

8.      The results framework was revised and simplified. In so doing, the number of indicators
was significantly reduced, from 81 to 12. Revised project outcomes were to be measured against
the following PDO indicators: i) 100 new firms with investment incentives would start operating;
ii) The level of private investment would reach US$3 billion; iii) The number of direct new jobs
created would reach 130,000 by the end of the Project (direct project beneficiaries, number, % of
which are female).

1.4          Main Beneficiaries

9.      Beneficiaries targeted by the project were: (i) A minimum of 400 firms to benefit from
access to non-financial business development services; (ii) private associations to benefit through
support in the implementation of the matching grant scheme; and (iii) the private sector, as a
whole, would benefit from an improved investment climate and the reduction of the effective
marginal tax rate.




1
    Achievement of these objectives is discussed under the section on project outcomes assessment.



                                                                         2
1.5    Original Components (as approved)

10.    The project was originally implemented through four main components: (a) improving
the investment climate; (b) facilitating private participation and enhancing competitiveness; (c)
stimulating sector investment and implementation of policy reform; and (d) Supporting
implementation and capacity building.

Component 1: Improving the Investment Climate - US$7.00 million

11.     The objective of this component was to improve the investment climate by improving the
policy, legal and regulatory interface between the public and private sectors. It was envisioned
that this objective would be achieved primarily through implementation of: (a) legal and judicial
capacity-building and reform; (b) business climate reform; (c) improvements in trade facilitation;
(d) the development of effective infrastructure regulation to address emerging post-privatization
regulatory issues; and (e) the development of an effective private-public consultative process.

Component 2: Facilitating Private Participation and Enhancing Competitiveness - US$11.50
million

12.     The objective of this component was to: (i) stimulate higher levels of foreign investment,
specifically in infrastructure and export-oriented firms, and to broaden private sector
participation in economic activities; and (ii) improve productivity in the local private sector. This
objective was to be achieved through implementation of the following subcomponents: (a)
investment promotion, and the funding of strategic studies on infrastructure and public-private
partnerships projects; (b) the implementation of a matching-grant facility to improve private
sector competitiveness; (c) building the capacity of key public institutions and private business
associations to fulfill their mandates; and (d) support for divestiture of state owned enterprises
(SOEs) and the strengthening of the capacity in oversight institutions.

Component 3: Stimulating Sector Investment and Reforms - US$21.80 million

13.     The objective of this component was to promote dedicated subsector reforms to: (i)
stimulate growth in identified areas with untapped potential (ii) improve linkages inhibiting the
ability of the private sector to operate effectively and competitively; and (iii) free-up public and
private resources, to fund pro-poor private initiatives, and indirectly finance private investment.
The following sub-sectors and areas were covered: (a) pensions; (b) telecommunications and
information technology; (c) postal; (d) tourism; (e) the music industry; and (f) edible oil.

Component 4: Supporting Implementation and Capacity Building - US$5.70 million

14.     It was originally envisaged that the project would be implemented by beneficiaries with
coordination and supporting functions performed by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU). A
small team at the PIU would be responsible for oversight of financial management, procurement,
reporting, monitoring and evaluation, audit, public information, and related functions, as well as
the coordination of activities, some of which would be outsourced. For example, management of
the matching-grant facility was to be outsourced to a team of local and international consultants.
The PIU was expected to be accountable to a project Steering Committee.


                                                 3
1.6         Revised Components

15.     In line with the level I restructuring approved by Bank management in July 2010, and in
order to meet the revised development objectives, project components and activities were
significantly refocused as reflected in the table below:

      No.                    PAD Activities                                        Restructuring
      1.         Component 1: Improve the investment          Activities supported by the project were streamlined
                 climate.                                     by focusing the assistance on improving key Doing
                                                              Business indicators related to the reduction of time
                                                              and cost to: (i) import and export goods; (ii) obtain a
                                                              construction license; (iii) time to start up a business;
                                                              and (iv) tax payment.
      2.         Component 2: Facilitate private              Re-launching of the matching grants subcomponent
                 participation and enhance competitiveness.   to complement investment promotion initiatives
                                                              supported by the Project.
                                                              Partial Credit Guarantee (PCG) to banks was to be
                                                              added formally to support and expand access to
                                                              financial services for small and medium enterprises
                                                              (SMEs).
      3.         Component 3: Stimulate investment and        The following subcomponents were dropped: (a)
                 implement policy reform.                     telecommunications reform and the development of
                                                              Information Technology sector; (b) postal reforms;
                                                              and (c) edible oil sector reform.

                                                              Assistance was to continue for the following sectors:
                                                              (i) tourism, (ii) music industry and (iii) pension.
      4.         Component 4: Project Implementation and       Project Implementation Unit was to be closed and
                 capacity building.                           formally moved to APIX, and Project steering
                                                              committee revamped.
                                                               A dedicated team of high caliber professionals were
                                                              to be hired by APIX to carry out the following
                                                              functions: (i) project coordination, (ii) procurement
                                                              and (iii) financial management.

1.7         Other significant changes

16.     Suspension of disbursement. Following the task team’s identification of numerous
violations of the credit agreement (including US$200,000 of ineligible expenditure incurred by
the PIU), the Bank suspended project disbursements effective July 3, 2008. The suspension of
disbursement created a context for renewed dialogue with government, and the GOS moved
quickly to adopt the measures necessary for the suspension to be lifted. Project disbursement was
recommenced on December 15, 2008.

17.         Implementation timeline. The Project closing date was extended twice:

            i.         In December 2008, World Bank management approved the extension of the
                       closing date from December 2008 to August to 2010 in the wake of the lifting of
                       the project’s disbursement suspension, to provide the project with the opportunity
                       to make up for lost time and improve the likelihood of achieving the PDO.



                                                              4
       ii.     As part of the 2010 level I restructuring, a new extension of the closing date from
               August 2011 to December 2011 was approved by the Board.

18.     Reallocation of funds. As part of the level I restructuring, the Board approved the
reallocation of funds between components and among disbursements categories. This
reallocation aimed to: i) increase funds targeting the investment climate; and ii) reallocate
unutilized funds from activities dropped through the restructuring initiative.

19.     Cancellation. With less than six months remaining before project closing, US$12.56
million of project funds remained uncommitted. As a consequence the Government agreed to
IDA’s suggestion that non-committed credit be cancelled. The cancelation of approximately
US$6.8 million of non-committed funds was approved on October 20th, 2011, allowing for the
reallocation of these resources to other projects in the Senegal IDA portfolio.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

20.     Project preparation commenced in April 1999, when the task team was authorized to
proceed, and concluded in May, 2003, when the project was submitted to the Board. Through the
course of this relatively long preparation period, the government changed, and consequently the
project underwent a design change to reflect new government priorities.

21.     Project design reflected both the original concept, as well as changes to the institutional
environment and new policy priorities. A Project Preparation Advance (PPA) was approved and
operationalized in 2001 to provide institutional support to APIX (targeted to become the PIU)
and to complement preparatory work financed through an existing IDA funded project.

22.     Project design benefited from evidence-based analysis. For example, the broader agenda
for the investment climate reforms was set forth by the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and
FIAS reports (completed in 1999 and 2000) on regulatory reform and taxation. The conceptual
groundwork for pension reform commenced through economic and sector analysis initiated in
2000, and was complemented by a parametric study of reforms to pension schemes in 2003.

23.     Objective of Project was very relevant. The overall objective of the project was to
create the conditions necessary to increase private investment through an improved investment
climate, greater private participation in economic activities, and policy and sector reforms. At the
time of appraisal, the Government had prepared a private sector development strategy with the
overall objective of achieving and sustaining private sector-based GDP growth of about 8
percent per annum. This in turn would lead to a substantial boost to formal employment, which
had been relatively stagnant in the preceding five years. In this regard, the project (PIPP) was
well aligned to government strategy, and with the policy recommendations of the CAS (FY03-
05).

24.    Design was too ambitious and complex. The initial project design included 19
beneficiaries and a large number of structural reforms to the overall investment climate, as well
as in specific and disparate sectors such as the postal system, tourism, and the collection of


                                                 5
royalties in the music industry. Coordination of these complex activities overburdened an already
under-capacitated PIU, with negative implications for implementation.

25.     At appraisal it was presumed that beneficiaries would have the necessary technical
capacity to fulfill the primary leadership roles required for effective implementation of reforms.
Fiduciary capacity within the PIU was insufficient to enable effective support for implementation
and associated activities. In light of the range of envisioned reforms, and the large number of
sectors to be covered, the preparation team’s proposal at appraisal to split the operation into two
projects should have been considered more seriously.

26.     At restructuring, activities were substantially modified. However, these revisions were
insufficiently reflected in the new PDO which remained relatively unchanged, while activities
supporting its achievement were dropped. For example, assistance for most of the policy and
sector reforms supported under the project (telecom, edible oil, and pension) were dropped, but
the PDO still aimed to create the conditions necessary for increased private investment through
policy reforms.

27.    Too much focus on capacity building of key public entities as compared to direct
support to private sector actors. The project targeted the majority of capacity building
interventions in key public institutions, while insufficient support was extended to strengthening
the competitiveness of private firms and the capabilities of business associations. Following
complaints on the part of the private sector, some adjustments were made to initiate capacity
building for private sector organizations, and the introduction of a Partial Credit Guarantee
scheme to facilitate banking sector lending to SMEs.

28.     Important risks were correctly identified by the Bank team, but these were
underestimated. Three critical risks were insufficiently assessed: (i) the complexity of project
design—which hindered implementation, (ii) the PIU was insufficiently capacitated to manage
project activities, and (iii) the fact that complementary funds from government were not made
available in a timely manner. In light of the complexity of the project (acknowledged by the
team), and from experience accruing from previous projects in Senegal, the rating of these risks
as “Modest? was not realistic. The magnitude of the impact of these risk factors was
compounded by the decision to set up a relatively small and under-capacitated PIU which
resulted in delays to implementation, and the realization of the outcomes. The materialization of
these risks significantly impacted project outcomes, and should have been rated “High?, with
greater attention given to associated mitigation measures. Moreover, the loss of policy
“champions? in government also negatively affected project implementation. This risk too
should have been anticipated, and more adequately mitigated in the project design.

29.     Lessons learned from previous operations were stressed in project design but were
insufficiently incorporated into design. Project preparation benefited from the inputs of various
networks and central departments of the World Bank. Lessons learned from previous Bank
interventions with regard to judicial reform, telecoms, pensions, and the business environment
were considered through the course of project preparation. However insufficient attention was
paid to incorporating this experience into the overall project design. Specifically, the project
design did not sufficiently acknowledge that: (i) In an environment where the primary



                                                6
stakeholders to reform have weak institutional and implementation capacity, it is important to
tightly focus the reform agenda; (ii) Social sector reforms take time and require a realistic
timetable (pension parametric reforms, introduction of pension funds).

30.    Consensus building for some project interventions was not completed. Commitment
to, and ownership of, project outcomes on the part of beneficiaries is critical to the successful
implementation of reform. Project design was undermined by a consensus deficit, and a lack of
ownership of the content of proposed reforms. For example, at appraisal, the technical services
of the Ministry of Culture did not agree with the content of proposed project activities, and felt
disenfranchised by the proposed implementation scheme, which they felt granted too much
responsibility to industry private actors.

2.2          Implementation

31.      Important progress was made in achieving project activities prior to restructuring,
including: (i) improvements to Senegal’s Doing Business indicators; (ii) the establishment of key
institutions in support of private sector development (Investment promotion agency, procurement
regulatory agency); (iii) the completion of important sectoral reforms (pensions, telecoms, edible
oil); (iv) the initiation of judicial sector reform; and (v) the provision of substantial technical
assistance for the concession of the Dakar-Diamniado toll road project.2

32.     The interaction of capacity limitations and a complex project design was a recipe for
failure. The project had 19 beneficiaries and incorporated a large number of activities including
the building of institutions, policy and sector reforms (ranging from social security to intellectual
property rights), provision of technical assistance or equipment, etc.

33.    Commencement of the project was delayed, and initial implementation was slow.
Following approval by the Board on May 20, 2003, the project became effective only on
February 26, 2004 due to the government’s failure to fulfill effectiveness and disbursement
conditions in a timely manner.

34.     In light of the complexity of the project and the number of beneficiaries, the task team
chose at entry to empower beneficiaries for the implementation of their respective components.
In an effort to enhance coordination and smooth the implementation of the overall project, it was
decided to establish technical working groups, with beneficiary institutions assuming primary
technical leadership.

35.     The implementation arrangements were structured in three primary layers: i) a project
steering committee whose role was to provide strategic guidance, ii) a PIU responsible for
fiduciary management and for providing support to the steering committee, and iii) and technical
working groups.




2
    Detailed description of achievements is presented on section 3.2




                                                                       7
36.     However, the proposed technical working groups were not set up during implementation,
as a consequence, primarily, of a lack of capacity within beneficiary institutions. The absence of
working groups contributed to a significant efficiency gap in the management and coordination
of the project as a whole. A contingent consequence was over-reliance on the PIU, which
similarly lacked adequate technical capacity.

37.    Significant post effectiveness delays, resulted as a consequence of the lack of technical
capacity within beneficiary institutions (capacity to prepare Terms of References (TOR),
technical specifications for equipment, requests for proposals, etc.).

38.    Poor capacity within beneficiary institutions could have been better predicted and
addressed during project preparation, had the task team conducted a rigorous capacity
assessment and taken more seriously warnings evident during project preparation. For example,
beneficiaries demonstrated an inability to draft often straightforward TORs in fulfilling activities
funded under the PPA, resulting in an over-reliance on APIX, the agency managing the PPA.

39.     Project coordination was inadequate. The PIU went beyond its mandated responsibilities
and functions, often bypassing the project steering committee in making important decisions.
This contributed to the deterioration of collaboration between the PIU and project stakeholders,
and in some instances to complete deadlock in the implementation of project activities.

40.     Until the suspension of the project in 2008, the Steering Committee had proved to be
relatively ineffective. The committee lacked the requisite initiative and authority to fulfill its
mandate. This was in part a consequence of its composition, and also a lack of guidance and
leadership from the Ministry of Finance (MOF). It is interesting to note that the committee was
chaired by the director of Unité de Politique Economique (UPE, a think tank within the Ministry
of Finance), a beneficiary of the project without effective administrative or political power.

41.    Several opportunities to refocus project activities and revamp the implementation
arrangements arose, but were not utilized. The midterm review (MTR) in July 2006 that
highlighted challenges relating to slow implementation and M&E weaknesses hindering the
achievement of PDO, represented one such instance. The MTR recommended reform of the
implementation mechanisms and the cancellation of a number of project activities unrelated to
the achievement of the PDO. Government did not, however act on these recommendations.

42.     The suspension of the project disbursement was another missed opportunity to
substantively address challenges relating to project design and implementation. Following the
lifting of the suspension in December 2008, Bank management and Government agreed to
substantially restructure the project by March 2009. Implementation responsibility was
transferred to APIX, a new steering committee was established, and some activities were
dropped, while others were refocused. However these changes were not captured by the
Financing Agreement and as a consequence their status was informal.

43.     For reasons that remain unclear, it took 12 months for the project team to propose a
restructuring package to government. Disagreements relating to proposed reallocations of credit
proceeds, created further delays, and restructuring was only completed in July, 2010. The year-



                                                 8
long delay impacted operations as the formal transfer of responsibility to APIX only occurred at
the conclusion of the process, and critically some activities that required the reallocation of
resources could not be implemented until after the finalization of the restructuring process.

44.    It is important to note that the content of restructuring was not commensurate with the
challenges faced by the project. Except for removal of the economic growth target, the PDO
remained essentially unchanged, and very broad. Moreover, an opportunity was missed to more
closely align the PDO to specific priorities outlined in government’s Accelerated Growth
Strategy adopted in 2006.

45.     The M&E framework was simplified, but not all flaws were addressed. Very little
attention was paid the problems relating to the implementation mechanisms for M&E (staffing,
progress reports, and impact evaluation studies).

46.     The need to restructure the project and address challenges to implementation was
identified in 2006, but it took four years for the team to finalize a restructuring package and
submit it to the board of directors. These delays to restructuring substantially undermined the
project, and delivery of its objectives.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design

Rating: Unsatisfactory

47.     Given the large number of activities captured in the original project design, the M&E
framework included 13 outcome indicators and 78 output indicators. Many of these output
indicators were process oriented and the M&E framework could have been simplified and
strengthened through the inclusion of more outcome related indicators.

48.    The set of outcome indicators moreover did not accurately capture various aspects of the
PDO. Despite the large number of project activities geared toward enhancing private investment
flows, the M&E framework did not include investment related measurements. The task team
considered that the addition of new formal job opportunities in the economy could serve as a
proxy. This choice was inadequate for two reasons:

       i.     Additional formal jobs could arguably be attributed to a variety of factors distinct
              from the project’s investment climate reform and investment promotion activities
              (i.e. changes in job market rigidity etc.);

       ii.    Even though there may be a significant correlation between investment and job
              creation, all investments do not necessary lead to significant job creation.

49.    This indicator was changed through the restructuring process to measure jobs created by
firms supported by APIX. Moreover, while the project was expected to contribute to the GOS’ 8
percent growth target, the M&E framework could not measure these contributions.



                                               9
50.     Adjustments were made to the M&E framework following as a consequence of
restructuring to reflect activities dropped, to capture new activities and to incorporate modified
targets for ongoing activities. The new outcome indicators were nevertheless insufficiently
aligned to the PDO. For example none of the new indicators could capture the potential impact
of the project on improvements in the investment climate.

51.     The capacity building activities were enhanced in the restructured project, but were not
effectively monitored for impact. Baseline indicators were either inaccurate or misleading, and
dates for reported data were missing. In some cases, end-of-project targets were met before
implementation of activities. For example, the corporate tax was reduced to 25 percent in 2006,
while the M&E framework captured the baseline value at 28 percent and targeted 25 percent by
end of 2011. Similarly, both baseline and target values for the number of enterprises operating
with investment incentives were exceeded before project restructuring.

52.    Finally in light of difficulties relating to an accurate measurement of indicators such as
job creation, an effort should have been made to ensure that impact assessment studies were
conducted by end of the project. As a consequence, project evaluation had to be conducted
exclusively based on data and information provided by the implementation agency without any
independent verification.

M&E Implementation

Rating: Unsatisfactory.

53.      Weaknesses in the project design negatively impacted the M&E framework. Over the
course of project implementation, the PIU had a dedicated M&E officer for only one year. A
person was hired in 2004 but left in 2005 and was never replaced. As a consequence there was
inadequate oversight of beneficiary activities, which hampered the fulfillment of objectives.
Project management repeatedly failed to produce reports required for the effective monitoring of
the project’s performance and impact. As an illustration of poor monitoring of project activities,
despite numerous requests the preparatory study for an investment strategy produced by the
Institution de Prévoyance Retraite du Sénégal (IPRES, the pension scheme covering workers not
in the civil service) was not timeously provided to the IDA team. As a consequence the support
needed to translate the recommendations into a strategy was never provided to the institution and
the target was not met. It is important to note that this indicator was a trigger for the
disbursement of the third tranche of the PSAC budget support operation.

54.     The task team correctly invested great deal of effort to ensuring the recruitment of
fiduciary personnel to PIU, but insufficient attention was paid to the resolution of M&E issues.

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

55.     Safeguards. The project primarily aimed to provide technical support to the
government’s financial sector adjustment program. As such it was a Category C project that
triggered no safeguard policies.




                                               10
56.    Financial management. Despite substantial improvements towards the end of the project
(adequate accounting system, execution rate amounting to 86 percent), the overall performance
of the project’s financial management is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The shortcomings in
project financial management relate to: (i) the failure to implement internal control
recommendations arising from an internal audit mission of the PPIP, and to regularize a debt
amounting to 85 million CFA francs contracted by beneficiaries (Postal system, the ARTP and
Customs) before project closure; and (ii) inappropriate reimbursement of ineligible expenditures
of FCFA 3.5 million arising from counterpart funds.

57.     Procurement. Overall performance of procurement management is rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory. The project required the procurement of numerous consultancy services, large
information technology systems, (Customs, La Poste, and Network of Chambers of Commerce),
but the PIU lacked the capacity to handle this workload. A conflict of interest in the procurement
by a beneficiary of consultancy services contributed to the suspension of disbursement in 2008.
Increased capacity of the procurement team toward the end of the project helped to reduce delays
in provision of procurement services to beneficiaries, but was not sufficient to entirely eliminate
delays.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

58.     There is no transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed
by the PIPP. La Poste requires financing to maintain or upgrade its V-SAT system. In addition,
the failure of government to recapitalize La Poste means that the institution has not achieved
financial sustainability despite major improvements to its operations and commercial
performance.

59.    Implementation decrees for the new intellectual property rights law were promulgated
and submitted for approval without sufficient consultation with beneficiaries. The decrees are
substandard and will require significant revision, underpinned by further consultation with
stakeholders.

60.    Establishment of the “Société de gestion collective? as a public corporation to manage
royalty fees in the music industry is yet to be operationalized. Further consultation with
stakeholders (musicians, producers, etc.) will be needed before a general assembly can be
convened for the adoption of the corporation charter and governance structure. So as not to
jeopardize the important progress achieved in this component, it is critical to support the
completion of these activities.

61.    A follow-up private sector development operation has been requested by both
government and the private sector to strengthen and deepen progress with regard to improving
the investment climate, procurement regulation, investment promotion and facilitation, and to
support other activities that could not be implemented in the PIPP.

62.    Enhancement of private sector competitiveness remains very relevant in Senegal. A
follow-up operation supporting this agenda could be considered and could among other activities
include matching grants and PCG for SMEs.



                                                11
3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

63.     The project development objective was relevant to the country’s development priorities,
since it addressed challenges to increasing private sector investment. A number of studies
identified increased flows of private investment as a key driver for economic diversification and
job creation. The PDO was consistently aligned with priorities articulated in the GOS’
Accelerated Growth Strategy (2006) and the World Bank’s CAS.

64.     The relevance of the project design is rated Modest due to numerous shortcomings that
limited overall impact.

65.     Despite features of project components closely mirroring development objectives, some
of the proposed activities were too generic and difficult to link to the project development
objective. This was the case for the proposed support to monitor the residual government
participation in SOEs, and to a lesser extent the support to the music industry.

66.      A causal link between the removal of import taxes for edible oil and an increase in
private investments seemed dubious at best. Removal of this tax looks more like a pro-poor
initiative than an activity aimed at increasing private investment.

67.     Following restructuring similar shortcomings persisted, and some project activities
continued to be misaligned with development objectives. As an illustration, none of the project
activities included support to policy or sector reforms central to the achievement of the PDO.
There were problems associated with the project’s complexity, the low capacity of beneficiaries
and inadequate implementation mechanisms, and overall project implementation was further
undermined by the waning support for aspects of reform on the part of government.
Unpredictable domestic shocks (recurrent flooding in the capital city suburbs and electricity
crisis) through the course of 2009 and 2010 required the government’s full attention, further
diluting appetite for investment climate reform.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

68.    Given the broad character of the PDO, intended objectives will be inferred from
associated outcome targets. At restructuring, change to the PDO consisted only of dropping the 8
percent growth target. Outcome indicators were substantially changed and reduced from 13 to 3.
Evaluation of the project’s achievements will be assessed before and after restructuring.




                                               12
3.3      PDO and key indicators before restructuring

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

69.    Prior to restructuring, the project was at risk of not achieving its development objective
of creating conditions to increase private investment through improvements to the investment
climate, greater private participation in economic activities, and policy and sector reforms. After
6 years of implementation, only 6 of the 13 original performance indicators had been met. An
additional 5 key indicators were partially met and 2 were not met at all (see table below).

                                     Indicator                                                 Achievement
Sector expenditure program for justice prepared.                                     Met
Anti-money laundering legislation promulgated.                                       Met
Trade legislation, including intellectual property rights, adopted.                  Met
Administrative barriers reduced for (a) starting up a business and (b) land access   Partially met
for commercial purpose.                                                              Starting up a business was
                                                                                     reduced to 2 days. Delay to
                                                                                     reduce land access time was not.
Marginal effective tax rate for industry, based on FIAS report 2001                  Met
methodology, reduced to 35% by mid-term review and to 25% by end of the
Project.
Physical inspection of containers by Customs is limited to a maximum of 20% of       Not met
all containers passing through Customs.                                              No progress was recorded.
APIX investment promotion activities to result in 4000 permanent new jobs in         Met
the formal sector by mid-term and 10,000 by the end of the Project.
For the matching grant scheme: (a) the increase in revenues for beneficiaries        Not met
over the increase in manufacturing output is greater than 1.10, and (b) at least     Implementation discontinued
3,000 permanent jobs have been created.                                              because of inadequate
                                                                                     governance.
The telecommunications sector strategy to be implemented, and the teledensity        Met
in the Borrower’s territory doubled.
By end of the Project, (a) restructuring of the pension schemes has been             Not met
completed, and adequate measures have been adopted to ensure their financial         Systemic reform and new
sustainability (as measured by parametric reforms) by mid-term review; and (b)       governance not in place.
systemic reforms and new corporate governance are in place.
By December 31, 2006: (a) the postal corporation has been restructured and           Partially met
financial services spun off into a separate subsidiary; and (b) both structures      Financial equilibrium was not
achieved financial equilibrium (inclusive of government remuneration for public      achieved, government failed to
service delivery).                                                                   provide the needed resources
By December 31, 2006: (a) a tourism sector strategy has been formulated and          Partially met
adopted with 4 master plans and 12 studies completed and their results               Master plans and studies was
disseminated; and (b) an investor conference convened.                               not undertaken and investors
                                                                                     conference not convened
Legislative framework established to strengthen the rights of musicians and          Partially met
artists; royalties are paid to musicians; and musical archives are in place.         New law adopted but
                                                                                     implementing decrees was not
                                                                                     issued
Divestiture of SONACOS completed, and policy distortions in the edible oil           Not met
subsector have been reduced or eliminated, including consumption surcharge and
government subsidies.

70.    A number of valuable project achievements were not captured by project indicators.
These included the following:


                                                          13
71.    Improving the business environment. The project did substantially contribute to
improving the investment climate. This was mainly achieved by: i) reducing the average time
required to register an enterprise to 2 days from 58, ii) reducing the average time required to
clear goods through customs to 14 days from 58, and iii) lowering the corporate tax rate to 25
percent (beyond the agreed 28 percent) from 35 percent, and reducing the number of tax
exemptions. As a consequence, Senegal was ranked by the World Bank’s 2009 Doing Business
(DB) as one of the top 10 world reformers and the best in Africa, moving up the index from 168
in 2008 to 147 in 2009. The level of private investment has improved since 2005 averaging
19.5% of GDP per annum. Cumulative private investment flows between 2005 and 2009
amounted to US$2.5 billion.

72.     Facilitating private participation in economic activities and enhancing
competitiveness. Private sector participation in economic activities was significantly facilitated
through project implementation. Project support was instrumental in turning APIX into one of
the best investment promotion agencies in Africa (according to the 2009 Global Investment
Promotion Benchmarking report commissioned by FIAS). In addition, the project also helped
establish within APIX a One-stop-shop for business registration and licensing to facilitate the
start-up of a business within 48 hours. The project also supported the Presidential Investment
Council as a national platform for dialogue between the public and the private sectors. APIX
served as the secretariat to this platform which played a crucial role in spearheading investment
climate reform in Senegal.

73.     Incentives provided to firms contributed to the creation of 155,000 jobs between 2004
and 2011 according to figures provided by the PIU. While this number should be treated with
caution, it highlights the effectiveness of APIX as an investment promotion agency.
Unfortunately the assistance provided under the Matching Grant was ineffective due to poor
implementation of the mechanism. The Partial Credit Guarantee scheme was not implemented
due to a lack of consensus among stakeholders.

74.    Support to policy and sector reforms. Most of the policy reforms envisioned at
appraisal were only partially implemented. However significant progress was recorded in the
following sectors:

75.    Pension. With project support, parametric reforms acceptable to IDA were implemented
through the introduction of automatic indexation of benefit parameters and a ceiling for
contributions to IPRES and FNR (the two social security agencies). Arrears were also resolved
and the accounts of the affected workers credited. The project supported the formulation of a
consolidation plan of existing pension programs. In addition, a new policy for private pension
reform has been adopted, but it is yet to be implemented.

76.      Postal Services. With project support, a new postal financial services subsidiary (Poste
Finance) was created. Given failed postal reform experiences in many other African Countries
this is a major achievement. The Project also contributed to clarifying the relationship between
government and La Poste through the signing of a Performance contract acceptable to IDA.




                                               14
77.    Telecom sector. The project contributed to the establishment and operationalization of a
regulatory agency for postal services and telecommunications (ARTP). The agency is fully
operational and self-sustaining, and plays a critical role in overseeing and developing the sector.

78.     Procurement reforms. The project was instrumental in operationalizing the Public
Procurement agency (ARMP), which has since been instrumental in improving public
procurement. Sole source contracts awarded through public procurement have declined from 80
percent of total public contracts in 2006 to 14 percent in 2009 after ARMP became operational;
representing a savings of US$115,000,000 for the government. The project also contributed to
the financing of audits of contracts not subject to prior review by the government’s procurement
control body. These audits revealed many deficiencies in procurement operations, and
formulated several recommendations for improving contracting authorities. Enhanced
transparency and equity in the facilitation of public contract procurement (which represents the
bulk of economic activity in developing countries) institutionalized by ARMP has also
contributed to improving access to public contracts for SMEs.

79.      Edible Oil Sector Reform: The project contributed to government’s exit from the
groundnut sector through the privatization of SONACOS. However, there was disagreement
between the GOS and the Bank on the means of privatizing SONACOS. Government eventually
decided to privatize SONACOS as an integrated monopoly, against the advice of the Bank which
had suggested the sale of dismantled units to different buyers. As a consequence, the groundnut
sector is now controlled by a private monopoly. An additional benefit was that all government
liabilities in the sector were settled.

80.    On the reduction of tax induced distortions affecting the groundnuts sector, the
government passed in 2004 the law No. 2004-34 eliminating import surcharges on processed and
unprocessed edible oil. The law was complemented with transitory provisions conforming to
WTO and UEMOA rules. Despite some reversals of similar interventions in the past, the policy
remains effective and is expected to remain in place.

81.     Judicial reforms: With project support, Senegal unveiled a reform program for the
justice sector. An anti-money laundering law has been promulgated and is being implemented by
CENTIF, an agency established with the support of this operation.

82.    It is important to note the mobilization of transaction advisory services facilitated by
PIPP for the preparation of the Dakar-Diamniadio Toll-road project which is considered critical
to improving the country’s competitiveness. A private company was selected and subsequently
contracted for the construction and operation of the 40 km toll road.

83.    In summary, prior to restructuring, project outcomes were mixed: Out of 13 key
performance indicators, only six were met. On the plus side, analysis of progress recorded on the
various aspects of the PDO indicates that the project substantially contributed to an improved
business environment, supported the facilitation of private investment, and laid the groundwork
for a more effective pensions system.




                                                15
3.4    PDO and Outcome indicators after restructuring.

Rating: Unsatisfactory.

84.     The PDO and outcome indicators were revised at restructuring to give the project a better
chance of achieving its development objectives. Even though some key outcome indicators have
been attained, the project did not achieve its development objective. Critical activities designed
to contribute to the attainment of the objectives were not implemented.

85.     Specifically, interventions to promote private participation in economic activities and
policy and sector reform intended to increase private investment were never operationalized. No
progress was made with regard to implementing activities relating to matching grants, and partial
credit guarantees, both of which were given particular attention during the restructuring of the
project. Both interventions were abandoned prior to the close of the project, and associated funds
were cancelled. Consequently, the PDO is rated Unsatisfactory.

86.     Attainment of the three project outcome indicators (“100 new firms with investment
climate incentives start operating?; “number of direct new jobs created reaches 130,000 by the
end of the project?; and “level of private investment reaches US$3 billion?) is largely attributable
to pre-restructuring activities carried over the first phase of the project and cannot be attributed
to the restructured project. The transformation of APIX into a highly performing investment
promotion agency was instrumental in attracting important new investments.

87.    Many post-restructuring activities were not aligned with targeted objectives and were
never implemented. Moreover, the poor quality of baseline data represented a significant
obstacle to the effective measurement of the restructured project activities.

88.     Outcome Indicator No. 1: 100 new firms with investment climate incentives start
operating: Cumulative APIX data collected from 2004 to 2010 indicated that as of December
2011, 772 new firms were established and commenced operations utilizing investment climate
incentives.

89.    Outcome Indicator No. 2: 130,000 directly attributable new jobs created by the end
of the project. This objective was met and exceeded 5 months after project restructuring. More
than 145,000 jobs were created according to APIX statistics as of December 31, 2010.

90.     Outcome Indicator No. 3: The level of private investment reaches or exceeds US$3
billion: Statistics provided by APIX indicate that the project met this indicator. When project
restructuring took place in July 2010, it was expected that by assisting the government to create
an enabling business environment the project would contribute towards attracting new private
investment. Given the slow progress made in implementing investment climate reforms between
July 2010 and December 2011, it is clear that post-restructuring improvements to the investment
climate were not the main driver of new investments recorded during that period. Moreover, it is
difficult to isolate the effect of incentives provided to firms from the real impact of overall
improvements to the business environment supported by the project, giving rise to questions of
attribution.



                                                16
91.     Analysis of the intermediate results indicators and the component outputs underscores the
project’s weak performance. Only 6 of 11 indicators were met by project closing. Of these, two
were met prior to the restructuring of the project.

92.     There is no evidence of significant improvement to the business environment through an
assessment of the Doing Business indicators targeted by the project (see Annexure 2 for more
detail). Moreover, no support was directed to enterprises to enhance their competitiveness
through the matching grant scheme, the partial credit guarantee mechanism was not
operationalized, the tourism sector strategy has not been updated, and regulations to implement
the law on intellectual property rights have not been adopted.

Efficiency

93.    Numerous delays were experienced through project implementation. Following project
approval on May 20, 2003, it took 9 months for the operation to become effective. The closing
date was extended twice for a cumulative period of 3 years (from the originally scheduled date of
December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2011). The overall extension of the schedule corresponds to
50 percent of the original project timetable.

94.     The project’s Management, Monitoring and Evaluation budget remained within the
original limits, but this is largely attributable to the closing of the PIU and the dropping of
several activities (PCG, Matching Grant, etc.)

95.     The project provided technical assistance for institutional capacity development, sector
and policy reforms, and investment climate reforms. As a technical assistance project,
quantifying and attributing project impact or economic benefits poses serious challenges that
could have been addressed had independent impact assessments or studies been initiated through
the course of project implementation. A difficulty associated with quantifying economic benefits
arises due to the indirect relationship between the project's interventions and the stream of
benefits, and as a result a traditional cost benefit analysis is not appropriate for evaluating the
project.

96.      Nevertheless, a cost-benefit analysis has been used to calculate the Net Present Value
(NPV) and Economic Rate of Return (ERR) in "with" and "without" project scenarios (see
Annexure 3). It was assumed among other things that each $1,000.00 spent by APIX would
generate 1 job by mid-term review; and two jobs by the close of the project. This assumption is
illustrative of the limitations of the economic analysis used at project appraisal. A more accurate
assessment would acknowledge that jobs are generated by investments and costs incurred by
entrepreneurs, and to a lesser extent by investment incentives provided by government. In this
case the model only considered cost incurred by APIX and claims full credit for jobs generated,
while overlooking the cost for investors.

97.     Due to the limitations of the model and the dropping of activities included in the original
economic analysis (economic diplomacy, matching grant pension reforms etc.), this section will
assess the project achievements against a set of outcomes directly or indirectly associated with



                                                17
the project. A traditional cost benefit analysis would result in an unrealistic high and positive
ERR and NPV.

98.    The project has contributed to the establishment of an efficient framework for investment
promotion and public private dialogue. Numerous policy and sector reforms were also completed
with the support of the project. Significant progress was also made in improving the overall
investment climate.

99.     The project was moderately efficient in the use of proceeds of the credit due to the
underutilization of committed project resources (almost 20 percent of original allocation) and
corresponding commitment charges. The cancelation of the matching grant undermined expected
gains in private sector productivity, and the cancelation of the partial credit guarantee led to a
loss of investment opportunities.

100. Important achievements include the establishment of over 770 new enterprises with
investment climate incentives, creating more than 155,000 jobs. Moreover, support to investment
promotion improvements to the investment climate contributed to attracting new investment of
US$3.2 billion between 2004 and 2011.

101.     Despite the failure to implement key activities, and the potential benefits subsequently
foregone, the project generated economic and social benefits in terms of increased private sector
investment, job creation and institutions building. Consequently the efficiency rating of this
project can be considered Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

102. The objectives of the project were achieved to a Moderately Unsatisfactory extent based
on a weighted average of the moderately unsatisfactory rating at the time of the project
restructuring in 2010 and the unsatisfactory rating at the end of project, as illustrated below:

                   Description                  Original PDO           Restructured PDO       Overall
      Objective*                                     MU                        U
      Rating value*                                    3                        2
      Weight (% disbursed before/ after
                                                     0.94                     0.06
      restructuring)**
      Weighted value                                  2.8                     0.12              2.92
      Overall rating                                                                            MU
                     *MS=Moderately Satisfactory=4; MU=Moderately Unsatisfactory =3.
**Disbursements as of June 30, 2010: SDR 25.38 million; June 30, 2010 to December 10, 2011: SDR 1.61 million;
                                          Total SDR 26.99 million.

103. Although the development objectives of the project were (and are still) relevant to the
priorities of the Government of Senegal, and were aligned with the Bank’s assistance strategy,
design flaws at entry and restructuring, weak implementation capacity on the part of



                                                     18
beneficiaries and the implementing agency, and inadequate supervision undermined project
impact and associated achievements.

104. Weaknesses in M&E design and poor follow through by the implementing unit created
significant difficulty for effective the measurement and attribution of project activities.

105. However, despite difficulties encountered, the project contributed to substantial
improvement of the business environment, helped establish several critical institutions for private
sector development, and supported the implementation of important policy and sector reforms.
Consequently, design and implementation the project is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

3.6    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

106. The poverty impact of the project is difficult to assess. The project was meant to support
private investment and jobs creation. No impact evaluation was conducted at entry or following
the closure of the project complicating an accurate assessment of the poverty impact.

107. Jobs created by firms benefiting from project support inarguably contributed to poverty
reduction. However, no gender specific data was captured by APIX, as envisioned following the
restructuring process.

108. The restructuring of the pension system and reforms of the groundnut sector (on which
about 30 percent of the population of Senegal depends directly or indirectly for their livelihood)
may have had an indirect impact on poverty.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening

109. The project directly contributed to the establishment and strengthening of a range of
institutions. ARTP was created following sector reform supported by the project, and is fully
operational and self-sustaining. ARTP recently led the sale of a third mobile license and is
providing effective sector regulation.

110. Capacity building at APIX contributed to the agency becoming one of the leading
investment promotion agencies of the continent. The APIX investment promotion department is
certified ISO 9001, and the business registration one-stop-shop is an example of best practice in
the region.

111. The project supported the operationalization of a new procurement regulatory agency
(ARMP) contributing to improved access to public contracts on the part of SMEs. The
mainstreaming of transparency and efficiency measures premised on best practice in the public
procurement of government contracts saved the tax base US$115,000,000 in 2009. The agency
and its processes are considered a model to be replicated in the African continent.




                                                19
4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate.

112. Institutions established or supported under the auspices of the project have been
effectively integrated into the economic environment and are either self-sufficient (ARTP) or on
the verge of becoming so (ARMP). Project closing will not jeopardize their existence. However,
reforms to the administration of intellectual property rights cannot be sustained without the
implementation and approval of associated decrees. Additional technical and financial assistance
will be required to ensure that decrees are designed and adopted.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Unsatisfactory.

113. The project’s objective of creating the conditions to increase private investment was
highly relevant at entry, and was consistent with the Government’s priorities and the Bank’s
strategy. Primary issues to be addressed were properly identified, building on government’s
strategy for private sector development and in depth Economic and Sector work.

114. However, project design was too complex and its scope too broad. Important lessons
learned through previous Bank operations were sufficiently integrated into the design of this
project. Important risks were underestimated or not effectively mitigated when they arose. Of
particular importance was a project design that favored implementation of activities by
beneficiaries, but underestimated the technical capacity of beneficiaries for managing and
implementing project activities. The realization of these risks significantly undermined the
achievement of the PDO.

115. The initial composition of the steering committee was unbalanced and lacked the
necessary authority required for overall guidance of project implementation. The design of the
M&E framework was poor making it impossible to effectively monitor progress in
implementation, measure achievements and attribute the outcomes. Problems associated with
attribution and measurement was further complicated by the poor quality of baseline data.

116.    As a consequence of these significant shortcomings, the Bank’s performance in ensuring
quality at entry is rated Unsatisfactory.

(b)    Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory.

117. Supervision was conducted regularly, consisting of approximately two missions per year.
There were four Task Team Leaders (TTLs) over the course of the life of the project, with the


                                              20
last two TTLs located in the field. However there was a significant delay in appointing a new
TTL after the departure of the first TTL. Some missions were compromised by a failure to retain
the right skills mix, and as a consequence discussions and implementation of the PCG, for
instance, was led by IFC staff with a significantly different perspective and incentive structure.

118. Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) were regularly updated. Sector management
regularly commented on the ISRs and provided guidance to the team. However, the project did
not benefit from regular and substantive feedback from the CMU.

119. Prior to the finalization of the MTR, it is likely that ISR project ratings were unrealistic.
For example, Implementation Progress and Development Objective ratings were consistently
rated satisfactory between 2004 and 2006, despite delays in disbursement varying between 11
and 15 months.

120. The presence of a dedicated TTL in Senegal positively impacted the quality of the
supervision, allowing for close oversight and monitoring of project activities. More intimate
knowledge of project implementation resulted in a subsequent downgrading of the project to
moderately unsatisfactory, prior to further downgrading to unsatisfactory as a consequence of
violations of the credit agreement bring identified by the task team.

121. The task team identified in a timely manner operational bottlenecks, but was slow and
ineffective in implementing remedial action. For example, the MTR identified implementation
problems and recommended project restructuring as early as 2006, but the Bank was unable to
convince the client to implement the recommended remedial measures.

122. Restructuring became imperative following the identification of serious credit agreement
violations on the part of the PIU, and the subsequent suspension of project disbursement in 2008.

123. However, project restructuring was further delayed, with proposals only finalized in July
2010, 18 months after the lifting of the disbursement suspension. Failure to quickly restructure
the project (strongly recommended by the management) directly and negatively influenced
operations.

124. If implementation weaknesses and remedial actions were identified and clear to all
stakeholders as early as 2006, the question that could be asked is why the Bank took four years
to formalize and implement the necessary adjustments? Also, why Bank management (both
CMU and Sector) failed to induce greater urgency for restructuring on the part of both the
Government and the task team?

125. Based on the available documentation and discussions with stakeholders, delays appear to
have been the consequence of a combination of factors:
       i.      Slow progress by the task team in finalizing the restructuring package, despite the
               fact that the main lines were discussed and agreed with the government
               immediately following the lifting of the disbursement suspension in December
               2008;




                                               21
       ii.    The deterioration of the relationship between the then TTL and APIX, after the
              lifting of the disbursement suspension. The breakdown in the relationship
              between the team and APIX was common knowledge in mid-2009 (it was
              reiterated by the borrower during the ICR workshop) with negative implications
              for project. A new TTL was appointed in early 2011 and efforts made to rekindle
              dialogue. However, with a short time horizon to project closing, there was little
              time to significantly impact implementation; and
       iii.   Bank management did not set a clear timeline for the team to complete the
              restructuring of the project.

126. Another shortcoming of supervision was the relative inflexibility of the Bank in
considering the borrower’s request to use local expertise for the management of the matching
grant. This contributed to the dropping of the scheme, a flagship activity in support of private
sector development. The team considered hiring an international expert to address problems
arising through the first phase of the implementation of the scheme. Overhauling the manual of
procedures in line with international standards could have been sufficient to ensure adequate
management of the matching grant by local expertise, as was demonstrated in Burkina Faso and
Cote d’Ivoire.

127. Disbursement, financial management and procurement issues were raised in an adequate
and timely manner by the team. Recommendations for improvement were adequately reflected in
Aide Memoires.

128. Overall, the quality of supervision was inadequate. The task team was competent but
missed two opportunities to adjust project design and address implementation problems in a
timely manner. As a consequence quality of supervision is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

129. Shortcomings in project design negatively affected the attainment of project objectives;
and inadequacies in the quality of supervision require an overall assessment of Bank
performance to be rated Unsatisfactory.

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a)    Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

130. Through the course of project preparation and the initial commencement of
implementation, government demonstrated ownership of the project and was committed to the
proposed reform agenda. The project, in turn, was built on, and incorporated government
strategy. Following unforeseen domestic shocks, government was substantively distracted, and
interventions supported by the project (Investment Climate, intellectual property rights) were
shifted to the bottom of government’s reform agenda.




                                              22
131. Some early delays are attributable to government’s lack of prompt follow-through with
regard to effectiveness and disbursement conditions. Following the MTR, government opposition
to the restructuring of the Steering Committee further delayed the reorganization of
implementation arrangements.

132. Moreover, government’s failure to provide counterpart funding for the restructuring of
postal financial services restructuring, and a failure to implement actions to finalize the process
of reforms to pension schemes, negatively impacted the achievement of project objectives, and
will undermine the sustainability of reform.

133. Following the restructuring of the project, government failed to ensure that APIX hire a
dedicated project team, contributing to further delays in project implementation and the
attainment of PDO. Consequently, overall, the Government’s performance was Moderately
Unsatisfactory.

134. However it is noteworthy that government was instrumental in facilitating
implementation of some key activities. It has successfully undertaken important reforms (among
others, investment climate reforms has allowed Senegal to be ranked among the world best
reformers in 2008) and establish key institutions for investment promotion and private sector
development (APIX, Procurement Regulatory agency).

(b)    Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

135. Until 2008, the project was implemented by a stand-alone coordinating unit with a small
staff. The M&E specialist who resigned after a few months was never replaced. The
coordination between the PIU and the beneficiaries was not effective due to inefficient
communication and a lack of capacity. Some beneficiaries complained they had no direct contact
with the PIU over a two-year period. Limited interaction between these entities prevented the
early identification of bottlenecks and the contingent implementation of adequate mitigation
measures.

136. Poor oversight of the PIU by the Project Steering Committee resulted in the PIU
submitting annual work programs and budget to IDA without prior discussion and approval by
the steering committee as required by the Financing Agreement, and the government decree
establishing the steering committee. Following the closure of the PIU and the transfer of
activities to APIX, there was no formal handover between the two entities, and archives were not
transferred to APIX. As a consequence, APIX had to rely on help from the task team and
beneficiaries to retrieve information and no objections issued by the bank team.

137. Fiduciary management is rated moderately unsatisfactory. Ineligible expenditures
incurred through ineligible procurement and payment for services that were not delivered were
identified by the task team and led to a six month suspension of project disbursements. Project
restructuring resulted in some improvement to fiduciary management. However, the financial
management team failed to act on important recommendations to improve internal control and



                                                23
enhance disbursement. Despite significant improvement following project restructuring
provision of procurement support to beneficiaries continued to be hampered by delays.

138. The M&E function is rated unsatisfactory; as the M&E position was never filled
following the departure of the specialist which resulted in a failure to produce progress reports
on schedule.

139. Following the closure of the PIU and the transfer of implementation responsibility to
APIX, the pace of implementation significantly increased, but slowed soon thereafter. This was a
consequence of an increase in the workload of APIX unrelated to the implementation of the PIPP.
Disagreement between the task team and APIX on the need to hire a dedicated fiduciary team
contributed to a breakdown in dialogue. When the team was eventually hired there was
insufficient time to complete key project activities, which were ultimately dropped.

140. The PMU was instrumental in ensuring implementation of some activities especially
those of beneficiaries that had little capacity.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

141. Based on the Moderately Unsatisfactory government performance and Moderately
Unsatisfactory implementing agency performance, overall Borrower performance is rated
Moderately Unsatisfactory.

6.     Lessons Learned

142. Consensus with regard to the content of project activities is critical to ensuring
ownership and successful implementation. The project included activities for which there was
no consensus among stakeholders. As a result some activities lacked the requisite ownership for
efficient implementation. The objective was not achieved.

143. Restructuring should initiate as early as possible during project implementation to
maximize its impact. Following the lifting of the suspension of project disbursement,
recommendations from the task team to restructure the project were accepted both by
government and IDA management. However delays in the implementation of the proposed
restructuring significantly hampered its efficiency and limited its impact. As a result project
performance worsened following the restructuring, as the time envisioned for the implementation
of restructured activities was truncated.

144. Project supervision requires close oversight, and active decision-making from
management in light of early warning signs. Failures in project implementation were
compounded by a lack of adequate supervisory oversight and management inaction when the
situation warranted bold action. Despite a clear mandate to restructure the project as early as
2006, the Bank team was unable to complete the recommended restructuring for almost four
years. This suggests deficiencies at the level of Bank management, who could have been more
forceful in ensuring the timely completion of restructuring by the team.




                                               24
145. The capacity of implementing entities needs to be thoroughly assessed prior to
project approval or effectiveness. Project implementation was significantly affected by the lack
of technical leadership on the part of beneficiaries, who were intended to implement their own
activities. This was compounded by capacity limitations evident in the initial PIU and,
subsequently, the APIX. To ensure effective implementation of projects implementing agencies’
capacity should be fully assessed and technical support provided prior to project approval or
effectiveness.

146. Adequate M&E framework and impact evaluation mechanisms should be
institutionalized at project inception. Project implementation and the ability to monitor and
measure achievements was negatively affected by the lack of an appropriate M&E framework,
and the absence of impact evaluation mechanism. Furthermore, for the majority of its existence,
the PIU did not have a dedicated M&E specialist. As a consequence, implementation progress
could not be adequately monitored and project achievements properly measured.

147. Steering committee composition should be balanced and inclusive, and benefit from
high level representatives able to influence and/or accelerate decision-making. In the early
stage of project implementation the steering committee was insufficiently involved in project
implementation and failed to ensure adherence to credit agreement requirements. This was a
consequence of its unbalanced composition and the relative lack of authority of its members. The
composition of project steering committees should be representative of all stakeholders and
include representatives with the influence and authority to accelerate decision-making.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

None.




                                              25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)     Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)

                                                            Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
           Components                                       Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                               millions)
Component 1: Improving the
                                            10.20                   5.45               53%
Investment Climate
Facilitating Private Participation          13.80                  12.96               94%
Stimulating Sector Investment and
                                            17.00                  16.97              100%
implementing policy reform
Supporting implementation and
                                            10.30                   9.06               88%
capacity building
Total Baseline Cost                         51.30                  44.44               87%
Physical Contingencies                                                                  0.0
                                             0.00                   0.00
Price Contingencies                                                                     0.0
                                             0.00                   0.00
Total Project Costs                          0.00                   0.00
Front-end fee PPA                            0.00                   0.00                0.0
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.00                   0.00                0.0
Total Financing Required                     0.00                   0.00


(b)     Financing

                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of                                   Percentage of
            Source of Funds                              Estimate       Estimate
                                         Cofinancing                                  Appraisal
                                                       (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                  2.00            1.6           77.00
 International Development Association
                                                           51.30           44.44          87.00
(IDA)
 Local Sources of Borrowing Country                         0.00            0.00          0.00




                                                26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                                                       Achievement After
      Component                   Achievement Before restructuring
                                                                                         restructuring
Component 1:
Investment Climate has   Justice sector expenditure development and
improved.                expenditure plan has been prepared and is being          Selected Doing Business
                         implemented.                                             Indicators were not improved.

                         RCCM delivery system in Dakar has been                   Public private Dialogue was
                         computerized                                             strengthened through the
                                                                                  establishment of Presidential
                         Anti-money laundering legislation promulgated.           Investment Councils.

                         The Center for arbitration is operation and effective
                         in resolving conflict.
                                                                                  RCCM delivery system has
                         Trademark legislation, including intellectual property   been computerized
                         rights has been adopted.                                 nationwide.

                         Complementary decrees need to be adopted to
                         complete the legislative and institutional framework.

                         Neither the new procedures nor the new institutions
                         for land distribution are in place.
                         The time it takes to allocate land has not improved.

                         The time to register a firm had been reduced to 58
                         days by mid term.

                         It now takes 2 days to start a business.

                         The new investment code, including the elimination
                         of most exemptions was adopted.

                         At least 3 codes were approved including the
                         investment, the mining and telecommunication.

                         While entry and operations in the artisanal sector is
                         simple, entry in the leather and tourism industries
                         need further simplification.

                         The exemption regime was revised.

                         Tax reform is in line with Government’s action plan
                         has been implemented. METR has been brought
                         down to 28%

                         Tourism taxes & levies, allocation of cultural
                         royalties, vocational training taxes have not been
                         eliminated or redirected towards the intended
                         purposes by midterm review or as of May 2010.

                         Airport does not meet safety and handicap standards
                         as per category 1 requirements. A new airport is



                                                     27
                                                                                          Achievement After
      Component                     Achievement Before restructuring
                                                                                            restructuring
                           under construction

                           Customs is not yet converging towards ISO 9000
                           certification. However, the time it takes to clear
                           goods has been reduced substantially to 11 (export)
                           and 14 days (import).


                           The training carried out and the capacity building
                           undertaken.

                           The Presidential Investment Climate Council is in
                           place and is organized once a year while technical
                           discussions are ongoing.

                           The PIC remains in place and there is continuous
                           dialog between the authorities and the private sector.
Component 2:
Private participation is   APIX annual business plans are updated and
facilitated and            implemented.                                              Matching Grant was not
competitiveness                                                                      restarted
enhanced.                  APIX is fully operational and –based on its data - its
                           investment promotion activities have resulted in          Partial Credit Guarantee
                           116000 new jobs.                                          scheme for banks to lend to
                                                                                     SMEs was not implemented
                           The infrastructure studies have been carried out.
                                                                                     APIX Business Plan is still
                           Matching grant scheme has been ineffective at             being implemented with
                           developing skills and is not sustainable. Moreover, it    project support
                           has not contributed to increasing manufacturing
                           output or job creation.

                           The development of the business plans has started but
                           is not yet completed.

Component 3:
Sector development is      Financial restructuring of pension schemes has not
stimulated and             been done yet. A new corporate governance plan for
policy reform              IPRES is not yet in place.
implemented.                                                                         Tourism strategy was not
                                                                                     updated
                           The second phase reform action plan of the pension
                           scheme has not been adopted or implemented.               Regulations related to the law
                                                                                     on intellectual property have
                           Telecommunications strategy has been implemented          not been adopted yet.
                           and teledensity has more than doubled to reach 45
                           percent.

                           Institutional responsibilities in the telecommunication
                           sector have been clarified.

                           Telecommunication monopolies have been
                           terminated.



                                                       28
                                                                       Achievement After
Component            Achievement Before restructuring
                                                                         restructuring
            A second national operator has received a license and
            has been operating.

            The telecommunication legislation was reviewed.

            The legislation on development of electronic
            commerce and protection of industrial and intellectual
            property was prepared.

            All telecommunication providers have access to
            bandwidth on competitive terms.

            The legal and regulatory framework for the
            development of ICT has been established. A
            regulatory agency for telecom and postal services
            (ARTP) has been established and is operational and
            sustainable.

            Spectrum management equipment has been procured
            and installed. It is operational and the users have been
            trained to ensure an optimal use of spectrum
            resources.

            Technical regulation tools were prepared.

            A rural access strategy is being implementing
            contributing to the increasing access to ICT services.

            A pilot project was designed and implemented.

            The data base for the ARTP has been designed and is
            in place.

            Over 500 new rural localities are connected to the
            telecom network.

            Restructuring of postal corporation started but was
            not achieved. Financial sustainability of the postal
            corporation was not achieved.
            Business plan partially implemented.

            Postal Sector policy developed and partially
            implemented. Market study was completed.

            Corporate strategy on development of postal financial
            services was developed.

            A financial service has been spun off into a separate
            subsidiary of the postal entity and is operating.

            Tourism sector strategy has been formulated.

            Masters plans have been developed




                                        29
                                                                               Achievement After
     Component                  Achievement Before restructuring
                                                                                 restructuring
                       Tourism office has been created and is operational.

                       6 studies have been completed.

                       No advisory group of experts on tourism has been
                       appointed.

                       An investment conference for the tourism sector has
                       not taken place.

                       The law on intellectual property has been adopted and
                       promulgated. This law needs to be completed by the
                       adoption of related decrees.

                       The capacity building has not taken place.

                       The pre feasibility was not carried out.

                       The archives are not yet in place but the process is
                       underway.

                       Divestiture of SONACOS has been completed. Sector
                       reform removing barriers to entry not carried out to
                       improve sector’s performance and reduce price.

                       Surcharge on edible oil have been removed.
                       SONACOS has been privatized.
Component 4: Project   Due to credit agreement violations, the project was
Implementation and     suspended, the PIU closed and the Steering
capacity building      Committee revamped.




                                                   30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

None.




                                           31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)     Task Team members

                                                                            Responsibility /
Names                        Title                                  Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Adama Toure                  Rural Development Specialist           AFTR2
Antonio Estache              Adviser, Economic Regulation           PSIVP
Beat Heggli                  Sr. Investment Promotion Officer       MIGA
Bourma Diaite                Sr. Procurement Specialist             AFTPC
Cherif Azi                   Sr. Private Sector Specialist          AFTPS   Original TTL
Elizabeth Crompton           Consultant for Tourism                 AFTPS
Fily Sissoko                 Financial Management Specialist        AFTFM
Hermina Martinez             Consultant, Qualiy Assurance
Iain Christie                Consultant for Tourism                 AFTPS
Iradj Alikhani               Sr. Economist                          AFTPS   TTL
Isabella Ngoc Dung Andress   Sr. Information Specialist             CITPO
Jacques Morisset             Peer Reviewer                          PSAFI
Jessica Schnable             SME Specialist                         CSMDR
Kishor Uprety                Sr. Counsel, Legal Reform              LEGAF
Leopold Sarr                 Rural Development Specialist           AFTR2
Maimouna Savane              Private Sector Specialist              AFTPS
Ousmane Badiane              Rural Development Specialist           AFTR2
Paul Noumba Um               Lead Telecommunication Specialist      CITPO
Peter Miovic Consultant      Peer Reviewer
Robert Palacios              Sr. Economist, Pensions                HDNSP
Shenhua Wang                 Sr. Private Sector Specialist          AFTPS
Sherri Archondo              Sr. Financial Sector Specialist        AFTPS
Sidonie Jocktane             Program Assistant                      AFTPS
Solange Alliali              Sr. Counsel, Legal Reform              LEGAF
Wolfgang Chadab              Sr. Disbursement Officer               LOAGI
Supervision/ICR
 Aissatou Diack              Senior Health Specialist               AFTHE
 Aissatou Dicko              Program Assistant                      MNSHD
 Amadou Dem                  Senior Economist                       AFTFW
 Babacar Sedikh Faye         Operations Officer                     CAFJ6
 Bourama Diaite              Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
 Boury Ndiaye                Program Assistant                      AFCF1
 Cheick Traore               Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
 David Bridgman              Manager                                CICAF
 Eric Jean Yoboue            Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
 Fatou Fall Samba            Consultant                             AFCF1
 Fily Sissoko                Lead Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Gilberto de Barros           Senior PSD Specialist                  AFTFW   TTL
 Gustavo C. Demarco          Lead Economist                         MNSSP


                                              32
                                                                                     Responsibility /
Names                          Title                                   Unit
                                                                                     Specialty
 Haroune Ould Sidatt           Consultant                              AFMMR
 Iain Thornton Christie        Consultant                              AFTFE
 Isabelle Huynh                Senior Operations Officer               TWICT
 Ismael S. Ouedraogo           Consultant                              AFTAR
Jacqueline Veloz Lockward      Program Assistant                       AFTFW
 Jean-Christophe Ngo           Consultant                              AFTFW
 Jessica A. Schnabel           Investment Officer                      CFGME
 Korotoumou Ouattara           Sr Financial Economist                  AFTFW         TTL
 Luc De Wulf                   Consultant                              PRMTR
 Lucy M. Fye                   Senior Private Sector Development       AFTFE
 Magueye Dia                   Consultant                              AFTFW
 Marie-Sophie Tar              Consultant                              AFTPS-HIS
 Michaela J. Weber             Private Sector Development Specialist   AFTFE
 Osval Rocha Andrade Romao     Financial Management Specialist         AFTFM
Peter Mousley                  Lead PSD Specialist                     AFTFE         TTL
 Renee M. Desclaux             Senior Finance Officer                  CTRLD
 Robert J. Palacios            Team Leader                             HDNSP
 Ronnie W. Hammad              Senior Operations Officer               ECSSD
 Saidou Diop                   Sr Financial Management Specia          AFTFM
 Shireen El-Wahab              Consultant                              EASFP
 Sidi Mohamed Boubacar         Lead Operations Officer                 MNC03
 Sidonie Jocktane              Executive Assistant                     AFMGA
 Vincent Palmade               Lead Economist                          AFTFW
 Yann Burtin                   Senior ICT Policy Specialist            TWICT

(b)     Staff Time and Cost

                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                              18.09
  FY99                                                                             108.43
  FY00                                            21                                67.61
  FY01                                            15                                62.34
  FY02                                            48                               205.24
  FY03                                            80                               268.44
  FY04                                                                               0.00
  FY05                                                                               0.00
  FY06                                                                               0.00
  FY07                                                                               0.00
  FY08                                                                               0.00
Total:                                           164                               730.15



                                                33
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                                         0.00
  FY99                                                                         4.43
  FY00                                              4                          4.81
  FY01                                              2                          1.09
  FY02                                              1                          0.35
  FY03                                                                         6.43
  FY04                                          51                           114.29
  FY05                                          36                           252.37
  FY06                                          35                           171.36
  FY07                                          32                           153.00
  FY08                                          25                           133.73
  FY09                                           7                             0.00
Total:                                         193                           841.86

(c)    Project Task Team Leaders

Names                 Title                                Period
Iradj Alikhani        Sr. Economist                        From Approval to March 2005
Peter Mousley         Lead PSD Specialist                  March 2005 to September 2007
Gilberto de Barros    Senior PSD Specialist                From September 2007 to January 2011
Korotoumou Ouattara   Senior Financial Sector Specialist   January 2011 to December 2011




                                               34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

None.




                                      35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


In parallel to the Bank ICR, the Government convened a stakeholder workshop in Dakar on May
7, 2012 to evaluate the PIPP. The main highlights of the workshop are presented below:

Despite significant delays to project implementation, workshop participants concluded that
overall project implementation was satisfactory. Development outcome indicators were met and
in some cases exceeded, with a disbursement rate close to 90 percent at project closing.
Important achievements were also recorded with regard to the implementation of individual
components.

The workshop emphasized that, notwithstanding outcome indicators, the project contributed to:
   i)    Strengthening of public-private dialogue;
   ii)   Improvement of the business environment;
   iii)  Enhancement of enterprise competitiveness; and
   iv)   Improved investment promotion and facilitation mechanism.

Participants pointed out that the satisfactory outcome of the project was the result of renewed
commitment from beneficiaries, especially after TTL change.

The workshop noted that implementation challenges were attributable to the following factors:
   1) A lack of knowledge of IDA procedures by beneficiaries;
   2) Important differences in project management rules;
   3) Long delays in issuance of “no objections?;
   4) The lack of technical capacity within beneficiary institutions to implement activities;
   5) Waning commitment on the part of some beneficiaries;
   6) A difficult relationship with the one of the TTLs;
   7) Inadequate restructuring (long delays, flaws in design, lack of consultation, no handover
      between previous and new implementing agency); and
   8) Limited capacity at the PIU level

The workshop recommended the following measures as a result of the experience derived from
the implementation of the PIPP:
    a) Ensure that work programs are approved prior to the end of each year and counterpart
       funds are released by government by March 30.
    b) Clarify the roles and responsibilities of all project stakeholders.
    c) Set standards for processes and ensure that they are met by all parties.
    d) Ensure that the steering committee plays its oversight role.
    e) Build broad consensus with regard to the content of activities and project design at
       inception, or at restructuring.
    f) Ensure satisfactory design and implementation of a M&E framework

Finally the workshop strongly requested the preparation of a follow-up operation to implement
discontinued activities, deepen reforms supported by the project and address new challenges to
private sector development in Senegal.


                                              36
Annex 7. Executive Summary of Borrower's ICR

Introduction

With the technical and financial support of the World Bank and in partnership with the Private
Sector, the Government of Senegal initiated a Project for the Promotion of Private Investment in
Senegal (PPIP) globally estimated at 33 800 000 DTS (38 364 000 000 CFA). The project which
was implemented between February 2004 and December 2011, was primary aimed at creating the
conditions to stimulate the sustained increase in private investments by improving the investment
climate, ensuring further participation of the Senegalese Private Sector in economic activities and
implementing general and sectoral reforms.

I.   Evaluation of PPIP activities

       1.1 Key events in the life of the project

Three (03) major events marked the life of the project: suspension, resumption and restructuring.
Effective in February 2004, PPIP disbursements were suspended by IDA (International
Development Association) from July to December 2008. To facilitate the implementation of all
project activities, the Senior Minister of Finance and the Economy, in a letter dated 2 December
2008, requested IDA to extend the project for 20 months. The Government having met all the
conditions for the lifting of the suspension, IDA through a letter dated 24 December 2008, ordered
the lifting of the suspension measure. In September 2011, the State of Senegal requested the
cancellation of the IDA loan concerning the balance of cost-share funds and the partial portfolio
guarantee, i.e. a global amount of 4 276 074 DTS corresponding to 3 245 540 166 CFAF.

       1.2 Overall Project Evaluation

The overall objective of the PPIP, which consisted in creating conditions likely to stimulate a lasting
increase in private investment in Senegal, was divided into three (03) global performance indicators,
namely:
    • the creation of 100 new companies that have received investment incentives and have
        started operating;
    • the level of private investments reached US$ 3 billion ;
    • the number of new direct jobs created at the end of the project reached 130 000.

As of 31 December 2011, the project's closing date, the evaluation of the project was considered
globally satisfactory by the State of Senegal, since the global indicators had been attained thanks to
the different activities undertaken by beneficiaries.

The implementation of activities in the different components led to the creation of 778 new
companies, and helped attain an investment level of 3.2 billion dollars, i.e. 1100 billion CFAF
against 700 billion CFAF at the beginning of the project and finally to generate 155 000 jobs.




                                                  37
 In fact, the project through the beneficiaries’ commitment, helped attain a satisfactory level of
technical and financial implementation (more than 90% of financial implementation rate.

A summary of beneficiaries’ assessment revealed the following positive points:
    Strengthening public-private dialogue through the Presidential Investors Council (PIC),
      which is a flagship model in Sub-Saharan Africa. Thanks to the PPIP, 10 PIC sessions were
      held and funding was provided to its Permanent Secretariat;
    Improving the business climate. Improving the regulation and regulating business practices
      translated into an increase in private investments during the first decade of the third
      millennium and the country’s positioning as the leading African reformer in the 2009 Doing
      Business ranking. This also translated into the creation and development of successful and
      innovative companies in various sectors;
    Thanks to the efficiency of the established reforms management and monitoring system, the
      Senegalese administration was progressively transformed into a « service administration »
      more aware of the concerns of businesses through strengthened partnership between the
      public and private sectors. Thus in 2012, the investor, regardless of his/her nationality, can
      set up a business within the same timeframe as in Canada, i.e. in 48 hours, which is the best
      UEMOA performance. Foreign trade formalities are completed in 8 days, which is less than
      the average in OECD countries. Moreover, economic and trade disputes can be resolved
      faster with the establishment of specialized chambers.
    The conduct of strategic and preliminary studies helped guide leaders in some public policy
      choices for the development of the private sector notably in the following areas:
           Tourism: National tourism development strategy
           Justice: Study on commercial litigations
           Private sector: Evaluation private sector support facility
           Financing: Study on interest rates in Senegal
           Vocational Training: Mapping of business line profiles
    Strengthening the technical and logistical capacities of beneficiaries through the purchase of
      materials, the organization of training session and study tours, among others.

         1.3 Evaluation by component

         1.3.1    Component A: Improving the investment climate

The objective of this component is to improve and/or strengthen some key determinants of the
investment climate, namely: (a) the legal and judicial framework; (b) the improvement of Doing
Business indicators; (c) supporting the activities of the Presidential Investors’ Council (PIC) to
foster public-private dialogue.

         a) Indicators

Indicator                   Objective    Accomplishment                         Major reform registered
                                         5 days
                                        - Compared to 58 days at the start of
Time required to set up a                                                       Setting up of a One-Stop-Shop within
                            8 days        the project in 2004
company                                                                         APIX in 2005
                                        - Less than the OECD average which
                                          is 12 days and sub-Saharan African



                                                          38
Indicator                  Objective    Accomplishment                         Major reform registered
                                        countries which is 37 days
Number of new                                                                  Setting up of a One-Stop-Shop within
                           10 000       22 001
companies set up                                                               APIX in 2005
Reduction of the                                                               Adoption of a new General Income tax
marginal tax rate of       28%          25%                                    Code in 2004 and reduction on
companies                                                                      corporate tax rate from 35% to 25%
                                        14 days (DB 2012)
                                        11 days (DB 2012)
Reduction of trade                     - Against 26 and 20 days at the start   Dematerialization of customs
deadlines                                of the project in 2004                formalities with the establishment of
    - Import deadline      8 days      - Lower than the average of sub-        the system Gaindé which is being
    - Export deadline      8 days        Saharan African countries which is    replicated in some African countries
                                         31 days for imports and 37 days for
                                         exports)

         b) Impact for beneficiaries

 Ministry of Justice: the overall objective which consists in reducing the period set for the
  issuance of deeds of the Trade and Personal Property Credit Register which can now be done in
  two (02) hours (even though the DB report says it can be done in a day) was globally attained.
 Presidential Investors’ Council: the objective consisting in improving the business climate by
  strengthening public-private dialogue. The outcome is highly encouraging and was acceptable to
  all actors.

                                            Business Environment
A framework for public-private dialogue on effective reforms, the Presidential Investors’ Council, was replicated in
many African countries.
Other major reforms:
         the one-stop-shop for the accreditation of businesses within a period of 10 days for businesses
             accredited under the Investors’ Code and 21 days for businesses eligible for the status of free export
             company
         ISO 9001 certification in 2005 of the one-stop-shops for the creation of businesses and approval under the
             incentive provision and of the office for the facilitation of administrative procedures in charge of land
             issues, among others
         The creation of chambers of commerce in regional and departmental courts
         Computerization of the Dakar Court Registry
         Improved legal and regulatory frameworks (tax code, law on public-private partnerships)



         1.3.2     Component B: Facilitating private participation in the economy and
                   improving competitiveness

The objective of this component is to boost local private investments and attract foreign direct
investments, particularly in the infrastructure and export sectors thanks to: (a) the support provided
to APIX in its private investment promotion activities; (b) the creation of a fund in support of
businesses and professional organizations; (c) the provision of shared-cost funds to SME for their
capacity building activities; (d) a partial guarantee portfolio programme combined with technical
assistance for loans to SME.




                                                         39
       a) Indicators and objectives

Seventy-two percent of APIX’s operating costs at the end of the project are covered by its revenues
and State budget for a set objective of 70%.

The implementation of the ‘shared-cost fund’ sub-component was initiated by the first Project
Implementation Unit and was interrupted following the project’s suspension due to fact that the
Steering Committee and the World Bank could not reach consensus on the new restructuring of the
fund. Actually, the private sector was against the recruitment of foreign consultants while the
required skills could be found at local level. When the project was resumed, the private sector
continued to express the same concerns and this impeded the functioning of the fund. The State
finally requested its cancellation. Consequently, the related indicator could not be reached.

The ‘partial portfolio guarantee’ sub-component could not be implemented because of the length of
the negotiations between the banks, the State and the World Bank about the payment of the
consultant’s charges, and the long and difficult process of selecting the bank to be entrusted with
managing the line. Thus, the project did not attain the objective loans worth US$ 10 million.

       b) Impact for beneficiaries

For APIX, the set objectives consisting in boosting local private investment and attracting foreign
direct investments, promoting and facilitating private investment have been largely achieved.




                                                40
                                            Investments in Senegal
-   A destination best known to investors thanks to
    o The creation and continuing improvement of the internet site, ranked by the SFI Global Investment Promotion
       benchmarking 2012 as one of the best in the sub-region
    o Communication campaigns world-wide
    o Investment Promotion Days in the regions
    o Quality foreign direct investments, in the case of cherry tomatoes, an investment that enables Senegal to be the
       second world exporter
-   Effective promotion tools on high value added sectors and sub-sectors as well as on the creation of businesses
    and approval under the incentive provision
    o Guides for APIX marketing agents and technical ministries concerned, referred to as Market Manager Kit
    o Investors’ guides referred to as Investors’ Briefs

                   Private investments of between 700 billion CFAF to 1100 billion CFAF




                   Foreign direct investments of between 70 billion CFAF to 174 billion CFAF




For CCIAD, the overall implementation rate of projects funded in 2011 is 95%. The PPIP made it
possible for CCIAD to carry out studies, have new equipment and materials, undertake study tours
and business missions. However, it must be underscored that the time allocated to CCIAD to
achieve its objectives was very short.



                                                         41
PPIP made it possible for CNES to prepare and validate the CNES Strategic Plan, renovate the
Executive Management Offices; organize study tours for its members; strengthen the capacities of
members of affiliated organizations; have computer and audio-visual equipment and office furniture
for offices of the Executive Management and regional offices, purchase two liaison vehicles for
regional branches.

The CNP benefited from the PPIP through the funding of its activities linked to the conduct of
studies, the purchase of computer and public-address equipment, electronic documents management
software, two (02) vehicles, specialized reviews and documents, the preparation of a data base on
bilateral, regional and international trade agreements between Senegal and the rest of the world and
a competition and intellectual property information system.


                                                    Private sector
-   Strategic or feasibility studies to evaluate the relevance of projects concerning private sector development and
    facilitate decision-making.
-   Top-level technical capacity building for Chambers of Commerce and Trade in the regions to handle local
    investors



The SME Directorate consider the project’s implementation rate unsatisfactory even though 88%
of SME say that the quality of proposed projects as generally good. Moreover, slowness linked to
payment delays was observed.

         1.3.3    Component C: Supporting the implementation of sectoral reforms

The aim of this component is: (a) to support economic reforms and promote private investments in
sectors with high growth potential (telecommunications and information technologies; postal sector;
tourist activities; music industry) ; and (b) finance the audit of social security institutions (CSS et
IPRES) and the national pensions fund.

For the Ministry of Culture, the cultural industry project initiated with the aim of giving impetus
to the world of culture should be implemented in two phases, legal environment reforms and
investment. However, only the « legal environment reforms» was initiated. A decree was adopted to
set up a new collective management company to guarantee the payment of copyrights. The aim of
this indicator was not achieved. The decree is still in the process of being signed and the royalties
have not yet been paid.

The resources allocated to the Ministry of Tourism should help ensure an enhanced promotion of
the destination Senegal and a better promotion policy for the private sector. To that end, reforms
meant to restructure the sector were implemented, actors were trained to better sell the destination
Senegal and the National Agency for the Promotion of Tourism (ANPT) was set up. In accordance
with the initial objective, a tourism strategy was put in place at the end of the project through the
institution of reforms aimed at restructuring the sector.

The PPIP led to the creation of ‘Post finances’ in the Post Office. It is a branch of the post office
intended to facilitate the poor populations’ access to financial services. The results registered to that



                                                        42
end are globally satisfactory. However, following the restructuring exercise, the post office no
longer benefited from the PPIP since the objective was attained.

The project did not sufficiently impact on the activities within the ministry because of the non-
adherence of the key actors and the problems of institutional instability at the Labour Ministry.
Thus, the audit work scheduled for the Social Security Fund (CSS) and the Retirement and Pensions
Institute of Senegal (IPRES) was not undertaken.

       1.3.4   Component D: Implementing the project and capacity building

The aim of this component is to define (a) the institutional arrangement for the project’s technical
implementation by beneficiary institutions, the administrative and financial implementation by a
small unit and overall supervision by the project’s Steering Committee; (b) support to CEPOD for
the creation of an observatory of competitiveness, and of a centre for economic documentation and
prospective analysis; (c) an information communication programme through the media on issues
related to the business climate, and the identification of mechanisms for enhanced private
participation in this sector; and (d) the dissemination of the new government procurement code
among the national private sector.

   a) Indicators and objectives

All procurement complaints were properly investigated and concluded, i.e. a rate of 100% for a set
objective of 90%.

   b) Impact for beneficiaries

The project remuneration system helped CEPOD conduct feasibility studies concerning the
establishment of a public administration remuneration system based on the performance and study
on the evaluation of factoring business development conditions; participate in training seminars and
workshops for its archivists and purchase new computer equipment. Thus, the PPIP enabled
CEPOD to strengthen the capacity of its agents, improve their working conditions and be more
familiar with archiving techniques and tools.

With PPIP support, ARMP was set up. The funding obtained facilitated the preparation of its
manual of procedure, the acquisition of hardware equipment and staff training. ARMP is fully
operational and should cover all its operational charges thanks to the improved recovery of its
revenues to guarantee its sustainability.

II. Analysis of the project’s Administrative and Financial Management

   2.1 Evaluation of project management organs

The project’s implementation phase was managed by an external and independent management unit
from 2004 to 2008 and then by a management unit hosted within APIX from 2009 to 2011.




                                                43
Order 007738/MEF/DCEF of 24/11/2003 on the creation, organization and functioning of the PPIP
made provision for two organs:
    The steering committee headed by a Chairman placed under the supervision of the Minister
       of Finance and the Economy;
    The Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which is the project’s implementing organ, headed
       by a coordinator under the supervision of the steering committee.

The Bank’s project management team is a validation organ in the project’s implementation process
and, in that capacity, plays a crucial role.

With regard to the implementation of the components, the project’s two management periods
seriously disrupted the achievement of the project objectives. The six month interruption phase
generated losses of corporate memory due to the change in the management unit and in the
management team as well as the problems encountered in the design of the two sub-components:
Shared-cost fund and Partial Individual Portfolio Guarantee. Actually, the implementation of the
shared-cost fund activity, much called for by the private sector, was hampered by the non-
adherence of the private sector to the consultants’ selection method and the reservations it
expressed during the steering committee meeting.

Moreover, the multiplicity of beneficiaries as well as the low internal capacity of some beneficiaries
slowed down the pace of activity implementation because of the need for the PIU to assist them
at every phase of the process (expression of needs/preparation of technical specificities for
evaluating tenders and implementing the activity. This adds to the institutional instability, which
characterized some administrations and significantly slowed down the implementation of some
activities.

The change in shareholding and the merging with another banking institution, which occurred at
the level of the bank that agreed on the management of the partial portfolio guarantee also
contributed in the non-implementation of this activity.

Concerning World Bank procedures, the actors underscored their lack of flexibility and their
difference in terms of application between the pre-restructuring and post-restructuring periods.
Besides, the processing and timeframe for the issuance of non objection notifications were
considered too long, and were sometimes done three to four months after the beginning of the
year in which the activities are supposed to be implemented.
The beneficiaries’ ignorance of the bank’s procurement procedures was a constraint to the
implementation of activities.

   2.2 Evaluation of the overall financial management of the project

The disbursed amounts represent the support provided to the various project beneficiaries for the
strengthening of their capacity, their training, their supply in equipment, the conduct of studies, the
implementation of reforms, the increase in investments, support to competitiveness, etc. It is worth
noting that the bulk of the disbursed funds were assigned to the consultant’s expenses amounting to
10.2 billion CFAF, training and workshops for 5.6 billion CFAF as well as training and equipment
for 3.3 billion CFAF, i.e. a total of about 19.1 billion CFAF, all financing taken together.



                                                  44
                                      Table 1: Project Implementation
                                            Amounts               Amounts        Disbursement    Contribution to
            Type of funds
                                            received             disbursed           rate        disbursements
IDA Funds                                20 558 817 461        20 421 583 114       99.33%           92.64%

Counterparty funds from
Government and beneficiaries with         1 136 314 548         1 080 500 151       95.09%           4.90%
financial autonomy
Shared-Cost Fund                          543 585 412           543 004 745         98.24%           2.46%
Total as of 31/12/2011                   22 250 857 421        22 044 492 379       99.07%

        2.3 Analysis of expenditure per component

                       Table 2: Breakdown of expenditure per component
                        Improving
                                         Strengthening                               PPIP
                       the business                           Sectoral Reform                        Total
                                        competitiveness                         Implementation
                         climate
Accumulated
Disbursed Amounts
                      2 703 263 834      6 429 926 440         8 416 957 161     4 494 344 944   22 044 492 379
as of 31/12/2011
(CFAF)
%                           12.26%         29.16%                 38.18%           20.40%            100%

At the financial level, the loss of corporate memory led to the non-repayment of two activities
already launched and partially refunded by the World Bank because the non- objection notification
issued to the former PIU could not be found.

        2.4 Procurement analysis

PPIP procurement was impeded by the following constraints:
           slow progress due to the beneficiaries’ lack of capacities in the preparation of terms
             or reference and technical specifications and in the evaluation of tenders.
           the often tardy issuance of IDA’s non-objection notifications observed before the
             Task Team Leaders (TTL) were changed at the end of 2010

Thus, the 2010 and 2011 work programmes were implemented only for a period of eight months,
since they were validated only in April 2011 following the change in TTL.

As of 31 December 2011 however, some 70 contracts were signed for close to two (2) Billion
CFAF.

III.    Recommendations relating to project implementation

The recommendations emanating from the project evaluation workshop, held with all the
beneficiaries, can be summarized as follows:




                                                         45
-   For the Senegalese State:
     • Greater collaboration with actors on the intermediary indicators of the project
         components
     • Provide the State counterparty funds not later than 31 March.
     • Negotiate a new private sector support project with the World Bank to boost
         private investment in priority sectors and in regions, on the one hand, and
         sustain the gains, on the other.

-   For the World Bank:
     • Approve work programmes (by the World Bank) not later than 31 December
     • Harmonize World Bank procedures in all projects, notably with regard to the project
         team notion
     • Define the role and limits of the TTL in relation to the steering committee and
         beneficiaries

-   For the Steering Committee:
     • Properly define the role of the steering committee
     • Attribute to the steering committee the full responsibility for judging the relevance of
         activities in place of the TTL

-   For the Project Implementation Unit:
     • Need to preserve the corporate memory to ensure the monitoring and optimal
         management of the project objectives
     • Define the role of the PIU in relation to beneficiaries
     • Compliance with deadlines in the procurement procedures, by all stakeholders thanks
         to the reinforcement of the project team to better manage the implementation of
         beneficiaries’ activities.

-   For beneficiaries:
     • Knowledge and understanding of World Bank procedures
     • Improved needs assessment thanks to the consultants provided
     • Reduce the number of beneficiaries or increase in the size of the project management
         team




                                             46
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None.




                                       47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Development Credit Agreement.

ISR Sequence Nos. 1 to 15.

Mission Aide Memoires and Management Letters.

Project documents (IRIS).

World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy for Senegal (2003).

World Bank, Project Appraisal Document: Private Investment Promotion Project (2003).




                                             48
                 18°W                                                                                 16°W                                                                                           14°W



                                                                                                                                                                               M A U R I TA N I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SENEG AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                    Sénégal
                                                                                                             To                                                 Podor
                                                                                                          Nouakchott                                                                                                                                                                                  REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                                          Rosso                                                                Doue
                                                                                                                             Dagana                                                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
                             SENEGAL                                                                                                                         Ndiayène
                                                                                                                      Richard-Toll                                           Haïré Lao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVERS
                                                                                                                   Lac de
                                                                                                                   Guier                              SAINT-                                                                                To                                                        MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                      LOUIS                                                                Kaedi           Mbout
                                                                                       Saint-Louis                                                                                                                                                                                                    RAILROADS
              16°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Thilogne                                                                            REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                       Mpal                            Va                                     Lagbar
                                                                                                                          ll   ée
                                                                                                                                  d   u Fer                                                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                         Léona                                                                lo
                                                                        Ndiaye                   Louga                                                                                                                               Matam
                                                                                                          Koki
                                                  Tioukougne Peul                                                                                                                                                                                                                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                         Kébémèr                                      Daraa                Linguère                                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                       Fâs Boye                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Va                                          én




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      llée                                          ég                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                               Darou Khoudos                                                                                                                                                               du                                         al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F
                                                                             Mékhé                      Darou Mousti                   LOUGA                                                                     Mamâri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lo
                                                                                                                                                                            Vélingara
                                       CAP-             Kayar
                                                                    Tivaouane                                                                                                                                                                                              Bakel
                                                                                                                 Mbaké
                                       VE
                                       VERT                     Thiès            DIOURBEL                                                                                           La Ferdo                     M ATA M
                             DAKAR
                                                                                                                                                                                            Val
                                            Rufisque
                                                         THIÈS                                   Diourbel                                                                                      lée   du Mboun                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kayes
                                                                                                       Gossas
                                                   Mbour
                                                                                 FATICK                                                                                             Payar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Nayé
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Toubéré Bafal
                                                                                                                                                              oum
                                                                               Fatick                       Guinguinéo                                     Sal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Falém
                                                                                                                                                   KAFFRINE
                                                                                m




                                                                               lo u                   Kaolack
                                                                             Sa                                                   Kaffrine                                                                                                TAMBACOUNDA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                é
                                                          Ndangane
              14°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14°N
                                                                              Sakone            KAOLACK                                              Niahène            Koungheul                    Koussanar
                         AT LAN TI C                                                                   Keur Madiabel                      Nganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MALI
                                                                                                 Nioro du Rip                                                                                                               Tambacounda
                          OCEAN                                                         Karang                                                                                      Maka
                                                                                                                                                                                                   dou
                                                                                                                                                                                                      gou
                                                                                                                                                                                            S an
                                                                                  To
                                                                                                          Gambia
                                                                                 Barra
                                                                                        TH E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Dialakoto
                                                                     To
                                                                    Banjul                   IA
                                                                                       GAM B I A                                                                                                                       Meedina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gounas
                                                                                                                   SÉDHIOU                               e      KOLDA                 Vélingara        M
                                                                                                                                                   anc                                                                                                                             KÉDOUGOU


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ko
                                                                                Diouloulou                                                                                                                  al
                                                                                                                                          am                                                                     ink



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ulo
                                                                                                           Bounkiling
                                                                                                                                       as                                                                              e



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        unt
                                                                        ZIGUINCHOR                                               C                 Diana         Kolda                                                                             Gam




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ou
                                                                                                                                                   Malari                                                                                                bie                           Mako
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Saraya
                                                                                      Bignona                                                                                                    nga
                                                                                                                                                                                             Kaya
                                                                                                 Casamance                              Tanaf
                                                                                                                  Sédhiou
                                                                              Ziguinchor                                                                                                                                                                                       419 m
                                                                                                                                                    To                                                                                                                                              Kédougou
                                                                                                     Goudomp                                       Farim                   To                                                          To
                                                       Diembéreng                 Oussouye                                                                                Bafata                                                    Koundara
                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                 Ingore
                0       25        50   75       100 Kilometers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33475R1
                                                                                                                            GUINEA-BISSAU                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Balake
AUGUST 2010




                0            25         50               75 Miles                                                                                                                                                                                              GUINEA
              12°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12°N
                 18°W                                                                                 16°W                                                                                           14°W                                                                                           12°W
