                                                                                55529
                                                         DATA SHEET


Restructuring                                                                   Status: Final
Restructuring Type: Level one
( 'ls1
, .-f{."_'¥   modifIed 'm
                      '<._   f"!,' .
                              _k ,te:   06/23/201 i)
                                                  \.<'




          Or anization
Agence National Chargee de la                                         Senegal
Promotion de l'Investissement et
des Grands Travaux
Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes, please select from           N
the checklist below and u date ISDS accordingly before submitting the acka e.




7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Original/Current Pro.ject Development Objectives/Outcomes
The objective of the Project is to help create the conditions to stimulate a sustained increase in private
investment in Senegal through an improved investment climate, greater private participation in
economical activities, and policy and sector reform. The project is thus expected to make important
incremental contribution towards Senegal attaining the 8 percent GDP growth called for in the
Government's poverty alleviation program.




7b. Revised Project Development Objectives/Outcomes

The Project development objective is to create the conditions to increase private investment. This will be
accomplished through an improved investment climate, greater private participation in economic activities,
and policy and sector reforms.




                                                      11
                                          Document of
                                   The World Bank
                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                            Report No: 55029-SN




                               RESTRUCTURING PAPER


                                            ONA


                       PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                                           OF THE

                    PRIV ATE INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT

                                 (CREDIT NO. 3762-SE)

                                         MAY 20, 2003




                                           TO THE


                                REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL



                                          July 1,2010




Finance and Private Sector Development
Country Department AFCF 1
Africa Region
               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA      Analytic and Advisory Activities
APIX     Agence Nationale Chargee de la Promotion de l'Investissement et des
         Grands Travaux (Investment Promotion Agency)
ARMP     Autorite de Regulation des Marches Publics (Procurement Regulatory
         Agency)
ARTP     Autorite de Regulation des Telecommunications et de la Poste
         (Telecommunications Regulatory Authority)
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDSMT    Cadre de Depenses Sectorielles it Moyen Terme (Medium-Term
         Expenditure Framework)
CEDAF    Cellule d'Execution Administrative et Financiere (Implementing Unit of
         the PSJ)
CF       Counterpart Funding
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Review
DCMP     Direction Centrale des Marches Publics (Public Procurement Control Unit)
DDI      Direction de la Dette et de l'Investissement (Debt and Investment Office)
FDI     .Foreign Direct Investment
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GPN      General Procurement Notice
HIPC     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
ICA      Investment Climate Assessment
IDA      International Development Association
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IFR      Interim Financial Report
ISO      International Organization for Standardization
IT       Information Technology
MD       Managing Director
METR     Marginal Effective Tax Rate
MIGA     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MIS      Management Information System
MTEF     Medium Term Expenditures Framework
NCB      National Competition Bidding
NPS      National Procurement System
OECD     Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
OHADA    Organisation pour I 'Harmonisation en Afrique du Droit des Affaires
         (Organisation for the Harmonization of Business Law in Africa)
PCN      Project Concept Note
PMU      Project Management Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
PEM      Public Expenditure Management
PIC      Presidential Investment Council
PIPP     Private Investment Promotion Project
PPA      Project Preparation Advance
PREM     Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
PRSC       Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSAC       Private Sector Adjustment Program
PSD        Private Sector Development
PSJ        Programme Sectoriel Justice (Justice Sector Reform Program)
RFP        Standard Request for Proposals
SBD        Standard Bidding Document
SME        Small and Medium-size Enterprise
SPN        Specific Procurement Notices
SSA        Sub-Saharan Africa
UEMOA      Union Economique et Monetaire des Etats de l'Afrique de ['Ouest
           (West Africa Economic and Monetary Union)
USAID      United States Agency for InternationalDevelopment
WBI        World Bank Institute
WTO        World Trade Organization




        Regional Vice President:    Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
               Country Director:    Habib Fetini
                Sector Director:    Marilou Uy
         Acting Sector Manager:     Peter Mousley
             Task Team Leader:      Gilberto de Barros
                                               REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                       Private Investment Promotion Project



                                                           CONTENTS


                                                                                                                          Page


A.~   SUMMARy ................................................................................................................ 1
B.    PROJECT STATUS .................................................................................................... 2
C.    PROPOSED CHANGES ............................................................................................ 2
D.    APPRAISAL SUMMARY ....................................................................................... 13
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING ....................................... 16
A. SUMMARY

1. This Restructuring Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to introduce the
changes outlined in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), and Extension of the Closing
Date from August 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011. This restructuring is a Level I restructuring
due to changes in the development objective and in all of the project's four components which
are being refocused to meet the revised development objective.

2. While some progress has been achieved in terms of meeting the project development
objectives (PDO), the review of the performance indicators shows that only half of the indicators
have been met, and others partially met, making it unlikely that the PD~ would be met by the
current closing date. Progress towards meeting the Development Objective is rated moderately
unsatisfactory; and an implementation of the agreed actions prepared for the restructured project
should bring it to a satisfactory performance within the next ten to twelve months.

3. The major modifications being proposed are as follows:

(i)     Increase the importance of Component 1. Improving the Investment Climate while
        focusing it on the most needed reform areas in light of changes noted since the Project's
        effectiveness and the increased Government clarity and commitment to investment
        climate reform;

(ii)    Re-Iaunch the matching grant subcomponent of Component 2. Facilitating Private
        Participation and Enhancing Competitiveness, so that it operates, as originally envisaged,
        and fully complements the investment promotion facilitation that has been supported
        under the Project and contributes meaningfully to skills development in small and
        medium enterprises.

(iii)   Focus the activities financed under the Project Component 3. Stimulating Sector
        Investment and Implementing Policy Reforms - by terminating Project's assistance to the
        following sub-components which have been completed or will not be completed in light
        of an absence of consensus: (a) telecommunication reform and development of
        Information Technology sector; (b) postal reforms; and (c) edible oil sector reform;

(iv)    Formalize the closing of the stand-alone Project Implementation Unit supported under
        Component 4. Supporting Implementation and Capacity Building and mainstream the
        Project coordination and fiduciary functions through a small management team to be set
        up within an existing governmental institution: APIX;

(v)     Revise PD~ and restructure, simplify, and update the results framework to target and
        better measure the outcomes delivered by each component and subcomponent;

(vi)    Restate the legal covenant to finance a joint IDAJIFC risk-sharing facility. This covenant
        would enable financing the TA and providing partial guarantee for a portfolio of loans to
        participating commercial banks, which meet the eligibility criteria specified in the Risk-
        Sharing Framework Agreement.


                                                 1
(vii)    Extend the closing date so as to enable sufficient time for implementation, and

(viii)   Reallocate funds across the Project categories to accomplish the proposed changes.

4. Restructuring the Project implementation arrangements mentioned above in relation to
Component 4 will be fully formalized during this restructuring, since it has been agreed and
partially implemented by the Borrower to meet the conditions to lift the Project disbursement
suspension which occurred last year. The measures adopted by the Borrower to lift the
suspension of the disbursement also created the conditions for the Project to be implemented in
adherence with Bank fiduciary and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) guidelines.

5. Furthermore, this restructuring will help address the project deficiencies. These key
implementation deficiencies were, by and large, related to inadequate Project coordination and a
disregard for procurement, financial management guidelines and procedures, and the M&E
functions. These deficiencies have been partially addressed by closing the PIU, and ensuring
closer involvement of a significantly revamped Steering Committee. These changes were critical.
However, more changes are needed to meet the project's development objectives by ensuring a
closer attention to providing timely and qualitY implement~tion support to project beneficiaries.

B. PROJECT STATUS

 6. The implementation progress is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. While some progress was
 achieved,'particularly under Component 1: Improving the Investment Climate, and under
,Component 2: Facilitating Private Participation, the overall Project's performance was not
 satisfactory. The implementation progress of the Key Performance Indicators, as extracted from
 page 2 of the PAD reflects the uneven implementation progress that translates into only 6 of the
 14 key performance indicators having been met and another 4 partially met.


 C. PROPOSED CHANGES

 Project's Development Objectives

 7. The initial PDO was as follows: "The Private Investment Promotion Project development
 objective is to create the conditions to stimulate a sustained increase in private investment
 through an improved investment climate,greater private participation in economic activities, and
 policy and sector reform. The project is thus expected to make important incremental
 contributions towards attaining the 8 percent GDP growth called for in the Government poverty
 alleviation program."

 8. The revised Project Development Objective reads as follows: "The Project's development
 objective is to create the conditions to increase private investment. This will be accomplished
 through an improved investment climate, greater private participation in economic activities, and
 policy and sector reforms."




                                                  2
9. The PD~ was revised to simplify and clarify it while making it more realistic since Senegal
is not going to achieve what was mentioned in the previous PD~ as " ... the 8 percent GDP
growth called for in the Government poverty alleviation program."

Resultsllndicators

10. As a result of the reduction in the number of activities financed under the Project, the
Results Framework has been revised and simplified to significantly reduce the number of
indicators from 81 to 12. Additionally, the new results framework includes more relevant and
up-to-date performance indicators that are better suited to evaluate and monitor the
implementation progress toward achieving the PD~ under the restructured Project. Furthermore,
the performance indicators for certain components have been revised to reflect that the indicators
established in the original results framework have been partially achieved and that new
indicators are needed to monitor the performance during the implementation of the restructuring
phase. A summary of the revised Results Framework appears in annex 1.

Components

11. The changes proposed in the restructuring are as follows:

   (a) Formally close the Project Management Unit, which had been receiving support through
       Component 4, Supporting Implementation and Capacity Building

12. The Region's "Guidance Note on Project Implementation Arrangements for Investment
Lending Operations" states, "Existing government institutions (using civil servants and country
systems and procedures) should be the first choice to implement Bank-financed Projects." On
this basis, and in light of the existing institutional capacity of Project's beneficiaries to
implement their respective activities, it has been agreed with the Government that the closing of
the PIU achieved in the context of the lifting of the Project's disbursement suspension will be
formalized. The PAD states that most beneficiary organizations "have the capability to manage
the activities supported by the Project. Strong complementary implementation capacity [is]
needed to ensure that Project objectives are met. The Credit will thus finance a team of high
caliber local professionals located at the PMU and the related support staff." This assessment
remains valid today since most of the Project's beneficiaries have the capacity to implement and
manage their respective activities if adequately supported by a small team of local professionals
located in APIX. This team of professionals would oversee the coordination, financial
management, procurement, reporting, M&E, audit, and related functions.

13. These arrangements differ from the previous stand alone PIU as it. is no longer a standalone
entity which ensures the project coordination and fiduciary functions, but an existing institution.
Moreover, these new arrangements help build sustainability by using APIX's staff (accountant,
procurement and financial specialists) which will remain even when the project closes. However,
to ensure that the project completes its activities on time, a dedicated Project Coordinator would
also be recruited. However, as this function will no longer be needed when the project is closed,
the project coordinator would not remain at APIX.



                                                3
14. Under the restructured Project, the small team of three professional will be housed within
APIX, an institution which has previously managed the project preparation advanced (PPA) and
is the project's largest beneficiary. This institution was chosen since it had already positively
been assessed by the Bank team in the context of the pr.eparation of the approved Dakar-
Diamniadio Toll Highway Project for which it acts as a Project Unit. This team will be
responsible for project coordination, as well as for fiduciary functions and M&E and under the
oversight of the revamped Project Steering Committee. While the three additional staff are being
hired APIX's Deputy Director is carrying out the Project Coordination functions. The project
procurement support is provided by APIX's procurement specialist and its accountant and the
assistant account are ensuring adherence to Bank financial management standards. The three
additional local professionals would thus be hired to ensure that APIX has all the resources to
carry out its expanded responsibilities effectively and ensure that the Project objectives are met.
The Restructured Project will thus finance a small team of high caliber local professionals
located at APIX. This small project team would be fully dedicated to implementing the Project
activities to ensure that the Project makes up the disbursement lag and that all procedures and
guidelines for Bank financed operations are adhered to while ensuring that the earlier
dissatisfaction noted by some beneficiaries is not repeated. To mitigate the risk associated with
the transition period between now and the hiring of the additional project staff, this period is
shortened as much as possible while adhering to Bank procurement guidelines and the need to
advertise. The full team should be in place by September 15,2010. Additionally, the task team
has intensified its implementation support by holding individual meetings with every beneficiary
and APIX to ensure that implementation progresses in a timely manner. The early results of this
approach are quite encouraging and show that implementation progress is taking place.

15. These new implementation arrangements were partially put in place to meet the conditions to
lift the Project's disbursement suspension. However, they need to be strengthened to ensure
adequate project coordination and fiduciary functions. These arrangements also allow for the
immediate mainstreaming of the Project's management, fiduciary, and M&E functions in an
existing government institution. These new institutional arrangements also include the
appointment of the already appointed new President of the Steering Committee and the
replacement of half of its members.

   (b) Increase the importance of Component 1: Improving the Investment Climate, while
       focusing it on most needed reforms in light of changes noted since the Project's
       effectiveness

16. The Project has quite effectively helped finance some work to improve the investment
climate, resulting in Senegal's being ranked the best Sub-Saharan Africa reformer in the 2009
Doing Business report. However, the improvements envisaged for the airport have not started.
Given that the Government is already building a new international airport in Dakar with private
partners, the assistance to be provided to the existing airport for US$l million to update
technology infrastructure, as well as to facilitate the movement of passengers and baggage, is no
longer necessary. Consequently, the amount previously allocated to the airport subcomponent
will be reallocated. The subcomponent on infrastructure regulation that financed capacity
building for the telecommunication regulatory agency is also ended since Project assistance has
contributed to make this institution self sustaining and assistance is no longer needed.


                                                 4
 17. In addition, the activities under Component 1 are being better aligned with the Government's
 own Accelerated Growth Strategy - which was designed in collaboration with the private sector -
 and approved after the original Project design. This strategy was developed in close collaboration
 with the private sector. The strategy lays out the establishment of an investment climate of
 international class as the only cross-cutting theme and the key requisite to fostering growth. The
 activities of Component 1 are now being focused to help the Government improve the
 investment climate in the ways envisaged in the Accelerated Growth Strategy. The restructured
 PIPP would provide assistance that fosters the improvement of the time and cost related to four
 aspects: (a) general entry and operation requirements, (b) import and export procedures for trade,
 (c) construction licenses procedures, and (d) tax administration and payment.

  18. The project will finance the technical assistance that is required to draft the necessary texts to
  change and simplify the procedures in all these four areas. Additionally, to obtain input from
  stakeholders and build consensus .on the investment climate reforms to be implemented, and
  ensure follow up, the Project will continue to extend its support to the Presidential Investment
  Council, which is a effective mechanism for private-public sector dialogue. Moreover, the
  project will provide assistance for consensus building events for every one of the four areas
  mentioned above. The project will also finance the establishment of a management information
. system to computerize the general entry and operations, as well as· a technical assistance to
  digitalize the registration done in years, prior to the establishment of the management
  information system.

     (c) Re-Iaunch the matching grant subcomponent of Component 2: Facilitating Private
         Participation and Enhancing Competitiveness, to fully complement the investment
         promotion facilitation that has been supported under the Project

 19. While the investment promotion assistance provided by the Project has helped attract
 additional private investment to Senegal, this assistance needs to be complemented by a well
 performing technical learning for SMEs through a matching grant to provide a broader range of
 support to· SMEs. The· better performance of the matching grant would help increase labor
 productivity and, overall, firms' performance and enhance competitiveness. To these ends, the
 restructured PIPP would ensure that ''the management of the matching grant will be outsourced
 to a team of local and international consultants," thus bringing back the Project in line with the
 implementation arrangements laid out in the PAD and which will be used under the restructured
 project.

 20. This change in the implementation approach coupled with an emphasis on delivering
 simultaneous training for a group of firms and trainees would help increase the number of people
 trained, as well as the relevance of the grants approved while ensuring adequate separation of the
 approval and payment of the grants. Moreover, in increasing the grants awarded, the matching
 grant now would be expected to focus a greater part of its assistance on more suitable assistance
 including to the five strategic sectors indentified as offering greater potential to increase
 economic growth in the Accelerated Growth Strategy. These sectors are (a) agriculture and agro
 industry, (b) information technology and telecommunication, (c) tourism and cultural industry,
 (d) textiles, and (e) fisheries and aquaculture. This increased emphasis on the key sectors will be
 done without excluding any sector of activity. To this end, the project will not specifically target


                                                    5
the sectors mentioned above so as to allow the market to ultimately determine the sector
beneficiary. Instead, a marketing campaign and voluntary pro active approach to fostering
technical learning for SMEs would be used to help foster the uptake of the assistance for these
strategic sectors. Additionally, in its delivery the matching grant will focus on providing training
for a group of people in certain areas to simplify the approval process and maximize the number
of people trained. Examples of typical training include a variety of skills mix in the hospitality
industry, electricians, carpenters, plumbers, to name a few. As a result of the above
arrangements, the performance of this matching grant is expected to improve in terms of number
of people trained.

21. The matching grant will be implemented using the implementations arrangements already
laid out in the original PAD and in adherence with the procedures established in the prepared
matching grant manual setting forth eligibility criteria for Beneficiaries, as well as terms and
conditions for Matching Grant Agreements, including the procurement, financial and monitoring
aspects. Based on a demand for a matching from a firm or training institutions, a team of
consultants will review the request for the matching grant and determine whether the matching
grants should be approved based on criteria commonly used for matching grants. These criteria
include additionality and selectivity of the proposed training.

22. Component 2 also will increase the assistance to institutions and private associations to help
them develop and start the implementation of their business plans and to offer better services to
their member firms to establish a revenue base for future self sustainability.

23. Assistance to APIX, as a project beneficiary, has been substantial and will continue under the
restructured project. APIX has been by far, the beneficiary which has received the most
substantial amount of assistance and financing under the PPIP, totaling 3.2 billionCFA
(approximately US$ 7 million), as of December 31, 2009. This has helped establish APIX as a
reputable institution in Senegal and beyond. Other key achievements which the project helped
foster include: (i) the establishment of the one stop shop to start up a business at APIX, (ii) the
ISO 9001 Certification of APIX's Investors Facilitation Department; (iii) the good preparation
and management of the Presidential Investment Councils by APIX; (iv) the management of the
Project Preparation Advance of the World Bank financed Dakar-Diamnadio Toll Highway road
with the fiduciary team financed and trained under the PIPP, among others aspects.

24. The additional assistance under the restructured project will support APIX's efforts to
strengthen its capacity and work towards establishing its sustainability. To that end, the project
will continue to finance several technical assistance and capacity building activities for APIX
staff. Moreover, the Project will fund the technical assistance for the ISO certification of APIX's
Marketing and Finance Departments. The Project will also finance the development of a set of
marketing and communication tools (website, brochure, sector kit, etc.). The PPIP will also
provide the assistance to carry out an organizational diagnosis of APIX and to develop strategies
to help ensure APIX's sustainability. To complement this action, assistance will be provided to
allow APIX to exchange experience with other investment promotion agencies such as the one
from Mauritius and Tunisia, including studying how Tunisia has developed medical tourism.




                                                 6
25. The subcomponent on support to divestiture and oversight of public entities for US$500,000
will be discontinued in the restructured Project. The reason is that the support planned under this
subcomponent has been provided and this would allow reducing the scope of the Project and
focus it on activities that are critical to meeting the PD~. Likewise, the support to the Ministry of
Foreign. Affairs which has not been provided for lack of demand also will be discontinued and
the US$l million reallocated.

   (d) Reduce·the number of subcomponents financed under Component 3: Stimulating Sector
       Investment and Implementing Policy Reforms :from 6 to 3 by ending Project assistance to
       three subcomponents: (a) telecommunication and development of information
       technology, (b) postal reforms, and (c) edible oil sector reform

26. Additional World Bank financial assistance is not necessary in the telecommunication sector
since the performance indicators for this subcomponent have been met or exceeded. Moreover,
the telecommunication regulator (ARTP) has been established, as intended in the PAD and has
become a self-sustainable institution that also receives substantial revenues. These revenues are
obtained from the operators' contribution to the Universal Access Fund and the use of a
:frequency management. The US$3.5 million of assistance envisaged to promote rural access to
telecommunications services will thus be reallocated. Moreover, the competition among the three
different operators in the mobile segment of the market has fostered a reduction in the cost of
calls and improved quality of service and access. Independently from assistance through this
Project, these trends will be sustained thanks to the competitive pressures that the Project has
helped establish. Moreover, Agence de Regulation des Telecommunications et des Postes
(ARTP) has significant revenues, and could finance any external assistance that may be required
to complement the in-house expertise. Additionally, the regulator could use the template
documents that were developed under the Project to foster additional universal access.

27. Regarding the postal service sector, and as established in the PAD, the PPIP has financed the
postal service's reforms through the "provision of advisory services, training and purchase of
Management Information System (MIS) and other equipment." These reforms have helped the
postal service company, La Poste, improve its performance. However, this assistance will not be
sufficient to put the company on the path of financially and operationally sustainable
performance. The reason is that, despite its commitments to recapitalize the firm made in the
context of both this Project and the Private Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 38750-SN), the
Government has not done so, despite numerous reminders from the World Bank team and
management. It would thus be counter-productive to continue providing assistance to the firm
through this Project beyond the amount envisaged until the Government commitment of
recapitalizing the company is fully materialized.

28. The restructured Project contains no additional activities for the edible oil sector reform
subcomponent, since the activities planned under this component have been completed. As
envisaged under the PAD, the project financed the technical assistance to prepare the divestiture
strategy of SONACOS, the then State-owned groundnut corporation. The divestiture took place
and was one element of the sector strategy, which also included the removal of the excise tax
(Taxe Conjoncturelle d'Importation) on edible oil and the harmonization of the import
surcharge on processed and unprocessed edible oils (Taxe specifique.). Althoughthe application


                                                  7
of the excise tax was suspended for a period, an upsurge of palm oil imports in 2005 lead the
authorities to reinstate all protections against imported edible oil. This measure, however, did not
comply with WAEMU and WTO provisions regarding safeguards measures and constituted,
from the Bank's view, a reversal of policy commitment. In light of this situation, the financing of
additional activities could prove counter-productive until legal and operational conditions are
continuously in place to guarantee that no barriers to import edible oil into Senegal exist.

29. The restructured Component 3 will provide assistance to undertake the following activities.

   (i) The tourism industry is one of the five key sectors that the Government and the private
       sector have selected as offering potential for growth in the Accelerated Growth Strategy.
       The Project will develop an updated strategy for the tourism se<;tor to provide the
       authorities with a coherent vision and plan that could be later implemented without the
       Project's assistance. Additionally, the Project could help the authorities develop the legal
       arrangements for tourism classification to foster quality service.

   (ii) Regarding promotion' of the music industry, the restructured Project will finance the
        completion of the legal reform regarding the copyright legislation. Specifically, the
        Project will finance the preparation and dissemination of the decrees needed to
        complement the Copyright Law prepared under the Project to operationalize the approved
        Copyright Law. This will allow legal protection against music piracy and create a legal
        and institutional framework conducive to the payment of royalties to musicians and
        artists. The Project also will finance the electronic archiving of Senegal's musical
        heritage, which risk being lost. While the Project originally planned to finance the
        rehabilitation of a building to house the national archives, this approach would be costly.
        Instead, the national musical archive would be archived virtually and be accessible
        independent of the location, thus providing an international platform from which to
        download Senegalese music after payment via the internet, thus helping foster sales and
        even better monitoring of royalties payment.

   (iii)The Project will provide targeted technical assistance (TA) to support the capacity
        building for the pension. This assistance is being provided to finance the financial audit
        reports of the three key pension institutions, which are: (i) Caisse de Securite Sociale, (ii)
        Institut de Prevoyance Retraite du Senegal (lPRES), and (iii) Fonds National de
        Retraites to obtain a better understanding of the financial situation of these enterprises
        and ensure that they are operating with internationally established financial prudential
        standards.

30. The three sub components that have been maintained contain activities for which the
implementation can be completed during the proposed 16 months extension since their respective
implementation has started or is about to start. For example, the decrees needed to complement
the already adopted Copyright Law should be completed by June 25, 2010 and then submitted
for Cabinet's approval. Moreover, dropping this assistance would be counterproductive since it
would result in withholding assistance for an activity which has stared and could be completed
without substantial financial assistance and could have a significant impact in the revenues
earned by musicians and artists.


                                                  8
31. The scope of the assistance under Component 4: Supporting Implementation and Capacity
Building will be reduced by mainstreaming the Project Coordination and fiduciary functions into
an existing public institution. As explained above, this new implementation arrangement enables
the mainstreaming of the Project coordination and fiduciary functions and has been initiated as
part of lifting the Project's suspension of disbursement. Under this component, additional
assistance envisaged in the PAD and that remains relevant will receive support from the Project.
Support will include a public information campaign and targeted assistance to support the Unite
de Politique Economique (UPE), a think tank advising the Ministry of Economy and Finances.
Additionally, the successful reform of the public procurement code will receive targeted
assistance to start establishing a network of likeminded institutions and to ensure that small and
medium enterprises are not denied opportunities to compete for the provisions of goods and
services for public contracts.

   (e) A restated legal covenant to finance a joint IDAlIFC risk-sharing facility will be formally
       added, to be funded by proceeds from the Credit for SDR 1.4 million

32. This covenant would enable financing the TA and providing partial guarantee for a portfolio
of loans to participating commercial banks, which had met the eligibility criteria already
specified in the Risk-Sharing Framework Agreement. It is worth noting that the arrangements for
this risk-sharing facility are modeled after those that have been previously developed and
implemented jointly by the IFC and Bank including in Madagascar and Mali. The assistance is
provided by the development of a partial credit guarantee program for the benefit of small and
medium sized enterprises, through: (i) the provision of financing for local currency, small and
medium enterprise loan portfolio partial credit guarantees to Participating Banks to be issued by
IFC .on a 50/50 pari passu basis and to be partially backstopped by the Borrower on a first loss
basis; and (ii) the provision of technical advisory services and training to personnel of
Participating Banks. It is worth noting that the terms of this Risk-Sharing Facility have been
signed by the Government and by IDA. However, given (i) the time lag between the signature by
IDA and the counter-signature by the Borrower; and (ii) the fact that the Borrower countersigned
a copy and not the original amendments to the DCA that introduced the Risk-Sharing Facility,
the restructuring will be used to restate the amendment to the DCA related to the financing of the
Risk-Sharing Facility.

33. The preparatory work of the Risk-Sharing Facility has started and will help create the
conditions for its implementation during the remaining period. Among the main progress, it is
worth noting the following: (i) Risk-Sharing Framework Agreement; (ii) Risk-Sharing Facility
Agreement; (iii) terms of reference for the technical assistance to be provided to the commercial
banks; and (iv) discussion with a commercial bank that is likely to use the Risk-Sharing Facility.
The facility is meant to foster increased lending of funds to small and medium enterprises
(SMEs) by commercial banks, which often seem to be too risk averse in lending to SMEs. The
facility will reduce the perception of risk by guaranteeing the loans. In addition, under the
restructured PPIP, this component will work closely with the matching grant component to
provide the often-needed TA that an SME requires to address a technical or operational risk
identified by the banker. Under this circumstance, the matching grant would be provided to the
SME to address or mitigate the technical or operational risk, thus providing the commercial


                                                9
banks with the comfort level that would allow the banks to make       an independent decision to
approve a loan for the SME.

(f) A restated covenant reaffirming Development Credit Agreement amendments made through
    the letter dated May 14, 2009 and which establishes an increase in prior review thresholds for
    the Project, as well as the fact that:

   (i) " All goods, works and services (other than consultants ' services) shall be procured in
        accordance with the provisions of Section I of the " Guidelines for Procurement under
        IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated May 2004, as revised in October 2006 and May 2010
        (the procurement guidelines), and with the provisions of this schedule thus restating the"
        Anti-corruption guidelines", and
   (ii) "All consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of the
        "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated
        May 2004, as revised in October 2006 and May 2010 (the Consultant Guidelines), and
        with the provisions of this schedule.

(g) As a result of the decrease in the number of activities financed under the Project. the Results
    Framework has been revised and simplified to reduce the number of indicators.

34. Additionally, the new results framework includes more relevant and up-to-date indicators
that are better suited to evaluate and monitor the implementation progress toward achieving the
PD~ under the restructured Project. The key Project performance indicators, as reflected in the
original DCA and the Project Appraisal Document, also have been simplified as well as updated
to reflect the new performance targets and results framework. Furthermore, the performance
indicators for certain components have been revised to reflect that the indicators established in
the original framework have been partially achieved and that new indicators need to be adopted
to monitor the performance during the implementation of the restructuring phase. A summary of
the revised Results Framework, which will be used to assess and monitor progress, appears in
annex 1.

(h) The Project closing date is being extended from August 30,2010 to December 31, 2011. This
    16-months extension is necessary and sufficient to complete the implementation of the
    Project's activities and will facilitate the achievement of the PDO. The additional time is
    intended to help address implementation and disbursement lags for the numerous activities
    that arelagging in implementation. Moreover, this period would provide sufficient time for
    the implementation of the Risk-Sharing Facility, which is now ready for implementation and
    has been agreed with the authorities.

(i) Reallocate funds between components and disbursement categories to support the changes
    proposed in this document. The tables on page 16 of this package reflect the new and
    proposed allocations.

35. The main changes are to (a) increase funding to finance activities to improve the investment
climate and support the procurement reform; and (b) reallocate unutilized funds from dropped
activities such as updated technology infrastructure for the airport, postal and telecommunication


                                                10
activities, as well as the assistance to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and exchange rate gains
that resulted from favorable fluctuations between the SDR and the US$.

Safeguards

36. The proposed changes do not raise the environmental category of the Project nor trigger new
safeguard policies. The environmental category rating for this project is C.
Institutional arrangements

Formally close the Project Management Unit, which had been receIvmg support through
Component 4, Supporting Implementation and Capacity Building

37. The Region's "Guidance Note on Project Implementation Arrangements for Investment
Lending Operations" states, "Existing government institutions (using civil servants and country
systems and procedures) should be the first choice to implement Bank-financed Projects." On
this basis, and in light of the existing institutional capacity of Project's beneficiaries to
implement their respective activities, it has been agreed with the Government that the closing of
the PIU achieved in the context of the lifting of the Project's disbursement suspension will be
formalized. The PAD states that most beneficiary organizations "have the capability to manage
the activities supported by the Project. Strong complementary implementation capacity [is]
needed to ensure that Project objectives are met. The Credit will thus finance a small team of
high caliber local professionals located at PMU and the related support staff." Under the
restructured Project, the Credit will finance the recruitment of a small team of local professionals
located in APIX. This team of professionals would oversee the coordination, financial
management, procurement, reporting, M&E, audit, and related functions.

Financing

    (a) Project Costs

                                   Project Costs (US$ millions)
                    Components/Activities                     Currene                                Proposed
      Improving the Investment Climate                              7.000                                 10.200

      Facilitating Private Participation and Enhancing                                11.500                13.800
      Competitiveness
      Stimulating Sector Investment and implementing                                  21.800                17.000
      policy reform
      Supporting Implementation and Capacity building                                  5.700                10.300
      Total Cost(*)                                                                   46,000                51,300
    * The difference between the two amounts related to total cost in USD, is due to exchange rate due to the
    appreciation of the Special Drawing Rights against the US Dollar from the negotiation date until now.




1 lfthe   project has had a previous restructuring, the current should reflect the latest approved costs.

                                                             11
         (b) Financing Plan in (US$O,OOO)

                                              Revised financing plan
                                                                                                        Estimates
                                2004       2005            2006      2007      2008       2009       2010      2011
  IDA                            3,281      4,263
                                                      ..

                                                           ·7,591     8,013     7,110      4,591      8,460     8,000
  Cum. IDA                        3.,281    7,544          15,13.5   23.,148   3.0,258    3.4,841    43,300    51,300
  Government                      0,037     0,206           0,335     0,308     0,254      0,158      0,350     0,350
  Cum. Government                 0,03.7     0,243.         0,578     0;887     1,142      1,300       1,650    2,000
  Total per year                  3,318      4,469          7,926 < 8,3.21        7,364    4,749       8,810    8,300
  Cum. Total (IDA+Gov.)           3,318      7,787         15,713 ..24,03.4      31,398   39,590      44,950   53,300


     Reallocations

                            Allocation of Credit Proceeds (All amounts in SDR)
                   Category of Expenditure                                 Allocation                  % of Financing
             Current                         Revised                  Current       Revised          Current    Revise
l. Works                          l. Works                            400,000       400,000           100        100
2. Goods                          2. Goods
         Under Part C.2 (2) of    Under Part C.2 (2) of the          2,200,000                   0     50           50
         the project              project
         Other                    Other                              7,450,000       8,700,000        100           100
3. Consultant's services and      3. Consultant's services
     audit                             and audit
(c) under Part B.1 of the project (c) under Part B.1 of the          3,700,000                   0     50           50
                                  project
(d) under Part B.2 ofthe project (d) under Part B.2 of the           2,200,000       1,650,000         50           50
                                  project
(e) Other                         (e) Other                          11,150,000     13,540,000        100           100
4. Training &Workshop             4. Training &Workshop              2,900,000      4,700,000
5. Operating costs                5. Operating costs                 1,650,000      2,200,000          90           90
6. Refund of Preparation          6.Refund of preparation            1,600,000       1,210,000        N/A           N/A
     Advance                      Advance
6. Partial Credit Guarantee       7. Partial Credit Guarantee         1,400,000      1,400,000        100           100
7. Unallocated                    8. Unallocated                         550,000              0       N/A           N/A
Total amount                                                         33,800,000     33,800,000




                                                              12
Procurement

38. The restructuring provides an opportunity to introduce a restating covenant reaffirming
Development Credit Agreement amendments made through the letter dated May 14, 2009 so that
all the. amendments are contained in a single document. The changes that which had brought
about are the following changes:

   (a) Increase in prior review thresholds for the Project, as well as the fact that "all goods,
       works and services (other than consultants' services) shall be procured in accordance
       with the provisions of Section I· of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
       and IDA Credits dated May 2004, as revised in October 2006 and May 2010 (the
       procurement guidelines); .

   (b) Confirmation that "All consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with
       Sections I and IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
       World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, as revised in October 2006 and May 2010 (the
       Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this schedule".

39. Additionally, .the revised DCA will introduce the "Anti-corruption guidelines", which were
not introduced at the time the project was originally signed.

Closing date

40. In the context, ofthe restructuring, the Project closing date will be extended from August 30,
2010 to December 31, 2011. This 16-months extension is necessary and sufficient to complete
the implementation of the Project's activities and will facilitate the achievement ofthe PDO. The
additional time is intended to help address implementation and disbursement lags for the
activities that are lagging in implementation.

Implementation schedule

41. The Bank has reviewed the effectiveness and realism of the proposed action plan for the
period of the extension in the context of the restructuring to ensure that the implementation of the
activities will contribute to fully meet the Project's objectives. The 16 months extension is
sufficient for the implementation of the activities several of which have already started and will
be completed before the closing date.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

42. The economic analysis undertaken in the original PAD remains relevant.

43. The economic analysis of this type of private sector development (PSD) project presents the
limits encountered in all similar Project evaluations. The difficulty in quantifying the economic
benefits results mainly from the indirect relationship between the Project's intervention and the
stream of benefits; and from the lagged effects of the Project on the.performance of the different
beneficiaries and sectors directly supported. Nevertheless, it is important to note that, with the
reduction of the marginal cost of operating the PCU during the period of extension coupled with

                                                 13
the reduction of the less relevant activities supported under the Project, the overall Project
economic rate of return (ERR) has improved slightly from the 19.8 percent. The reasons are that
the base case scenario was conservative; and important positive externalities, such as the skills
and technology transfers, which are difficult to measure, will be taking place, partly as a result of
the Project's contribution.

44. The main assumptions underlying· this economic analysis are as follows: (i) stable
macroeconomic environment, as projected in the CAS with 4 percent real GDP per annum on
average; and an inflation rate under 3%; (ii) An improved investment climate - including the
reduced tax rate'" helps attract increase private investment; (iii) each $1,000 spent by APIX will
generate 2 jobs by end of project; and (iv) a minimum of 1000 trainees improve their skills
through the matching grant.

45. Moreover, based on preliminary actual implementation results thus far, the cost-benefit
analysis shows greater benefits than expected in the PAD. For example, based on data provided
by APIX, the work done by APIX-.which was supported through the Project-has contributed
to the creation of 28,200 jobs for the period 2004-06. Moreover, US$1.70 billion investment was
made in 2006 by the firms operating with APIX - issued Special Investment Certificates. While it
is not possible to attribute all of the merit of these results to APIX and/or the Project, since
determining how much is actually due to the Project is subjective, it is clear that the project has
been providing APIX some useful assistance. Independently of attribution, the benefits to the
country are higher than envisaged in the PAD. The private investment levels are expected to
continue to' increase throughout the implementation period of the restructured operation. The
ongoing increase is due to the· fact that APIX has already helped the start of several important
Projects. They include the Dakar Port revitalization with Dubai Port World; the mining Project in
Sabodala (gold) and Kedougou; the energy Project, Kounoune, the new international airport; the
toll road Dakar Diamniadio; Dakar Special Integrated Economic Zone; and the investment of the
third telecommunication operator.

46. The Project's benefits and risks, as envisaged in the PAD, are not changed substantially. The
Project was expected to benefit the country by providing employment, the transfer of skills and
technology. Through the performance of Component 2, since 2005, and based on data provided
by APIX, the Project has helped generate over 136,500 jobs, and approved total investment of
over US$ 1.7 billion? Moreover, the Public Procurement agency established under the Project
has helped reduced the percentage of sole sourcing award in the procurement of goods and
services from 80 in 2006 to 14% in 2009, and generated US$ 115,000,000 savings for the tax
payer! These good results will be complemented by the implementation of additional activities
during the restructuring period. Moreover, the reduction of activities proposed under this
restructuring will contribute to .an increased focus on assistance to improve the investment
climate. The latter will, in tum, increase the private sector's productivity and investment, thus
helping create more employment. The Project also is also expected to contribute toward opening
up business opportunities for SMEs based on a transparent and competitive procureIpent system.



2 The perfonnance indicator target is considered as being met based on data provided by APIX. However, this needs
to be continned through an independent evaluation.

                                                       14
Risk

47. The Project's benefits and risks, as envisaged in the PAD, are not changed substantially. The
overall risk assessment included in the PAD was revised. The expected outcomes, which have an
overall rating of "substantial," are set out in detail in annex 2. The central, underlying risk was
the continued implementation of this Project, without strengthening APIX's institutional capacity
for project coordination, as well as for procurement and financial management functions. This
risk is addressed through the financing of the recruitment of a dedicated team of high caliber
specialists to carry out the above-mentioned functions which has started. For the project to meet
its development objectives, the project coordination and fiduciary functions will need to be
carried out in a timely manner and with consistent quality. To mitigate any risk related to the
transition arrangements while the three additional staff are being hired, APIX' s Deputy Director
is carrying out the Project Coordination functions. The project procurement support is provided
by APIX's procurement specialist and its accountant and the assistant account - who are all
familiar with World Bank procedures - are carrying out the financial management
responsibilities. World Bank implementation has recently started to be even more pro active
through a daily communication to ensure timely and quality follow up, particularly during the
transition period. This has shown result in the improved implementation progress.

48. Regarding risk previously identified. The risk related to the payment of counterpart fund
which existed previously has been addressed since counterpart fund for 2009 were paid in full
and the counterpart fund for 2010 are being paid. The portfolio data does not show any delay in
the payment of counterpart funds. Regarding monitoring and evaluation, the results framework
has been completed revamped and it was agreed that a monitoring and evaluation specialist
would be hired every six months to help strengthen this function. The recruitment of a dedicated
project staff as explained in paragraphs 12 through 15 will address the project management issue
and result in an increase of disbursement level. The risk related to the matching grant is
addressed by changing the implementation arrangement to reflect good practice, as informed by
the Bank's implementation of matching grants as clarified on paragraphs 19, 20 and 2l.
Regarding the risk sharing facility, the preparatory work to start this risk sharing facility as
described on paragraph 33 will help mitigate the risk associated with this sub component.
Moreover, this component will receive implementation support from an experienced IDAlIFC
team which is based in Dakar making it easier to promptly provide timely assistance.

49. The risk assessment considers the risk at country and Project levels, and suggests mitigating
measures for each. At the country level, the policy dialogue has been strengthened by a more
active involvement of the World Bank team with all of the Project's beneficiaries. However, the
main risks at the country level are the political and social tensions resulting from the
combination of the worldwide increase in food prices, the world financial crisis, and inadequate
electricity services. These risks will be mitigated by the World Bank and other donors by
providing the authorities with both the technical and financial assistance necessary to help reduce
the negative impact of the most vulnerable segment of the population. At the Project level, the
measures adopted in the context of this restructuring increased the likelihood of achieving the
PD~.




                                                15
                                                                        REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                                                                   Private Investment Promotion Project

                                                                                ANNEX 1:
                                                                    Results Framework and Monitoring


Project Develoument Objective (PDO}:
 "The Private Investment Promotion Project development objective is to create the conditions to stimulate a sustained increase in private investment
through an improved investment climate, greater private participation in economic activities, and policy and sector reform. The project is thus expected
to make important incremental contributions towards attaining the 8 percent GDP growth called for in the Government poverty alleviation program."

Revised Project Develoument Objective:
The Project's development objective is to create the conditions to increase private investment. This will be accomplished through an improved
investment climate, greater private participation in economic activities, and policy and sector reforms.
                                                D-Dropped                                         Cumulative Target Values**
                                         ..     C=Continue
                                         ....   N=New        Unit of        Baseline                                                         Data Source!   Responsibility for
   PDO Level Results Indicators*         0                                                                                     Frequency
                                         U      R=Revised    Measure    (progress to date)       YRI           YR2                           Methodology     Data Collection

Indicator One: 100 new fInns with               New          Number             75                 85           100            Semi annual   APIX reports         APIX
investment incentives start                                  of firms
operating.
                                         0

Indicator Two: The level of private             New          US$            2.5 billion        2.8 billion   3.0 billion       Semi annual   APIX reports         APIX
investment realized reaches US$ 3
billion.
                                         0

Indicator Three: The number of                  Revised      Number          115,000            122,000       130,000          Semi annual   APIX reports         APIX
direct new jobs created reaches                              of jobs
130,000 by end of Project. (Direct       0
project benefIciaries number, % of
females).




                                                                                          16
                                                                                   INTERMEDIATE RESULTS

Intermediate Result (Component One): The previous results framework had 81 different indicators. It is not possible to fit these indicators in the framework provided in this framework.
However, the original results framework was attached as Annex 1 of a fuller draft version of the restructuring paper which is available in files but that has been streamlined for Board
presentation.

Revised Intermediate Result (Component One): Investment climate in Senegal compares favorably with that of countries within WAEMU

Intermediate Result indicator One:                              New     Days          9              9       8                          Annual            DB report          World Bank
The time to register a firm is                    0
reduced to 8 days.
Intermediate Result indicator Two:                              New    % rate        28%         28%       28%                       Semi-annual        Aide memo ire        World Bank
The corporate marginal tax rate is                0
reduced to 28% by 2011.
Intermediate Result indicator Three:              0             New   Number of     8,500        9,200    10,000                     Semi annual         APIX report            APIX
The number of new firms                                                 firms
registered exceeds 10,000
Intermediate Result indicator Four:               0             New     Days      10 (export)        9       8                          Annual            DB report         World Bank
Time to clear goods for
                                                                                  10 (import)
export/imports reduced to 8 days.                                                                    8       8

Revised Intermediate Result (Component Two): APIX effectively plays its role as promoter of investments, and is increasingly able to cover a portion of its operating costs from its
revenues or those of the Budget.
Intermediate Result indicator One:              New       %of                50%         60%          70%                          Annual           APIX report             APIX
APIX operating costs are covered                          operating
at least by 70% by its revenues and    0                  cost
the State budget by end of Project.
Intermediate Result indicator Two:              New       Number of            0          10           25                       Semi annual        Aide memoire         World Bank
The number of loans made using                               loans
the Partial Credit Guarantee           0
reaches 25 by end of project and
the amount lent US$ 10 million.        - - - - - - - - _ .. -
                                                                         '--        '--                                                            -----------------          ---
                                                                                                                                                                                       --




                                                                                                17
 Revised Intermediate Result (Component Three): Actions are undertaken to improve the quality ofthe tourism product and promote the development of the music industry.
 Intermediate Result indicator One:     0            New              N/A        No strategy     Draft        Strategy                   Semi annual       Aide memo ire   World Bank
 A tourism strategy is adopted by                                                               strategy
 end of project.
 A decree is adopted to establish a
 new collecting society or societe de
 gestion collective to ensure
 payment of royalties
 Intermediate Result indicator two:     0            New              N/A        No decree       Decree      Payment of                  Semi annual   Aide memo ire       World Bank
 A decree is adopted to establish a                                                                           royalties
 new collecting society or societe de
 gestion collective to ensure                                                                                                                          -
 payment of royalties
 Revised Intermediate Result (Component Four): Project components are coordinated and are effectively implemented
 Intermediate Result indicator One:     0            New             N/A          ARMPis        ARMPis        ARMPis                     Semi annual   Aide memoire        World Bank
 ARMP is fully operational and                                                    partially     partially       fully                                  Financial Mgt        ARMP
                                                                                 operational   operational   operational                                   report
 covers all of its operational cost
 from its revenues to ensure
 sustainability by end of Proiect.
 Intermediate Result indicator Two: %   0            New                            60%             80%           100%                   Semi annual   Aide memo ire       World Bank
 of annual operating cost covered                                                                                                                         ARMP              ARMP



 Intermediate Result indicator Three:   0            New             %of            70%             80%           90%                    Semi annual   Aide memo ire       World Bank
  % of procurement complaints                                      complaints                                                                             ARMP              ARMP
  properly investigated and decided                               investigated
,-on.                                                                                                         _   .. _------
                                                              -             --            --          -


                                            *Please indicate whether the indicator is a Core Sector Indicator (see further http://coreindicators)
                                              **Target values should be entered .for the years data will be available, not necessarily annually




                                                                                               18
                                                       Annex 2: Risk Assessment




Macro-economic      There is a certain risk to maintaining                   Slippages in macroeconomic
Framework           macroeconomic discipline,                                policies would be mitigated by
                    particularly through off budget                          close monitoring and coordination
                    expenditures and potentially                             by IDA, IMF and other donors. The
                    excessive borrowing.                                     need for external borrowing would
                                                                             be reduced by increased grant
                                                               Substantial   resources.                             Substantial
                                                                             Sustaining sound macro policy
                                                                             stance: The authorities are pursuing
                                                                             corrective fiscal actions started
                                                                             earlier, including the settlement of
                                                                             domestic arrears, which should
                                                                                    offset external shocks.
International       One external risk that has to be                         The government has so far earned
financial and       monitored in the medium-term is the                      out relatively prudent measures in
economic crisis,    fiscal and economic impact of the                        response to recent international
and food and fuel   international financial crisis and food                  developments and continues to
price stability.    and fuel price stability. So far, this                   maintain a dialogue with the
                    imp~ct has been relatively limited, but                  development partners on
                    there is a risk that the situation could                 appropriate policy responses and
                    significantly deteriorate depending on                   the possible need for augmented
                    future developments of the global                        concessional external aid in the
                    economy, which could lead to fiscal        Substantial   form of grants.                        Substantial
                    pressures on the government budget.
                    A prolonged global economic crisis
                    could constrict investment flows,
                    exports and reduced the level of
                    remittances. The important downturn
                    in tourism arrivals due to the
                    suspension of Air Senegal's
                    operations could be exacerbated.




                                                                    19
Country              The collaboration between the                           Eliminate arrears and place
engagement with      government and the World Bank is in                     country's fiscal stance on
the World Bank       relatively good standing. The second                    sustainable track.
and IDA Portfolio    phase of a portfolio review took place
                     in March 2010 to address cross
                                                              Moderate                                                    Moderate
                     cutting issues.                                        IEnsure payment of counterpart
                                                                             funds: The Bank team is working
                                                                             closely with Government so that all
                                                                             CF arrears are paid, and adequate
                                                                                     is secured in the future.

Cross sector- Risks I The erratic access and quality of                      The Bank provides substantial
                      electricity will undermine the                         assistance to the energy sector and a
                      improvement in investment climate       Substantial    strong energy sector.                    I   Substantial
                      and private firms' productivity.                       Implementation progress has been
                                                                             uneven thus far.
                     Resistance to investment climate                        The consensus on the reform is
                     reforms could come from                                 generated through the Presidential
                     stakeholders in the administration                      Investment Council. Since this has
                     who are used to deal with businesses     Substantial    already been done, the resistance            Moderate
                     in a slow and inefficient manner and                    could be overcome.
                     could thus resist the change brought
                     about bv the reform.

                                                                             The Project is changing the
                                                                             implementation arrangements ofthe
                                                              Substantial    matching grant to ensure that it is in   I   Substantial
                                                                             line with the PAD original design
                                                                             and with W     '

                     APIX not able to fulfill its expanded                   The Project is providing APIX with
                     mandate due to increasing demand in                     adequate assistance to raise its
                    .roles and responsibilities.                             performance under the expanded
                                                              Substantial    mandate.                                     Moderate
                                                                             The recruitment of a full time
                                                                             project Coordinator will address the
                                                                                                  issue


                                                                   20
                                                                          addressing the slow disbursement.

                 Private sector organizations do not                      Private sector organizations are
                 participate adequately to the Project's                  now better equipped to participate
                 implementation.                                          effectively to the Project's
                                                           Substantial-   implementation due to past                 Moderate
                                                                          experience, and better
                                                                          communication with both the
                                                                          steering Committee and the PCU.
                 PCU in not able to adequately carry                      The new PCU is being reinforced to
                 out coordinating functions.               Substantial    adequately manage the Project.             Moderate

                 GOS counterpart funds are either not                     The new President of the Project
                 available or not available in a timely                   Steering Committee is the Director
                 fashion.                                                 of Cabinet of the Budget Minister
                                                           Substantial                                               Moderate
                                                                          and is keen to ensuring that the
                                                                                       funds are available.
                 Complex design hinders                                   The Project complexity has been
                 implementation.                           Moderate       reduced through a reduction of             Moderate
                                                                          activities and beneficiaries.
                 Monitoring and Evaluation is not used                    The monitoring and evaluation
                 adequately to improve Project's                          framework has been simplified in
                 performance.                                             the context of the Project
                                                                          restructuring. Moreover, an external
                                                           Moderate                                                  Moderate
                                                                          M&E specialist will carry out a bi-
                                                                          annual evaluation and make
                                                                          recommendations for additional
                                                                                         oftheM&E.




Rating of risks on a four-point scale-High, Substantial, Moderate, Low-according to the likelihood of occurrence and magnitude of
                                                               adverse lrr11'\<ll't




                                                                21
