Dowme.t cf
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
leput a. P-3670G!LI
IMP    JUDm031AI
or TME
PEESID IT OF TME
EOAL D               PR  ssO
TO TME ZEXETI  DnmOUs
car A
P1005WCREDIT
OF SDR 15.9 DILLIO
TO TE
REUIC OF  Al
POR A HERLTR DE=VE   N  PROJZ
November 15, 1983
TINS iarwuui ha a umided dhuidraIm id my be md by ri .clp'. - oly lo lbs peuhmc of
tbdr oUkEd 6duEsft le ub   =m set edmlbse be dhdsud  ibu WoM lBak whmnodm.



CUWENC EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:   =   NaliAzL Pranc (IF) 1/
US51.00          =   IF 746
lF 1,000         =   USS1.35
ABBREVIATrIoNS AID ACRO!1(
ADATA    :   Association pour le D6veloppermet Naturel d'uze Architecture
et d' un Urbanisme Africains
DINPSS   :   DirectiOn ltiOale de la PlanIfication et de
la Formation Sauitaire et Sociale
FED      :   European. Developent Fund
LPCU     :   Local Project Coordiating Unit
NOPHSA   :   Kinistere de la Shnte  PLblique et des Affaires Sociales
ODIPAC   :   Office de Deviloppement Tute  - pour la
Production Aracidi}ere et Czeraliere
PCU      :   Project Coordinating Unit
PP       :   Pharumacie Populaire du Nali
UNPPA        United Nations Funa for Population Activities
WHO      :   World Health Orgaization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
*/  The Nalian Franc (MP) is tied to the French Franc (PF) at the ratio
of FP 1 to My 100.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Mali
Amount:              SDR 15.9 million ($16.7 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Project Objectives   The project would help the Government of Mali to
and Description:   iaprove the effectiveness of primary health care services
and support systems at the national and regional levels.
The project would, at the national level: (a) strengthen
basic and inservice training; (b) improve the supply and
utilization of drugs; (c) develop the planning and
coordinating capability of the Ministry of Public Health
and Social Affairs (HOPHSA); and, at the regional level,
(d) provide primary health care services, including
village level health and water-related health education
activities in three districts in western Mali.
Benefits and Risks:  The project would yield benefits by providing:  (a) at
the national level:  (i) more adequately trained rural
health personnel; (ii) appropriate drug supply at lover
cost; (iii) effective use of public resources through
improved NOPESA planning and implementation capabilities;
and (b) at the regional level: (i) better quality, more
effective health personnel in Mali's western region;
(ii) improved coverage and outreach services for 207,000
people and health care access for an additional 258,000;
and (iii) incentives through health and family planning
education that encourage the population to take greater
responsibility for their own health. The health system
is thus expected to become more efficient and effective.
Diffusion of low-cost stabilized earth construction would
also benefit the economy. Appropriate measures have been
agreed upon to reduce risks with respect to project
management and adequate provisions for incremental
operating costs.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be discbsed without World Bank ac.borization-



-i
Estimated Project Cost: 1/
Local    Foreign    Total
…_____(US$ million)------
A. NATIONAL LEVEL
1.  Health Manpower Development           0.3      0.4        0.7
2.  Drug Supply and Utilization           0.2      2.4        2.6
3.  Planning, Coordination and
Health Education                      1.1      2.6        3.7 2/
Subtotal                              1.6      5.4        7.0
B. REGIONAL LEVEL
1.  Development of Primary Health Care   4.7       1.8        6.5
2.  Village Level Health Education        0.3      0.1        0.4
Subtotal                              5.0      1.9        6.9
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                          6.6      7.3        13.9 2/
1.  Physical Contingencies                0.5      0.4        0.9
2.  Price Contingencies                   2.0      0.8        2.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           9.1      8.5        17.6
Financing Plan:                                                              %
IDA                                           8.1      8.6        16.7      95
Government                                    0.9       -          0.9       5
TOTAL                                     9.0      8.6        17.6     100
1/   Net of identifiable taxes and duties
2/   Includes a US$1.0 million PB? advance.



- iii-
Estimated Schedule
of Disbursements:
FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
Annual              1.00   0.84   3.00   5.01   3.35   2.50   1.00
Cumulative          1.00   1.84   4.84   9.85  13.20  15.70  16.70
Economic Return:         N.A.
Project Completion
Date:                  September 1989
Staff Appraisal
Report:                Report No. 4465-JLI, dated November 15, 1983
Nap:                     IBRD 16998



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A HEALTH DEVELCPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 15.9 milli-on ($16.7 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms to the Republic of Mali to help finance a proposed Health Develop-
ment Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       Two reports entitled "Economic Memorandum on Nali" (3200-MLI) and
"Mali-Special Economic Study--Planning Institutions and the 1974-78 Plan"
(3333-MLI) were distributed to the Executive Directors on June 30, 1981.  The
folloving paragraphs are based on these reports and the findings of recent
World Bank and IMF economic missions. Annex I gives country data.
Economic Resources and Cons'traints
3.       Mali has a population of over 7 million inhabitants, in an area of
1.24 million square kilome'ers in the middle of sub-Saharan 'Jest Africa.  In
1982, GNP per capita was only US$180. By almost any measure, Mali is one of
the least developed countries in the world, with a subsistence-oriented econ-
omy (85 percent of the population depends on the primary sector), dependence
on a few commodity exports, an extremely low rate of domestic savings (minus
2.$7 percent of GDP in 1982), a high population growth rate (2.8 percent), a
low level of education (less than 10 percent adult literacy and a 27 percent
primary enrollment rate), and difficult living conditions that give a life
expectancy at birth of only 45 years.
4.       Poor physical and underdeveloped human resources, as well as inade-
quate economic and social infrastructure, constrain economic growth in Mali in
the short and medium term.  Potential for agricultural production is limited
by uncertain rainfall, fragile soils prone to exhaustion and erosion, and low-
yielding, traditional crop and livestock technologies with little scope for
intensification. Mineral and energy resources are limited and difficult to
exploit. Human resources are underdeveloped, in part because access to basic
amenities like clean water, better health care, and educational opportunities
remains quite limited. There are shortages of skilled workers and experienced
1/   This part has been updated for the President's Report for the Second
Mali Sud Rural Development Project which was distributed to the Executive
Directors on September 15, 1983.



- 2 -
managers. Transportation and communication are extremely expensive by world
standards, because Mali is landlocked and internal distances are vast. The
above factors result in low incomes, small domestic markets, and limited
pot'ential for industrial development.  Finally, Mali is a small open economy,
with trade concentrated in a few commodities.  Imports and exports together
amount to more than half of GDP.  Cotton and livestock comprise four-fifths of
exports, and petroleum and foodstuffs, one-third of imports. Thus, the
country is extremely vulnerable to changes in world prices and declining terms
of trade.
5.       Although economic development will be difficult in the short and
medium term, Mali has economic potential that can be developed over the long
term. Malian farmers are among the most proficient in West Africa.  Rainfed
maize production could be significantly expanded in the south. Mali has more
irrigated rice land than any other Saholian country, as well as the largest
physical scope for expanding irrigation. Hydroelectric generating potential
on the Niger and Senegal rivers is significant. Although mineral resources
remain largely unexplored and unexploited (except for gold), they may offer
longer-term opportunities.
Economic Performance 1960-82
6.       The Malian Government has attempted since independence to promote
economic growth while trying to improve social equity and raise consumption
from very low levels. During 1960-82, annual growth of GNP per capita
averaged 1.1 percent in constant prices, although annual variations were large.
The economic structure has shifted as the agricultural sector has become less
important while the services sector has become more so.  Although this tend-
ency is normal for developing economies, in Mali it also reflects the effect
of policies that have shifted resources to the urban sector and to public
consumption. At the same time, the industrial sector has stagnated despite
government efforts to create a modern industrial base.  Because of drought and
declining terms of trade, as well as continuing mistakes in economic manage-
ment and poor allocation of public resources, there have been since indepen-
dence consistently large and worsening imbalances in public finances and on
foreign accounts, with declining domestic savings and growing foreign indebt-
edness. While economic and social objectives have been partially achieved,
the process has led to severe financial and economic disequilibria that have
been sustained only by dependence on foreign borrowing and the accumulation of
arrears.
7.       Mali's economic history can be divided into four periods (1960-67,
967-74, 1974-80, and 1980-82) based roughly on changes in economic and poli-
tical conditions. The changes in economic and financial structure during
these four periods are indicated in the following tabulation.  These figures
(as well as the economic indicators in Annex I) illustrate some of the major
trends in the Malian economy.



- 3 -
1960    1967    1974    1980    1982 (est)
GDP (US$ millions, current)            273     241     414   1,325   1,028
Agriculture (percent GDP)            55      50      35       42      43
Industry (percent GDP)               10      13      16       10      10
Services (percent GDP)               35      37      49       48      47
Terms of trade iadex                   100      73       58      64      57
Gross domestic savings (percent GDP)  9.5      1.3   -19.2    -3.6    -2.7
Budget deficit (percent GDP)            ..     5.3     3.5      4.0     1.5
Resource gap (percent GDP)              -4     _16      -33     -20     -20
Net foreign assets (US$ millions)        2 1/  -56    -139    -279    -235
Long-term foreign debt (US$ millions)  2. 269          441      853   1,260
Constant GNP growth rate
(percent p.a.) 2/                     ..     3.4     2.5     8.2      0.4
8.       Post-independence, 1960-67. The first post-colonial government
undertook a major program of modernization that included an independent mone-
tary system, an ambitious five-year development plan, a program of industria-
lization based on state enterprises, and a welfare orientation intended to
keep prices down and to assure consumers an adequate supply of basic commodi-
ties. During this period, GDP growth was high in part because of favorable
climatic conditions, but public pricing and investment policies created finan-
cial imbalances that could not be sustained. Government budgetary deficits
often exceeded 5 percent of GDP. By 1967 the resource gap had quadrupled (as
a percent of GDP), net foreign assets had turned negative, and the debt
service ratio had risen to 19 percent.  The economic crisis led to the signa-
ture of monetary accords with France in early 1967, followed by a 50 percent
devaluation in mid-1967 and reintegration with the franc zone in early 1968.
At that time, the French Treasury opened an Operations Account for Mali to
provide overdraft facilities to support the convertibility of the Nali franc.
9.       Economic Reform, the Sahelian Droaght, and the Energy Crisis,
1967-74. In late 1968, a new government launched an ambitious but pragmatic
reform program that proposed to increase official commodity prices and liber-
alize private trade--especially in cereals.  Bu' the shock of the severe
Sahelian drought (1968-73), followed by a quintupling of petroleum prices
during 1972-74, caused economic performance during 1967-74 to be poor, leading
to a decline in the primary sectuor output and real per capita income. These
shocks also prevented the new government from carrying out reforms, and
economic policies remained inadequate. For example, low official prices and
restrictive marketing regulations discouraged agricultural produc'ion and led
to increased food imports. Recourse to bank credit to finance the mounting
losses of state enterprises led to increased external debt. By 1974, the
economic imbalances--already large 7 years earlier--had either deteriorated
1/   1962.
2/   Ra'e is for the period that preceeds the year under which the figure
is given.



-4-
or not inproved. Domestic dissaving was greater, net foreign assets had
fallen by over 100 percent, and public external debt more than doubled. The
resource gap was also larger although this reflects partly the large inflow of
foreign aid to sustain consumption after the 1968-73 drought.
10.      Uneven recovery, 1974-80.  Compared to the drought years, the sub-
sequent period was favored by generally better weather and more foreign aid.
There was more rapid growth of GDP, led by agriculture recovering from the
drought. But the severe-disequilibria in public finances and external
accounts inherited from earlier periods were not corrected. Inflation
increased. Domestic dissavings and the resource gap remaiaed high. The need
to finaace increasingly large Government Treasury deficits and growing losses
in state enterprises caused short-term foreign liabilities to double.  Bor-
rowings to finance the 1974-78 Development Plan caused external long-term
public debt to double as well. Despite a few abortive efforts late in the
period, the Goverment did not develop and carry out reforms. Continuing
external shocks, like a second jump in petroleum prices, hampered r'3form
efforts, but the availability of substantial foreign resources also made the
imbalances more manageable and relieved some of the pressures to change
policies.
11.      New orientations, 1980-82.  Faced with both worsening financial
disequilibria and a more restrictive central bank credit policy, the Nalian
Government at the end of 1980 requested technical and financial assistance
from both the Bank and the IMF to help it formulate and carry out a program of
economic reform and adjustment. IDA responded to this request with a USS10.4
million Economic Management and Training project (Credit No. 1307-MLI). The
first assistance was in the field by mid-1981 under Project Preparation
Facility financing, and the project was approved in December 1982. The IMF
prepared a one-year Standby Program, which was approved for SDR 30.4 million
in May 1982, and a second, 18-month Standby Program is under negotiation.  In
conjunction with this assistance, the Government has carried out numerous
reforms in the areas of public finances, government employment, education,
agriculture, and state enterprises.
12.      In public finances, Governmen' has more than halved the budget
deficit, while also significantly reducing arrears, by increasing receipts
faster than expenditures.  Regarding public employment, Government has reduced
recruitments and stopped automatic hiring of graduates. The education budget
has been reallocated in favor of basic education. In agriculture, Government
has both liberalized markets for coarse grains and groundnuts and substan-
tially increased official producer prices. Distortions in retail grains
marke's have been reduced, as have the financial losses of the state marketing
board. The record for state enterprises is less positive, in part because of
difficulties in reducing excess employment, but the Government is exploring
major restructuring options.
Development Policies
13.      1981-85 Development Plan.  This Plan continues to give priority: to
water development for the rural population, livestock, and irrigation; to
agricultural and livestock production for achieving food self-sufficiency, for



supplying an expanded agro-industrial sector, and for increasing commodity
exports; to energy development; and to conservation of nahural resources--
especially forests and pastures. More importantly, the new Plan emphasizes
for the first time the need for policy reforms to re-establish fundamental
financial and economic equilibria, notably by balancing the government budget,
reducing the balance of payments deficit, reducing the losses of the state
enterprises, reorienting education, controlling recruitment for the Civil
Service, and increasing local private participation in investments. Develop-
ment expenditures proposed by the new Plan are estimated at US$2.2 billion of
which US$1.7 billion would be required during the five-year planning period.
Foreign sources will be expected to provide over 85 percent of the financing.
At the end of 1982, the Government hosted, with UNDP assistance, a Donors
Roundtable Conference to solicit firm donor commitments for Plan financing.
Although unsuccessful as a pledging session, the Conference gave the Govern-
ment a forum to demonstrate its new receptivity to greater aid coordination
and to reiterate its request for non-incremental recurrent cost financing,
estimated at about US$300 million per year to help support policy reforms.
14.      Although the stated objectives of the Plan focus fairly well on the
major constraints to economic development in Mali, the link between investment
and objectives is weak. The document is essentially a cataloging of projects
rather than allocation plan for scarce domestic and foreign resources. As a
result, planned investments often appear to be too capital-intensive, unduly
focused on the secondary sector, and oriented towards new projects rather than
rehabilitation of existing assets. The Plan is also overly ambitious; the
implied annual investment level is about 50 percent greater than the planned
level for the 1974-80 period, which was itself only half realized. Implemen-
tation already appears to be far behind schedule.  As in the past, the poor
performance and delays are caused by insufficient project preparation, poor
project management, inadequate Government counterpart financing, and poor
supporting policies, as well as unrealistic expectations. These problems are
likely to persist, although the Government is increasingly open to a dialogue
with IDA and the IMF on improved resource allocation and investment budgeting.
15.      Foreign Aid.  Foreign aid finances practically all public investment
in Mali and is therefore critical for promoting future growth. More than half
of this aid is in the form of grants, and almost all the rest is loaned on
highly concessional terms by official aid agencies. Multilateral agencies
provide about two-fifths of long-term loans. IDA is by far the largest multi-
lateral lender, accounting for over half the multilateral loans and for
19 percent of total debt committed and outstanding at the end of 1982. Long-
term external public debt (about three-fourths of which is disbursed) has
increased substantially over the last 10 years, although debt levels per
capita and as a share of GDP have declined, reflecting the increase in offi-
cial grant aid and continued recourse to short-term liabilities drawn on the
Operations Account. Actual debt service payments on long-term debt have been
quite modest in the past, and in 1980-81 the debt-service ratio was lower than
in the late 1960s and the early 1970s.  The debt-service ratio could rise
significantly in the mid to late 1980s, but the Government is in the process
of rescheduling several loans. It is expected that this and other measures
(converting loans to grants and obtaining special balance of payment
financing) will keep the debt-service ratio within manageable proportions-



-6-
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
16.      The proposed credit would be the Association's thirty-first credit
extended to Mali (including two supplementary credits), which would bring
total commitments of IDA funds to $308.9 million equivalent. Of the thirty
operations already approved, eleven have been for agriculture and related
industries, eight for transport, two for education, two for telecommunica-
tions, two for energy, one each for small-scale industries, urban development,
power and water supply, techa-ical assistance and rural water supply. Agricul-
ture and transportation repreasent the largest share of past commitments, with,
respectively, 36 and 27 percent of total commitments. The experience with
ongoing operations has been mixed.  In general, project implementation has
been hampered by Mali's difficult public finance situation, although the
disbursement profile through 1982 for Mali is slightly more rapid than for
both the West Africa Region and all IDA countries. In addition, the Interna-
tionaI Finance Corporation has made two investments for a total of $3.2
million equivalent, one in a company manufacturing bleach and plastic
products, and the other in a company processing sheanut butter for export.
The status of IDA credits and IFC investments is given Annex II.
17.      The Bank Group's strategy in Mali is governed by the constraints and
potentials set out ic Part I. The principal objectives of Bank Group assis-
tance are to help improve the country's economic policies, to finance produc-
tive investments, and to help develop institutions to implement policies and
projects effectively. The scope and pace of IDA's program depends on an on-
going assessment of the country's economic management, particularly upon the
willingness and ability of the Goverament to address policy issues and
undertake reforms where they are needed.
18.      In response to the changed policy climate over the past two years, we
are devising a flexible program of financial and technical assistance. While
our interventions will continue to be in the form of individual projects, they
will increasingly help promote reform in support of the Government's efforts.
Already, an economic management and training project, begun last year,
provides institutional support and detailed policy analysis on which long-term
structural reform can be based. The future lending program includes invest-
ment projects in the rural sector, in general and social infrastructure
(transport, power, water supply, health, education) that directly address
policy and institutional issues--agricultural pricing and marketing, public
enterprise reform and public employment policies. Where possible, projects
will be closely related, as is the case with the proposed project and a Rural
Water Supply Project--both cover the same general region and both support each
others' activities.



- 7 -
PART III - THE HEALTH SECTOR
Backgr.'und
19.      Mali's impoverishment is reflected in the ill health of its people.
Average life expectancy at birth is 45 years; in western Mali, the proposed
project zone, it is 33 years, among the lowe.t in the world. Infant mortality
is as high as 255 per 1,000 live births in some rural areas, compared with 152
nationally.  Several blinding disorders exist, the blindness rate reaching
more than 10 percent in certain villages. As elsewhere in the world, poor
ip        maternal and child health are associated with high fertility.  Family planning
services have been established for health, not demographic purposes. Assuming
little or no decline in fertility, Mali.'s population is projected to increase
from 7.1 million in mid-1982 to 12 million by the year 2000. This projection
makes it urgent to begin to set up a functioning network of basic health
services capable, in the not too distant future, of providing effective
maternal and child health and family planning services.
The Health Sector
20.      Health services are organized to conform to the territorial sub-
divisions of Mali, with a hospital in each of the seven regions. Tlhe regions
are divided into 46 districts, each with a health center, 281 subdistricts,
each with a health subcenter, and about 10,000 villages, many of which in the
southern region have village health associations. Most services above the
village level are operated by the Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs
(MOPHSA). Urban hospital utilization is unnecessarily high and costly;
patients bypass lower level facilities because they are often unable to pro-
vide even a basic level of care. There is also a growing disequilibrium
between the salary requirements of health workers and funds available for
materials and logistics. Many district level facilities are at least 30 years
old; equipment and laboratory facilities and drug supplies are virtually
nonexistent, making proper diagnosis and treatment unlikely. Since urban
hospitals are accessible to only a small portion of the population, effective
health service coverage of the population reaches a maximum of 15 - 20 percent
across the country, and is as low as 5 percent in the western region which
comprises the project zone.
21.      To improve coverage, the Government has promoted ..Llage level
primary health care programs and demonstration projects whose results have
been taken into account in designing the proposed project. Evaluations of
these programs indicate a need to ensure adequate logistical, technical and
supervisory support at the district and subdistrict levels; to reemphasize the
preventive aspects of primary health care; and to increase reliance on
available local resources, such as literacy and agricultural extension
workers, as legitimate carriers of health information.



22.      Notwithstanding the necessity of st5rong, decentralized district and
village level programs, the success of primary health care in Mali depends
also on achieving significant imprcvements at 'the national level.  First,
there is an urgent need for appropriately trained health manpower.  Second,
drug supplies, prices and consumption patterns need to be more in accordance
with primary health care requirements.  Third, the Governient needs a
strengthened health sector planning capability, with special emphasis on ade-
quate financiag of recurrent cost.  Fourth, the goals of improving the health
status will be all the more difficult to reach unless the problems of rapid
population growth are addressed.  Thus, there i3 an urgent need to integrate
demographic variables into development planning. A unit in the Ministry of
Plan has recently been established to study the impact of population growth on
development.
23.      With respect to health manpower, the focus of health training at all
professional schools is on curative health care services; students are ill-
prepared 'o address the problems of the rural population.  Public health
accounts for only 10 percent of the nursing school curriculum.  Students need
to receive practical training undpr field conditions.  Because of poor working
conditions in the countryside, many MOPHSA health workers need to upgrade
their skills in line with primary health care program requirements. The
Government is attempting to institutionalize inservice training and to make
reforms in the basic curricula of medical and paramedical training schools.
24.      Whereas NOPHSA has been responsible for providing drugs free of
charge to patients using public health facilities, the parastatal Pharmacie
Populaire du Mali (PPM) has been the major commercial supplier.  The PPY is
one of the few profit-making parastatals in Mali.  But its prices are gener-
ally higher than they need be due 'o procurement from a few suppliers who are
williLg to provide ez;ended lines of credit, albeit at high cost.  Sales are
still largely concentrated in the capital.  Assistance is needed to improve
its procurement, relavestment planning and distribution networe. By contrast,
due in part to steadily deteriorating public finances and weak management and
logistics, MOPESA's free drug distribution to public health facilities has
been on the verge of collapse. Aware that neither MOPHSA nor the PPX were
meeting the drug supply requirements of the national primary health care
program, the Government undertook a s'udy of the pharmaceutical sector in the
process of preparing the proposed project.  This study was cofinanced by -the
Mali Government, the European Development Fund (FED), the French Fonds d'Aide
et de Cooperation, USAID, and IDA (under a PPF advance). Key policy changes
and a restructuring of the pharmaceutical system were adopted in an attempt to
improve supplies and reduce the cost of essential drugs to the consumer.
These changes include limiting MOPHSA's role L'o that of coordinating national
pharmaceutical policy and controlling prescription practices; authorizing the
PPM to supply bot$h the public health and commercial networks; setting up a
revolving fund to procure drugs; and adopting a limited listb of about 200
essential drugs for MOPHSA facilities.
The Bank Group's Role in the Sector
25.      The Bank Group's involvement in the health sector has included health
components to support vi-llage health activities in the Mali Sud Projects I and



- 9 -
II, and the Mali Livestock Project as well as support to the regional oncho-
cerciasis control program executed by the World Health Organization (WHO).
While encouraging these activities, the Government nonetheless has sought to
widen Bank involvement in the sector through a request for a free-standing
health project. A concurrent request for Bank support of a rural water supply
project in the same geographic area reinforced the Government's advocacy for
combining mutua'ly-reinforcing water and health actions such as relating
preventive health education to the hygienic use of water to reduce the
incidence of waterborne parasites and diseases. While supporting this
strategy where ever feasible and justifiable, the Bank's long-term objectives
are to continue to seek improvements in investment decision-making and finan-
r          cial planning, the production of qualified manpower, improvement in drug
pricing and procurement, and the strengthening of maternal and child health,
family planning and basic health services at the community level.
26.      During the past six years, the donor community has also supported
Mali's primary health care, maternal and child health and family planning
programs. International assistance has been provided by UNICEF, WHO, *the
United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UFPPA) and the FED. Bilateral
support has come mainly from Switzerland, France, U.S.A., Saudi A-rabia, Italy,
China and the U.S.S.R. While this foreign assistance has generally supported
the Government's sector objectives, inadequate coordination among donors in
designing and implementing projects has resalted in an uneven distribution of
health care and in heterogeneous health equipment, facilities, and standards.
Moreover due to the limited coverage of these small and scattered projects,
their impact on the country's health sector policies has been negligible. In
contrast, the proposed IDA project, designed to address major sector issues
such as health planning, manpower development and drug availability, and to
develop a basic framework for extending health services elsewhere in Nali,
-would provide a forum for an in-depth and long-term dialogue. in recognition
ofgthe need to include all donors in this dialogue and the need to improve the
currently weak coordination, the Government, under the proposed project,
intends to create a high-level coordinating unit in MOPHSA which would also
help ensure the necessary coordination of foreign assistance in extending
adequate health coverage nationwide.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Background
27.      Following a preparation mission in 1980, Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) advances totalling Sl million equivalent were approved in July 1980,
March 1982 and March 1983 to establish a NOPHSA planning unit, recruit consul-
tants, undertake surveys, study the pharmaceutical sector, and carry out
design and start-up work for the construction of physical facilities. The
project was appraised in October 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington
in October 1983, with a Malian delegation led by the Minister of Public Health
and Social Affairs. A credit and project summary appears at the beginning of
this report, and a supplementary project data sheet is given in Annex III.
The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4465-MLI), dated November 15, 1983, is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.



- 10 -
Project Objectives and Description
28.      The proposed project -ould complement current and proposed activi'tles
at the national and regional levels being undertaken chiefly by China and the
FED (with respect to drug supplies); UNICEF, UIRIFPA, Switzerland, rDA and USAID
(primary health care, maternal and child health and family planning); and the
FED (improvement of the basic network of health services in tWo of the seven
distric-.s of western Mali).  In the project area, there would be close
collaboration with ODIPAC, an IDA-assisted rural development operation, and
with the proposed rural water supply project.
29.      Specifically, the project ;would at the national level:  (a) improve
the training of health manpower; (b) improve the availability and utilization
of basic drugs; and (c) strengthen MOPHSA's capabilities in planning and
cooriination.  In three districts of western Mali the project would:
(a) strengthen the existing public health network in accordance with primary
health care objectives; and (b) develop health education, water hygiene and
related Drimary health care activities at the village level.
Part A:  1ational Level
30.      Manpower Develooment.  The project -would strengthen basic and
inservice training in public health. Improved basic training would be pro-
v-ded annually to all graduates--about 50 students of medicine, pharmacy and
dentistry, 180 students of nursing, midwifery and allied technical fields, and
25 students in community development.  Thirty-four man-months of public health
technical assistance, materials and operating costs are provided in support of
basic training. Field training would be provided to final year students.
National inservice training would be provided for personnel working in rural
areas, together with about 18 short-term fellowships for trainers.
31.      Drug Supply and Utilization.  To improve the supply and utilizatiDn
of basic drugs throughout Mali, the project would assist the PPM in supplying
both the commercial sector and MOPHSA facilities more efficiently and at lower
cost.  For these purposes, the project would provide two man-years of techni-
cal assistance to the PPM in procurement, accounting and stock management.  To
give time to the PPM to diversify its procurement and to pay suppliers
promptly, thereby reducing sales prices, the project would provide an initial
stock of drugs, the sale of which would be used to constitute a PPM revolving
fund (Pharmaceutical Account). Completion of an initial audit of the PPMI's
accounts and the selection of technical assistance would be a condition of
disbursement of that portion of the IDA Credit allocated for the purchase of
drugs for the PPM (Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)).  The
Government would take measures to improve the operations of the PPM including
the opening, not later than June 30, 1984, and maintenance of a Pharmaceutical
Account; would furnish and implement, not later than December 31, 1984 and
March 31, 1985, respectively, a plan of action for strengthening the manage-
ment of the PPM; and woluld prepare and start implementing, not later than
December 31, 1984 and December 31, 1985, respectively, a five-year PPM
investment plan (DCA, Sections 3.08 and 4.04).



- 11 -
32.      The project would also provide office facilities, materials, vehicles
and about 14 man-months of technical assistance in planning to hel7 2O?HSA -
strengthen its pharmaceutical plAnning and control services, org-anize nublic
information on drug prescription and consumption, and publish an essential
drug list and treatment manual.  K4OPHSA would need, no later than June 30,
1984, to amend the terms of reference of its inspectorate of Public Health and
Social Affairs in order to include additional responsibility for these
pharmaceutical activities (DCA, Secticn 3.03).  By December 31, 1984, I4GPHSA
would also adopt an essential drug list, drug formulary and standardized
treatment manual.  MOPHSA would also present to the Association for its review
and comments the study on the effectiveness of the reform of the pharmaceuti-
ca.± sector, to be followed by similar studies and reviews no later than
December 31 of each year thereafter (DCA, Section 4.03).
33.      Strengthening i'OPHSA.  E1OPHSA needs continuing support in its attempt
to develop a stronger capabilitv in health planning, project implementation
and coordination, and community health education.  The project would therefore
provide consultant services to MOPHISA's Directorate of Planning and Trainng
(DNPFSS) for preinvestment studies with a view toward inter alia:  (a) prepar-
ing proposals for further improvements in health planning; (b) preparing a
cost and feasibility analysis of a nationvide primary health care program;
Cc) designing outreach programs and projects for strengthening health pro-
grams, including family planning; and (d) developing a long-term national
1OPHSA inservice training program. To these ends, the Government would:
assign a local statistician, a health planner, a training specialist and an
evaluation specialist no later than December 31, 1984, to undertake these
activities; furnish specific proposals by December 31, 1987; and take steps
thereafter to implement these proposals (DCA, Sections 3.05 and 3.06). The
proJect -would also provide eight man-months of technical assistance w-ith a
view toward improving recurrent budget forecasting of t(OPHSA. To improve the
availability of qualified personnel, 13 fellowships would be provided in plan-
ning, evaluation, statistics, and computer pr3gramming, together with 10
short-term fellowships in health economics for existing IOPHSA administrative
personnel.
34.      To strengthen project coordination activities within MOPHSA, a
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) is being established with PPF financing.  The
PCU would be strengthened for The purpose of implementing the proposed project
(para. 51). In support of health education services, the project would pro-
vide three man-months of technical assistance to ROPHSA's Health Education
Division. A small facility, equipment and reading materials would be provided
to strengthen the existing NOPHSA Documentation Unit.
35.      Cost Recovery.  Recognizing the country's financial constraints and
the improbability of increasing the share of budget resources devoted to
recurrent health budget, the Government has taken several steps designed to
increase the availability of funds for recurrent costs in support of primary
health care. These would include experimenting with schemes to promote cost
recovery by charging for hospitalization, deliveries, x-rays, laboratory
examinations and drugs in the proposed project area. A portion of the
receipts would be retained by the hospitals and health centers to purchase
drugs and to assist with infrastructure and equipment maintenance. These



- 12 -
initial erperiences with improved cost recovery would be monitored and
evaluated under the project with a view to extending appropriate cost recovery
mechanism to other parts of the country.  If successful, such cost recovery
mechanisms would gradually be Introduced in all parts of the country.
Part B: Western Regional Level
36.      Development of Primary Health Care.  The Government selected the
districts of Kita, Bafoulabe and Kenieba (total population 465,000) in the
western region of Mali for the development of a primary health care system.
They were selected because the health status of the population and the avail-
abili_y of health services are the poorest in the country.  Infant mortality
is 225/1000 as compared with 152/1000 nationally.  LiFe expectancy is 33                9
years, twelve years less than the national average.  The project would upgrade
the network of district health centers and subeenters, retrain existing para-
medical personnel attached to these facilities, and promote primary health
care, community health education and the hygienic use of water at the village
level.
37.      The project is designed tD provide an integrated program of health
ser.Ices targeted at malaria, diarrhea, respiratory infections, vaccination of
children, pregnancy and family planning, tuberculosis, leprosy, malnutrition,
blindness and conjunctivitis which constitute Mali's major health priorities.
These services would be provided first at three existing district health
centers in the project area, followed by the subdistrict centers, thereby
assuring a credible technical and supervisory capability prior to promoting
outreach services to surrounding villages. Thereafter, primary health care
and health education services would be extended to 112 villages within reason-
able access to health centers and subcenters. About 186 NOPHSA perscnnel who
currently provide services in the project zone would be retrained in order to
carry out the health programs as designed. The project would provide mater-
ials, travel allowances and per d-ems for inservice training, together with an
initial stock of drugs, equipment and incremental operating costs required for
the -:ovision of health care.
38.      Construction and Equipment of Health Facilities.  Because existing
health facilities in the project zone are ill-equipped, run-down and inappro-
priately designed, the project would construct and equip three replacement
district health centers.  In addition, 18 replacement and 3 renovated health
subcenters would be provided. In line with the objective of promoting low
cost construction (paras. 46, 52, 53), the Government has opted to use
stabilized earth brick construction, employing locally available materials and
labor. The relatively heavy thermal mass of this construction offers good
protection against high daytime temperatures encountered in the project zone,
a feature that is important for health facilities.  To ensure reliable water
supplies, tubewells would be installed at each site through the proposed rural
water supply project. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances
that a permanent water supply would be available at each site. For the
efficient operation of health facilities, the Government would maintain
adequate staffing of all project health centers, and ensure adequate
maintenance of buildings, furniture and equipment provided by the project
(DCA, Section 4.02).



- 13 -
39.      Village-Level Health.  The proposed village-level outreach program
would build on previous demonstration projects by providing training of tradi-
tional birth attendants in monitoring pregnancies, referral of risk cases,
deliveries, family planning information, nutrition demonstrations and malaria
prevention. Where there are active village health associations interested in
selecting and supporting village health workers, or in undertaking small,
innovative health ana nutrition related activities, the project would support
training of such workers and provide the initial capital required for innova-
tive activities. Training of birth attendants and village health workers
would be provided at health centers and subcenters.
40.      The project would introduce preventive health education into the
teaching program of local functional literacy centers which have already been
established in the project area with IDA support through the Groundnut and
Food Operation and its successor ODIPAC (Office of Integrated Development for
Groundnut and Cereal Production) projects. The project would provide eight
man-months of advisory services in health education to assist in the prepara-
tion and evaluation of health-related literacy materials, together with teach-
ing materials for literacy program field staff.  The project would provide
inservice training, incremental salaries and allowances For literacy program
field staff, vehicles, radios, travel allowances and operating costs.
41.      Monitoring, Research and Evaluation.  The project would improve
MOPHSA's evaluation capability first in the project area by developing a
reporting system based on operational data on locations and numbers of popula-
tion served, ser-ices delivered, drug consumption and disease incidence.  Five
man-months of technical assistance in evaluation would be provided to assist
in designing and implementing the system. A microcomputer would be provided
to the DNPFSS for data s-orage and nnalysis on the assumption that the system
would gradually be expanded to other regions of the country. Four man-months
of specialist assistance would be provided to set up the computer system.
Sixteen man-months of technical assistance and related operating costs would
be provided to assist the HOPHSA to conduct primary health care research and
to undertake midterm and final project evaluation.
Project Costs and Financing
42.      Total project costs are estimated at $17.6 million equivalent,
excluding local taxes and import duties from which the project would be
exempt. These costs include 197 man-months cf technical assistance and
advisory services at an average cost per manmonth of $10,000 equivalent for
expatriate consultant services. Foreign costs are estimated at $8.6 million
equivalent (about 49 percent). Base costs are in October 1983 prices. Price
contingencies have been applied to foreign costs as follows: 1983 - 8
percent; 1984 - 7.5 percent; 1985 - 7 percent; 1986-88 - 6 percent. For local
construction costs: 1983 - 15 percent; 1984 - 12 percent; 1985 - 10 percent;
1986-89 - 10 percent. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been added to
the base cost for civil works, equipment and architectural services.
43.      Cost estimates of civil works for health facilities are based upon
simple but functional designs prepared by MOPHSA for cement stabilized pressed
earth brick construction, a low-cost construction method that maximizes the
use of available local resources (paras. 46, 52, 53).



- 14 -
44.      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 15.9 million ($16.7 million equiva-
lent) would finance the foreign exchange component and about 90 percent of
local costs, representing about 95 percent of total project costs net of
taxes. The Government would meet the remaining local costs of $0.9 million
equivalent. Incremental recurrent cost would be minimized because the project
is designed to improve the efficiency of existing health infrastructure and
personnel. Incremental recurrent costs due to the project are estimated at
only 2.5-4.0 percent of the projected 1989 national health budget and thus
they are considered sustainable and would permit replication of similar
approaches in other rural areas. During negotiations the Government provided
assurances that the funds required to sustain project activities after project
completion would be included in the national budget from the fiscal year
beginning January 1989 onward (DCA, Section 4.06). It should be noted,
however, that replications would be expected to be less costly in other more
developed rural areas which have already benefited from investments in the
health sector.
Procurement and Disbursements
45.      Contracts of equipment, furniture, materials and vehicles totalling
US$1.3 million equivalent including contingencies. would be procured inter-
nationally following international competitive bidding procedures (ICB) in
accordance with IDA's guidelines for procurement. Purchases of medical
equipment and drugs using UNICEF's international procurement procedures wculd
be permitted where feasible as a recognized means of limiting costs.
Otherwise, drugs would be procured through ICB, except where there is only one
existing supplier. In such instances, drugs may be purchased directly from
such supplier& with prior agreement from the Association. Contracts for
furniture, equipment, materials and vehicles costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each (total value including contingencies US$250,000 equivalent,)
would be awarded following competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts for minor construc-
tion works (including upgrading of three existing health centers) estimated to
cost less than US$60,000 equivalent each (total value US$200,000 equivalent),
would be awarded following local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
IDA.
46.      International and local competitive bidding procedures are not con-
sidered appropriate for the construction of remaining health center facilities
estimated to cost US$6.5 milLion equivalent, including contingencies. The
project area would normally -equire force accouit procedures because access is
difficult, and most facilities are small (700 m ) and scattered over a wide
area. Instead, for both the design and construction of project facilities,
the Government has decided to employ the services of the Association for the
Development of Traditional Af:rican Urbanism and Architecture (ADAUA). As a
non-profit, international architectural/engineering association (established
in Mali to manage, provide training and, in general, promote low-cost
stabilized earth construction), ADAUA is undertaking the first phase of a two-
phased contract with the Government for the design and construction of health
centers under the project. There are no other similarly established,
experienced groups readily available in Mali, and local contractors using
conventional building techniques would be unable to provide adequate training



- 15-
and management. ADAUA has successfully developed similar technology in
M{auritania and Upper Volta and has a proven ability to provide appropriate
construction at costs about 65 percent of those of conventional building
techniques.
47.      Architectural designs, negotiated construction procedures, draft
tender documents and master lists of furniture, equipment and vehicles would
be reviewed by IDA. This is expected to result in coverage of about 90
percent of the total estimated value of construction contracts and about 80
percent of goods contracts (Schedule 3 of the DCA).
48.      Because the Government is unable to pre-finance expenditures to be
reimbursed under the IDA Credit, an IDA-financed Special Account of $1.0
million equivalent would be established.  The opening of this account in the
Banque de Developpement du Mali is a condition of Credit effectiveness (DCA,
Section 5.01 (a)). The Government would also establish a local Project
Account for its own local revolving fund for counterpart financing. The
opening of this account and the initial deposit of FM 12.5 million ($17,000
equivalent) would be an additional condition of effectiveness (DCA, Section
5.01 (b)).
49.      Proceeds from the proposed Credit would be disbursed as follows:
(i)  100 percent of total expenditures for civil works ($5.5 million
equivalent); equipment, vehicles and materials ($1.7 million
equivalent); technical assistance, consulting services, fellowships,
and training ($3.6 million equivalent); training and materials under
the regional component of the project ($0.1 million equivalent);
studies and evaluations ($0.3 million equivalent); drugs under the
national component of the project ($1.9 million equivalent); initial
deposit in Special Account ($1.0 million equivalent); and refunding
of Project Preparation Facility Advance ($1.0 million equivalent);
and
(ii)  95 percent, initially, declining to 30 percent during the second half
of the project, of total expenditures for incremental operating
costs, including drugs for the project's regional component ($0.7
million equivalent).
An amount of $1.0 million equivalent would be unallocated. The estimated
schedule of disbursements shown in the Credit and Project Summary of this
report is based on the disbursement profile for Mali (seven years).
Accounts and Audits
50.      The project provides for services of independent accoUntants to audit
the Special Account, Project Account, Pharmaceutical Account and all other
accounts in respect of the Project for each fiscal year; audited statements
would be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year (DCA, Section 4.01 (c)).



- 16 -
Organization and Management
51.      The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) (para. 34) would coordinate
project implementation. It would monitor project costs and expenditure, keep
project accounts, and authorize all project expenditures. The appointment of
a consultant to help set up and implement an appropriate project accounting
system is a condition of credit effectiveness (DCA, Section 5.01 (e)). Key
staff of the PCU indlude a director, deputy director, project administrator
and an accountant. Regarding the implementation of the regional components, a
district level Local Project Coordinating Unit (LPCU) would be created under
the PCU. The3 LPCU would be staffed by the deputy director of the PCU, a full-
time coordinL-tor of village health and water education programs working
closely with ODIPAC, an office administrator and an accountant. The estab-
lishment of the PCU and LPCU, including the appointment of key staff, is a
condition of credit effectiveness (DCA, Section 5.01 (c) and (d)).
52.      Construction Program.  To permit a maximum degree of readiness for
construction prior to Credit effectiveness, ADAUA consultants haQe been hired
through the PPF advance to prepare standardized designs, undertake site sur-
veys and soils testing, train site supervisors and masons, and provide equip-
ment for such training. Skilled masons from the western region have been
selected for training starting December 1983, and will form the nucleus of a
total of 18 construction teams directly responsible to ADAUA.
53.      The appointment of ADAUA on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA to
undertake the construction phase is a condition of credit effectiveness (DCA,
Section 5.01 (f)). The Ministry of Transportation and Public works would have
overview responsibility for verifying construction progress and for certifying
ADAUA's payment requests. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that it would assign, not later than December 31, 1984, a suitably
qualified architect or engineer to expedite this work, to prepare plans for
minor upgrading work at three existing health centers, and to coordinate the
site selection process (DCA, Section 3.07 (b)).
54.      Technical Assistance.  In addition to available Malian expertise, the
project would prGvide 191 man-months for advisory services to be utilized as
follows: for manpower development, 34 man-months; for assistance to the
pharmaceutical sector, 38 man-months; in health planning, 12 man-months; for
assistance to the project coordinating unit, 23 man-months; health education
services, 3 man-months; improvement of health services delivery and primary
health care development on the regional level, 48 man-months; health-related
literacy materials, 8 man-months; and, research and evaluation, 25 man-
months. The average man-month cost for foreign experts and consultants is
estimated to be about US$10,000, which includes salaries and benefits, costs,
fees, international travel and local subsistence expenses.
Project Benefits and Risks
55.      The proposed project wiould support the Government's attempt to
improve existing system while developing primary health care at the village
level, thus providing benefits at both the western region and national
levels. In western Mali, the project would:



- 17 -
(a) provide direct health care coverage and reduce the high prevalence of
morbidity and mortality of major prevailing diseases for the more
than 200,000 people living within 10 km. of proposed health
facilities. An additional 250,000 people living beyond a 10 km.
radius of proposed health facilities would have improved access to
health care;
(b) encourage quality health staff to work and remain in the region
through the provision of equipment, materials and stronger communi-
cation with higher levels of health care;
(c)  by strengthening the local health system, decrease high utilization
of urban hospitals, thus assuring more efficient use of each level of
health care and cost savings for the Malian Government as well as for
patients; and
(d)  arouse the population's awareness and commitment to improving their
own health through the provision of maternal and child health, family
planning and health education services.
56.      At the national level, the project would:
(a) provide wider availability of more appropriate drugs at lower cost
while improving drug prescription and consumption practices;
(b)  strengthen the Government's health planning capabilities thereby
enabling it to design, and implement and replicate other rural
primary health care projects more effectively; and
(c) improve the quality of rural health personnel by making initial as
well as inservice training more responsive to primary health care
needs.
57.      The project would also generate employment for artisans within the
western region. Most construction work teams are expected to remain together
after the completion of project facilities, and may be employed as required on
future construction projects of this nature as independent artisanal contrac-
tors.  The successful introduction of low-cost earth construction techniques
would offer an alternative to conventional construction technology in the
future.
58.      Two principal risks can be identified; these relate to recurrent
costs and management ability of the NOPHSA. First, although every effort was
made to design the project with the lowest possible incremental operating
cost, any service delivery component with outreach services will necessarily
imply additional costs. If the Government is unable to meet these costs, the
level of service will be less than optimal, and health benefits will be ad-
versely affected. This risk will be reduced by the introduction of cost
recovery for drugs, thus freeing resources for other operating costs and by
measures to improve the planning of health investments and attendant recurrent
costs. Secondly, MOPHSA's experience in the management of projects has been



- 18 -
fairly recent and untested in its ability to coordinate a large-scale develop-
ment project. Such a risk to this project has been reduced by the Govern-
ment's decision to use the project preparation process as a means of develop-
ing project planning and management capability. This capability would be
further strengthened through the Project Coordinating Unit at the national
level, and its regional implementation arm at the district level. Architectu-
ral work is advanced. An experienced non-governmental organization would be
hired to oversee construction. Similarly, technical assistance would be
provided to help coordinate difficult components related to curriculum reform,
management of drug supplies, and the delivery of primary health care services.
Technical assistance would be supervised in the context of IDA supervision
missions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.      The Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Mali and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed to Executive Directors separately.
60.      Special conditions of the project, including conditions of
effectiveness, are listed in Section III of Annex III.
61.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by
Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 15, 1983



W,4.1                                    (MEST COP   AVlll8L
-  WTIcLU                                        a 19      ,^S 1,
srCIN                 ,. bs> AFK;CA  s. UF S
AGiacutuLffF                             5.            W.U          9.                                                724.1
Gw  nm Got"¢l  2C                                     . 4440U                         79b  5 
VOrA-fOI1 ;W   tv  SYttUUuqs )            4?7          4527           5U792                                               .
r 15-AbaaE XS                            53M  7           7          2.-.
UK Wj  uUAL                                5.          4.               449.9                                          I
?Ao sl e to                                                 4  24.,63 23w4 1 2       
f                D"To  )w ;W                                                                                            95.7)  1
VWLTIOP7lD Is             °L                                                               51                        .5t7°
0-t341,gSi POP  iL,3KE                                           44b                  4b45115
vea st-V  t                                                     5.4 9r    947 t;.           5                            ,l01e
(X 0f POFULAn)                                63 o                              Z1.9.2  20.
t=^L sq  gm                                                              **12U.6
,A:M"                               b4130. k.&b                               45 U23.t35.                          19Z
ts1prpE PAsliu sq:,0r   2 4°                                  .7                 52:       3e                          402 
pOp"T1                               yj7          t' t9'3S , 26.7
,gu                                                                   ..                           ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
to   1> ,w"  .At  .7 .j5 .1
CCeElA                              5. 4.7 FDWLl9S
TUTAI                                                         46.                  19. '
URUs                                           ,,6            14                   .
RUULE   110)                             35             .



BEST Copy AVAILABLE                                                    - 20 -
T A B L E  3A                                         PAGE 2
KALI                    - SCIA         A       
MALl                                   REPERENU CROUPS (WELGIITEO AVERAES  /a
HIUST                      (MOST gECEur ESTIMTE) lb
RECENT              LaW INCOME
960_                ESTIHATL-b    OFRIC  S. OF SAARA         AFRICA S. O.   SAKARA
EDUCAT1ON
ADJUSTED CNIULLElC r RATIoS
PRItARY:  TOTaL                     IO.u         23.o        2B.U/e              63.9                       97.Z
AALE                     14.o        30.U         35.077              73.6                      103.1
tLMALS                    e.O        16.0         2u.GoW             51.6                       85.5
SECUADiARY  rOTAL                    1.0          5.0         9.0/e              12.5                       17.Z
NALE                      1.0         5.0         13.07;             L1.7                        23.5
FEMALE                    0.3         2.U          S.oTh              8.1                        14.Z
VOCATIONAL (: OF SECONDARY)           14.6jj        9.8         9.0Di               7.3                        5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             45.U        40.U         41.0                46.4                       42.9
SkSCU.OARY                          17.U         15.0          ..                25.1                       23..
ADULT LITEKACY RATE (2)                2.2           ..        IO.U/c              36.5                       37.1
CONSUNTION
PASSENGER CANS/THOUSAIND POP           0.6          1.7         2.1/1               3.3                       18.8
RLWlO KFCEIVERS/THOUSAXU POP           2.0         l1.0        13.4                45.3                       97.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               ..           ..          ..                 2.2                       18.6
:.EUhPAPER ( DAILY gENERAL
LNTEKESTI) ClRCULATLON
PER mOUSANU POPULATLON                0.2         0.6k         ..                 4.7                       ld.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPlrT        1.9         0.57;         *-                 1.0                        U.6
LAfl   olc
TOVAL LALOR tORCd (TlOUS)           2324.U      2853.U       35d4.0
FESALE (PERCENT)                    48.1        47.Y         48.4                34.5                       36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               94.0        91.0         72.6                7b.9                       56.8
l.uOUST&V (PERCENTI)                 3.0         4.u         11.7                9.8                        17.5
PAATICLPATION KATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               51.5         55.3        52.1                40.9                       37.0
MALE                                bO.6         58.6        55.b                53.0                       47.1
FEMALE                              54.5        52.0         48.8                28.9                       27.0
ECDoOMIC UEPENDENCY RATIO              O.h         0.9          O.Y                 1.2                        1.3
TOE DISTRIUIT
PERCEtC OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 52 OF IIOUSEHOLDS             ..           ..
tHiCIEST 20  OF tlOUSEHOLOS           ..           ..
LOWEST 20  OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..
LOWEST 402 OF KOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..
POVE  TAR  CROPS
ESrIMATED ABSULUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US0 PER CAPITA)
URBLN                                 *                      98.0/c             165.9                      534.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..         0.U7               d7.4                     255.9
ESrTIATEo RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US0 PER CAPITA)
UB:                                   ..           ..        61.0/c             20U.8                      491.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..        37.07T              64.6                      I58.1
ESTIMATED PoP. BELCU ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOtE LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        27.0/1              39.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..        48.07;              69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOr APPLICABLE
N o T E S
/a  The group averages for eacb Indicator are populastinreighted arithmetic mans.  Coverage of countris among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not unIform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, -Data for 196D- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970- between  199 and
1971; and data for -Most Recent EsetLate" between 1979 and 1981.
lc  1977; /d 1976; /e 1978; /f 1962; j  Government personnel; /h Government hospital establishments; /1 1975; /5 Not
Including private vocational schools; Ik 1972; /1 19MB.
Hay 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 21-                                                                                     riJIL
PIFIN1TItNSN Itt INK.155 ItOulCOTSs
nit.,   aihesot Sb at,  rs dota  ea   s.tos oserst, iSS  th  gis  ststurtsttt iStilthit.Ii sush    lm.  i alSdlst.sip m   fit  he  atsrsslsstl
caSshl  ht.a  c  telah   t  trirdle  .ttltsaiSseps   ta)  y   ltisi  itslhs   li  alstt~    k  dss    tedos   n.diillllt.   uimeI
dotl _ssf _r at   thglti. iSh  lst.a.'   F trn .  r  ohuraIj   tis ciiittit   lfieu   hsssPettl
lbtiurn.Slt;  i.it  iw   .stiittl   rispi  heaihti  iasriiSU)                     iallp5ItI  iiStstftt   l0trstrgeEws.shngou.t.aii                               Ilu;  5  S
.ttJn  o.tt   (irtt  t.ditpi AItusi..A. . Oil tipoItu." sle   ..WAI. ihld rl latf.ru Nort  b515.   i   ldi   at   .  -..   ust.e   ilett.rt-tl
otuatie')r.-    I  thu            ohr.r   ari  dt   huslietae  ssistu   nbld oithsIr ti..P tar,-h  lsltu.I-. ih rna iitl   alg    sAllt-i  h  ris-t.  litOh
'reap hotdots ittshut Itiratit.   lit. thu t151555 s  citutris   stitj ls  iSdttsttli tisprii isa  ii. isslshlhls, it iltid  tC  Is al  tislisra.tIitiltadiint h
*SoIISsd  i  ltlsifl u etis     h1 _S qiat   ta'shr             hsuiisiisiayt ti_ It  rispoit l-                     s iss      Ai ttyltdrus   ltb-thmgit   ilar 
*71Th us  its  an.                                                                        iastslg~~l.  Tu      ....  -pt.tut,Lh.raa  Pisa-t aItlt ilildSM hI 1"ho  itt prstFsitl
A     rtr tsti-blut.s lelttiusaue   ipaalps  prsitT.asi   stl   rdiiisrst   utturstfs.pet.t  as   a
ito        .p.ara* oht "'"Ita  hItohi    nadti   t  ItiM -tiliti    trOD,                                 sttl stt.ts
aPi as   tin dots.                                                   Psitiss last qsrlktpiisi ~~~~~~~~11.4    - td. t.rftuld bs Atrl  -ittut           li
srha~tedrtrui  .tshsdS      "Ihi.isrleetai   ihpiiht
St                ildiiirih.us   rsuiitsitited   s Mst.  le. Sat  til-i   hirt-i tsh...ttAlsts.stra                                                          dnttlssiitsht-I_r.iiPst    ps.-stI.    tti
mr. ilt,u    ulit.hs    su ..t's..prual.Wlotils. thttutt  piitsaptet.l                                                                                                                    ii
aUsaM  CAPITA irtstw     - GNP pTS  -pisa. Isgrs    sttptqa   utti_ siolet.ste    itaalpssiih  *    _tplrs   (hIS hit 5 tiis
ltts   rytsli  tCIifhsisdl-  .i  qy  uI&2912sC11 Tlalit. sr  eepisIli  - AdIset sothIt1itb idsiotuot   rduhts
.d 4-  1.                                 P.,  .Pit.t                           :r_~~~~~~~~~~ie : ltItl 'Z ndId  hith  fB5   .  hdt
aisiu- usl-s.  w.   tug . as1q1   Ate                     I1116.       1Wfla.-MisusEA  lqsti  uTWtt.s  sit  eoin                                              id -AIis.Lol t rhqi sbi rtissl
!itt'f!!!iIltt-Ahutuuld rsit   fasgt   1tlisl    etu.lviuqslr
ihiiiSlW          iiirf:L-     Cira    apllt    lostt A) .        .It  hisi  uSt-ilt                            hl   attsa             A hurs  at  SutS   i   a   tth  s                  SI
t=titr.Poi-Sa MO seur. 117i0.e.  iepls   i  hreiers    eeo   ' -lit.                                                                    ist     ttiL         ise. m.d ru         I "itou   ituhit
I.t.t. iutiuti   Isis itpsllasly  it hurtS  ias~~rsaiiis wIth h .s.ry pIt                    Aitss   pu    -i   1    its    r    to   asloWstilts
Aier..  The ptitrtitI.far  orittlAp ratislut his. thMY Isrils                                          sasosplri  lsrta
utrttuAA   ti -ls   osasi.  Th. isf  -P.lias F sittp itirl  AitiSt  rules                              d    i..                                    -.     b-.Ibltt-.                     
dttiiai  ts19 the  ti   -ttisiLiisY        t.l tst       I.1   dPI ratrsslSttsa   dt                                      tilts..  ail  aid tissle       tsi  tssI.     al  td0.
ass siaissisitsit fliitiptost itait isastp.   tJutstttitprptiotlast t                                      alstssshpItn.               Ie. p -   plItlga t1iptstt
:1ttrtii  Wi At.    tsplel..1t L. trei. d-l    .            dI             .RWTstttaaItstiii  dttetos  ttlts   sit   tt   itu
-ststt is.. silt-hi n Thted.                                                                     tor.stdetrft.,  itt's.) - lt-totletstdtsl      eptd-sun    sed
gai,   st,itsaltods.oa Iiii Eisi.,) itii  (Itrr '.1 tiV                                                                                         odL- y, [-.Isot t  tatusast t.
54 pot.)  Id rate  .In          . nIt. ad  bs.)I asftosu    ttdya                                        ti t'tp -t  inparteitoP.It i  uridt   tutIlttssas..  bLr     tl,l
ppt tta   ls. ..ItmsI- 1.5  dub. y         2 . bdt        M.    . -.1P.." bsart tstht -   Ftir.   aS  utotdaht -.th    Tsta  .dr tisrsisyI
tuet ttaCot   aitIoIst-1..                   itu  gsth "sssPtt"uta.  ti--Ir                                  'It..5 isltadt  loubIs   tti   t aItAbOst..ot Ise it  It thust-
nut pipeetlss Is  ui)5-t0     ia-hi    Th. 191-ri h-'psIu  Is.eeti.  .                                                          ..          -t.w u               .-      o
taiue  ..rsi  ot   trrs--  fo --sstesthrt.  itis ht.tsat    fja    e5j-L Iri  Sliluti i   sd'dLttlS
Ct-d.bit,tos  es   psh bIttoa)-   spt ti4ath kit-theaus  if0  ld- -)e-t                               P-is ,e Cat.1it   hu,   e  sssiialis  -  tiaitetcr  tiprlutm sti
pupteta Lisa W. 5197. aid liSt  dos.trt.u.tt ls   tei  Its    Y_..I   W s . rtr: it.i5g                                                                                     *hsst 
A.ppr                                                                                                       P-Pt -Otat  tte  o   aittttsis   11htt  i stll tshtioo.                     A
Yi4iiiijSiii               WielS tO      " seOIttttS-  pri- s  545isitI iWAS                              tortutr Y     u  Sheediielsst       ittusc   astitiit  i
s  A "W.irtuAdIMst,stdt  istt-itd  I  nnsit..tui...                                                                                                                        Siitnt
rotI.-sets-aeetita    sslthuodt-ds    itrciaspeitu   s   iatcudi   i  ro.sut ygItsst-h   aith.                                                                                        a
I- Child--   40Is4rt-.srab(sit(IshiI-Id                                                                                       eo .he  li)      - IV  e      hlts I, to  hodae  top.d
si  srt.t'sss  I' as. .Ss Litr-ts.Istlr sit tie.Itit,ii:L                                                                                 Iaioi.ol-fs   thu.t   -rsItaA5t
roft'ib  tutlIbttltos-j                    t.O.                                  ..t.                       PI ttltttos   d.Itto  tIstt5'ss.   nias.  ttida  apt ls
C-asd1 ,ttsss  ussras. st    AtI -Is trtt  bnIthli  W910.   19h0.A  aS  i9S
dosa.                                                                                                 LI ..Ko.'.  A   J~   d_  SmfftCSC
sato   asttit  t                                                                                              As   t    ipl    tlsi    srutyptcpt    i  stsiisT:::jsi  tte 1SscoM tghste     tdis.5 ittre
ipith ti        _L,af'.; aeats   i    as          idatlait A :3 f-_-jP ----ii-tihutitt-sls  pstiig    tttl  utrfrt
bjt.tetssuar  s              P."tr  hy P55   .-Fs a------    eil   sd  tr.suitrttt'strrs                                           - iAfsfes I A Ices    tIsubti    setr  F., -adi
s"Isttt  sa    ar    alitt    srist)teaeir.hd   sgtiL__t  Aiprrt.es   iu   Ishu  forts  iW0..   19L10 5                                                                              i I date
saF   sd-"'     tstlal   at iitotstin  sa   slast AIS,  ..itt  itarsute                                     -s-at . ttttett    4-tar isro   teutii  eastttoi _ -tiafrtrAl
at haiushutd  tint   1*1-hi. HitsP-. ti1t) dI-u.                                                  uS1 elsrtrseit d sss11-           sapstsai   tttiisnttre;ls)
I.tu.ard   se ion tilsw tha   st.  1461 sr-sif tas  pssttla aS.,                ui -P"e.iqt   t--a slt-rollr   t  i  pipats  adte                                              in tra      Ld. r
if   isa    p slAM   Aioasa      a   h   wtIR   r-tpsa   ftpdattt thuf 'stattint                                       f Its ira  sAt    L-aa   I_rr  tL.
fhIr   WAtI    -ita isls?   5*-01  lisa             i    oe."""t_                                      Irseeirtoptorire   ilt ..alt  of-puptIatita                        h.sti   bAdbS r sisul5
tStrt  lat.brigS   lttak lrb.ts;   tS   tile s.I .d  tS  dots. -. .h-arbt.it..10   90..    9id
StbrI    isa llSad  it  date.thusi  ha ....=rutu   Flt  iststtthl 1                                                                               uSt I.-n. ,17  AdIId.
-Wesasetylt  (p11~      t- thossust)         .7  hnsl  oshao     -set   dra                            attff-t                   ltbsnt   Fo-e   1st-i  t)pi.      osu1     rh.sd  au 
pet Itds    i  hnsdit    tta    iC    il)a    itdt.Oasit'ss    i                                                                Inst 55 this l=-ItlStd-. Inst     . h lo iIs   a-- I %sleu
'griss if Sell tbttr Inten   St    A.'tatss ) - sesol             Itto   adP.ta  -PLA17   .  19ritii                  1 idaueidl iLstittio-a    selioat 
:IhsIh  -ty Wipi IA tour dshua s.d  utl  'sit r-M           Iu  .Wsi  sAsu   te seft                     utfttI,dof(-I.tlo.p-
inetOp-l  CuI.r       s  lrits   sartIZAo r  byst   orSM pelrld. hut                                  IttIsed  bat Lt Petrt  lae  Lost  -A.. sr  tastes  -.. arh   u                     li
isliteti .55    ttt  saI  asshtit   pssscs   hirnila & . upls   asswtteatv  pit 1L-tyItl,                                                      is   55 as-eL.thi  e:ttaruaptSp
sseicapxuut.) us I' piitsts 5r:     thu-tt tsepettr i.Piatt.                Xis 1es0 pirtut   trt  std ilthdu tsiir.= tha   Iau  Ia dtltdii                                           sse
ure    t   u1ttt  ist I-       ittuo-        tores   Lt tan'I it)" 2ii inir                         r.1st st       jtui  fir - t-gF  rtl  cpbli.lie   Isl teha  otsi-.rd
its.      _hist             -.yherutld t Ode  hus  'sth. e - tiaih    sr-sA  if tha                  itit trdlartottin - I SI.ihitt  Patt  Ita  ttl(srst  -at
a.rtis   Is       -L tiriaStsii i -(s Lrre   - irI,slatai  - t1St .  19itia  aeld 1
rirL.  -   utitt' pops   teaiT1hu    ol  e1t  itIT i  eril
Stapiua   Maprrou It I' tar traid) -tts   ptp uSltbta   pat.              l  dispsll .I-    .                                                 bb2                           -~ 'y'h
51  tslit'Ss thu roiluttis ad dtsnial. uLtft -  stth I.  Atsiie  * atdb   1-p                                      -,.l        It sasas ai -    Sirle ktOoss
fas     sita    55tet-tie   by st--at    pas  rt    -t                                                                  dbtt        I.ttpi-    tIt  y1   -55   Ibltr-jatIs       .  Depitta
Irta   s   V.tiia   ttiutltgs.fly-ul



BEST Copy AVLAlUsLE                                             - 22 - 
Page 3
ECONONIC INDICATORS
G00SS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 19E2 III                                         ANNUAL COMPOUND BATE OF GROWTH (S constant prices] 121
US$ rt;n      S                             1960-67     96T-74  1974-80  1980.82
GN? at Market Pr:ces                1045.9      100.0                             3.4       2.5       5.2        o.a
Gros_ Dontes±_c Investment           171.6       15.4                            6.1       -2.1       8.7       -3.6
Gross National Saving                -25.E       -2.5                           -Z.3          1/                         -
Current Account Balance /41         -195.T      .19.0 715.5                                -6.6      -1.2       22.6 151
flports of Gnoes, UFS                188.7       TE.0                           12.0       -2.E      11.6      -14-9 /51
Inpo-ts of Goods. XFS                359.7       3?; .                          13.7        4.9       6.2       -6.5 I51
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982 /6/
Value Added          Labor Fcrce      V.A. Per Worker
USS Mr.       :          Kln       S         US$        S
Agr:cu-ture                          445.6       42.6       2.T       T3.0     165.0       56.5
industry                             107.7       10.3       0.4       12.0     269.3       92.T
Services                             Z92.6       47.1       0.5       15.0     985.2      339.1
Total/Average                  1045.9 S     O-0        3.6      100.0     290.5      100.0
GCVERNMEXT FINANCE /T/
General Goverrnment            Central Government
(HF Sim.)      ;of GD? /68  (HF Bln.)          % of GDP
1562      1982    1979-E1      1982      19E2    9tg9-81
Current Receipts                     101.1       15.0      14.8       76.4      1t.6      T114
Current Expendttures                 111.0       16.4      18.6       S5.3      13.1       14.6
Current Surplu:s                      -9-9       -1-5      _4.1       -9.9      -1.5       -3.2
Capital Expencetures                    -         -_ ..                6.6       t10        --
External Assistance (net) /9/                .    .                  1425       2T71       16.4
MONEY. CREDIT AND P;ICES 3   /         791578    '979      1980       1967      1982                 1992       1983
(Bin MF Outstanding end-period)                      January   January
ioney and Ouasi-Mwoney               103.0      120.2     125.6      129.4     144.6                134.3      151.7T
Bank Credit to Government            101.8      110.1     111.9      123.1     151.5                124.4      154.1
Sank Credit to Economy               13,-6      152.2     164.0      1T4.8     190.0                175.8      197.0
(of which State Enterprises)         (71.9)    C89.2)   (104.6)   (110.7)   (116.8)                (107T1)   (120.1)
Money and Quasi-Money C: CD?)         24.3       23.1      22.4       21.3      21.4
General Price index /11/              100.0     -10.S     121.0      134.3     146.1
Annual percentage change in
General Price Index                    9.7       10.8       9.2       11. 0        8
Bank Credit to Government              T.5        8.2       1.6       10.0      23 3
Bank Credit to Economy                22.5       15.7       T.8        6.6       5.7
(of which State Enterprises)       (11.6)    (24.1)    (77.32      (5.3)      (5.5)
NOTES:  AlZ convers±ns to USS are jt the avenage exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
Not available indicated by '__
/Il  GNP estimate for 1982 based on current growth rates from VIW a3d 1980 GNP value from E7  National
Accounts data. All other components are estimates from DIM Staff Report, August 1983.
/2/  G?P growth rate calculated by the least-squares method, all other growth rates using end points.
/3/ Gross National Saving turned negative in 19T4, making calculation of a growth rate impossible.
/4/ Growth rate calculated from Resource Gap. not Current Balance. A negative sign indicates a growing dericit.
/5/ Growth rates calculated on the basis Of constant SDO s.
/6/ Labor Force from World Development Report 1983; these figures actually represent the T980 labor force.
Bank estimatas of value added by sector are not yet available. These figures were calculated by assuming
that between 1981 and 1982 the sectors changed (relatively to one another) as noted in the IMF Staff Report.
These relative changes were applied to 1981 3ank's sectoral breakdown and scaled to suN to GNP.
/7/  From iMF RED, August, 1983, and Capital Expenditure from the Malian Budget, 1982.
IS/  1952 GDP estimate from IMF Staff Report, August, 1983.
/91  Provisional estimates of net foreign borrowing from DRS and of grants from IMF RED, August. 1983.
Grants include food aid, project aid and budgetary aid.
/10/ All data from IMF International Financial Statistics Yearbook.
/11/  GDP deflator.  This is a composite series using deflators from EfD National Accounts data until 1950
and thereafter calculating the index by using percentage changes from IMF Staff Report to make the
deflators compatible with national accounts figures used.
August 29. 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
23-                                                         ANNEX I
*Page 5
TRADE PAYMENS AND CAPITAL FLOaS
BALANCE OF PAYMEST                                                            MERCHAiNDISE EXPORTS. FOB CAVERAGE 1980-82) 151
1980      1981       1982                                                  USS  lnm
Millions USS
Cotton and Products                  7T4.t      40C
Exports of goods, NFS /Il           262-1      200.1      188.T               Livestock and Products               SS9      _35
l;mports of goods, IFS /t6          S79.0      1R7.0     389.T                Groundnuts and Products               5.3        3.2
Resource gap (teficit=-)           -316.6    -216.6    -201.0                 Fish (dried and smoked)               2.3        1.4
AIll other commod it ies             29-2       17.5
Factor Payments (net) X1J           -16.3      -29.3     -26.5
Private Transfers (net) X1X          33.1       29.6      28.8                Total                               167.1      100.0
Balance on Current Account         -299.8    -216_3    -198-7                 EXTERNAL DEBT. Dec- 31, 1982 /6/
-USS Mn.
Government Transfers (net) fit    1S6.0        129.7       93.1
PILT Capital (net) 121              121.2       92.9         ..               Public Debt, incl. guarazteed                 1260.3
Receipts                        128.7      106.1                          (of whlch disbursed)                         (t25.2)
(of inhich public debt)        C117.1)    (91.9)
Payments                         10.9       1O.5        --               DEBT SERVICE RATro for 1982 /6/                    5
(of wbicn public debt)           (68.)     C7.3)
Public Debt. incl. Guaranteed                    5.2
Other Item-                         -31.2      -16.5         -
Increase in Reserves X26             -1.1       -T.2
IBRD/WAD LENDING 1982 (million US*) 16r
Gross Reserves 131                   25.6       21.9         .
Set Reserves /3/                     25.6       24.9         ..                                               IBRD            IDA
Deficit an Operations
Account J1C                  -279.2    -238.5          ..               Outstanding and Disbursed        0.0            153.8
Undisbursed                     0.0             91.7
Imports of Petroleum /5/             82.8      73_2       69.4                Outstanding and Undisbursed   0.0              245.5
Imports of Foodstuffs 15f            T8.8       83.T      61_6
RATE OF EXCHANGE 131
MSS 1.00 =                          1F 422.6    S43.46    657.24
MF   100 = USS                       0.21       0.18      0.15
(As of MaY 1983: USS 1.00 = NF   743.01
HF 100 = US$       0.13)
NOTES: For Balance of Payments. consistent. reliable estimates for 1982 are not currently awailab3e.
/I/  From IMF RED, August 1983.
121 From IMP Balance of Payments tearbooks. 'MLT Capital Set' is not equal to the difference between
Receipts and Payments because Net Use or Fund Credit is included in the net figure but is not included
Ln the gross figures. Net Use of Fund Credit is excluded from Total Caanges in Reserves.
131 Froi 1KV International Financial Statistics.
111  From CE, June, 1981, and DIF Staff Report, August 16, 1983.
/5/ From IMF RED, November 9. 1981. and DIP RED August. 1983. loports of Foodstuffs does not include
Food Aid.
161  From DtS Table 2. provisional for 1982. Debt service ratio is the ratio of debt service to exports
of goods and non-factor services.
August 29. 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE 24-
Annex II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
A. Statement of IDA Credits as at September 30, 1983
Borrower: Republic of Mali
Credit  IDA Fiscal                                        Amount
Number     Year      Purpose                               IDA      Undisbursed
--USS million----
Twelve Credits fully disbursed                              78.9
538-ELI    1975   Livestock                                 13.3          0.73
669-ELI    1977   Eali-Sud Agricultural                     1595          1.69
713-MLI    1977   Railway III                               10.5          0.59
733-MLI    1978   Education II                              10.0          0.74
753-MLI    1978   Mopti Rice II                             15.0         0.51
854-MLI    1979   Technical Assistance                       4.5          0.28
8B3-ELI    1979   Forestry                                   4.5          1.74
943-MLI    1979   Urban Development                         12.0          4.23
9B6-MLI    1980   Industrial Sector Development              8.0         6.44
1104-MII   1981   Road Maintenance                          17.0 1/      8.84 2/
1134-MLI   1981   Petroleum Exploration Promotion            3.7 TT       1.45 2/
1174-MLI   1982   ODIPAC Technical Assistance                6.5 T/      4.15 2/
1200-N%I   1982   Second Telecommunications                 13.5 T/     12.21 2/
1282-MLI   1983   Water/Pover                               24.0 T/     20.75 2/
1307-ELI   1983   Economic Management and Training          10.4 T/      9.28 2/
1403-MLI   1984   Biomass Alcohol and Energy Efficiency    7.6 T/ 3/   7.50 2/
254.90       81.14
of which has been repaid                 1.36
Total now held by IDA*                                     253.54
Total undisbursed                                                       81-14
Prior to exchange adjustment.
1/   Computed at the rate of the approved dates.
2/   Computed at the 9/30/83 rate of $1 = SDR 1.05684.
3/   Not yet effective.



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 25 -
Anaex II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments as at September 30, 1983
Loan                                                   Amount
Nuzber   Year  Borrower                  Purpose      of Loan  Equity  Undisbursed
--------USS million…---_
403-MLI  1978  Societe Mamadou
Sada Diallo et Pils       Bleach and
Plastic
Products         0.6              0.0
612-MLI  1982  Societe Industrielle    Sheanut butter
de Karite du Mali, S.A. for export         1.9     0.5      0.6



- 26 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Preparation:                               March 1980-
September 1982
by Government/IDA
(b)  Appraisal Mission:                                 October 1982
(c) Date of Completion of Negotiations:                 October 1983
(d) Planned Date of Effectiveness:                      March 1984
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action            Kone
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
The Government should:
(i)  (a) open the Special Account in the Banque de Developpement du Mali
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, for establishment of
the IDA-financed revolving fund, and (b) open an additional Project
Aceount for its own local counterpart revolving fund, and make into
it an initial deposit of ME 12.5 million, (para. 48);
(ii) appoint a consultant to assist NOPHSA in setting up and implementing
an appropriate project accounting system (para. 51);
(iii) establish and staff the PCU and LPCU (para. 51); and
(iv) appoint ADAUA on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA to undertake
the construction of new district and subdistrict health centers
(para- 53).



- 27 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
B. Condition of Disbursement:
(i)  As a condition of disbursement of the IDA Credit allocated for the
purchase of drugs for the PPM, the Government should complete an
initial audit of the PPK's accounts and select PPM pharmaceutical
management technical assistance under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association (para. 31).
r        .  Other Conditions
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances on the following
principal items:
(i)  with respect to the PPM, appropriate measures would be undertaken
to: (a) open and thereafter maintain a Pharmaceutical Account; (b)
furnish to the Association and thereafter implement a plan of action
for strengthening the management of PPM; and (c) furnish to the
Association and thereafter implement a five-year PPM investment plan
(para. 31); and
(ii)  by December 31, 1984, MOPHSA would:  (a) adopt an essential drug
list, drug formulary and standardized treatment manual; and (b)
present to the Association for its review and comments a study on the
effectiveness of its reform of the pharmaceutical sector, to be
followed by similar studies and reviews no later than December 31 of
each year thereafter (para. 32).



a
~~~~~~~~~~~~~to                                                                                I
M A U R I T A N I A
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KAYES  REGION
,                                '.    NIORO
;4  !      \       EtlM A~~LIMNE                         t-                                                                      oe   Zrle          «
>   )    >Aourou  v jf       /    S >,J         /            I \                           >                              *       HeatIh Ctmsers
0      Subc.n,ers
', I               i/          '                                   \rauva g
Paved roods
KAY                                                                 Karmt s    '  1<    2 N <    4   +Dbugor ntY  )                    Improved track
ToDoiar                  >                                    ssoubidclta                                                                                                 Trackes
h   )      %~~diold                          B          \0        X                l         <                                                   R,vers                           ;
Ma                                                                                      R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  egiol1ai cenler~
\     / I    - -    -   D,sir,ci boundoi,es
of                      oi                                                                       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reg,oinal boundarois
S  E N  E G  A  L                                                                                                                                               _    _      nteqt0nal 6wdor,es
BAMAKO
G U I N E A )                                                                                             '   ALGERIA
l"^W~-rw -'.*....... 'r J                                                                                                                                      ^MAURITANIA        M  A  L I        - 
',S  *~~~~~~~~j~~~*             /             O              5~~~~~~~0     100           ISto          2O o0 
c,.,n,,,' -~r Il.                                                                           KiIIColensrr,                                                        'I t           -                -?-. - -    NIGER
0~42   . I   *4vx                                                                                                                                                A         ) ,S*lA*-A-O  SU-PPER   x-i    'llGxaA  1     R
'V.                                                                                                                -'          (    ~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VOL TA  l~tt
12'                                                                                                                             GUINEA   /         f       OLA        `IJ "
t                                                                                                                                             ,l  r    -A  t H^r I  Ai 8s    .






