Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4465-MLI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 15, 1983
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malian Franc (MF)l/
US$1.00 = MF 746
MF 1 = US$0.0014
MF 1,000 = US$1.35
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ The Malian Franc is tied to the French Fran.c in the ratio of 1 French
Franc to MF 100. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
Basic   Data.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  iv
Definitions   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  v
Acronyms.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    vii
Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . viii
I.   THE HEALTH SECTOR. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
A.  Health Status. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
B.  Organization of the Ministry of Public Health
and Social Affairs.. ............ 2
C. Sectoral Resources.3. .   ......... 3
- Coverage of the Public Health System . . . . . . . . . .   3
- Health Manpower. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
- Pharmaceutical Supplies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
- Intersectoral Support. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
- Health Sector Financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
E.  Issues   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    10
F.  Bank Group Involvement in Health . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
II.  THE PROJECT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
A.  Project Concept and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
B.  Project Composition. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited Mali in
October 1982 comprising A. Williams (Administration and Management),
S. Foster (Economist), M. Furst (Rural Development Specialist); M. Jancloes
(Public Health Specialist), C. Sinclair (Architect), D. Vaillancourt
(Operations Assistant), and M. El Fekih (Consultant, Pharmaceutical
Specialist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
C.  Detailed Project Description .   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
- Manpower Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
- Drug Supply and Utilization. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
- Strengthening MOPHSA's Capability in Planning,
Coordination and Health Education. . . . . . . . . . . 18
- Development of Primary Health Care at the
Regional Level        ............  19
- Primary Health Care O)bjectives and Strate!gy. . . . . . . 21
- Retraining of Field Staff. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
- Construction and Equipment of Healt'h Facilities. . . .  . 22
- Project Zone Drug Supplies . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  23
- Village Level Health Education    ..23
- Monitoring, Research and Evaluation.           .24
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISB3URSEMENT
AND  AUDITING   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  28
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECO'MMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
TABLES IN MAIN TEXT
3.1  Project Cost Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
3.2  Estimated Price Escalation Rates . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  26
3.3  Financing Plan .        .  .  .    .  . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 27
4.1  Disbursement Schedule. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34



- liii-
Page No_.
ANNEXES
1.  Supporting Tables, Charts and Maps . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
Tables
T-1  Comparative Health Status Indicators . . . . . . . . .   40
T-2   Staffing Norms for District and Subdistrict
Health Centers ... .  .  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .  .  .   .   41
T-3  Health Manpower Training Institutional Capacity. . . .   42
T-4  Estimated Total Health Expenditures. . . . . . . . . .   43
T-5  Public Expenditure on Health, 1972-82. . . . . . . . .   44
T-6  Delivery of Primary and Secondary Health Care in the
Kita - Bafoulabe - Kenieba Project Area:
Comparative Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   45
T-7  Proposed Evaluation Criteria and Major Indicators. . .   46
T-8  Project Cost by Functional Categories and Years. . . .   48
T-9  Summary Cost by Project Expenditure and
Functional Categories. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   49
T-lO  Civil Works Implementation Schedule. . . . . . . . . .   51
T-11 Incremental Operating Costs, Year 6. . . . . . . . . .   52
T-12  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements. . . . . . . . . .   55
T-13  Summary of Technical Assistance. . . . . . . . . . . .   56
T-14 List of Vehicles ... .  .  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .  .  .   .   57
Charts
C-1  Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs
Organization Chart ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   58
C-2  Proposed Organization of Malian Pharmaceutical
Subsector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   59
C-3  Organizational Structure of DNAFLA and Structural
Relationship with ODIPAC . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   60
C-4  National and District Project Coordination Chart  . .    61
Map
M-1  IBRD 16998 ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   62
2.  Construction Technology. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   63
3.  Primary Health Care Delivery Scheme. . . . . . . . . . . . .   65
4.  Methodology for Initiating Village PHC Activities. . . . . .   67
5.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File. .   71



- iv -
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Data
Total Area. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.24 million km7 
Total Population (mid-1982) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.1 million
Density per km2 (mid-1982).  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.8
Rate of Natural Increase of the Population (1980) . . . . . 2.8%
Crude Birth Rate (1981) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Crude Death Rate (1981) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Life Expectancy at Birth (1980) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Infant Mortality Rate (1980). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154
Urban Population as % of Tota:L Population (1980).  . . . . . 20
Adult Literacy Rate (1977).  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9%
Primary School Enrollment (1979).  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28%
Age Structure
0   -   4   .    .    .  .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . .   .   .   .   .   .  18.3%
5    -    14  .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  28.1%
15 - 49 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42.6%
50+ . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  11.0%
Population per Physician (1977) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25,560
Population per Nurse (1977) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,380
Daily per Capita Calorie Supply (as percentage of
requirement, 1977). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83%
Percentage of Married Women of Reproductive Age
Using a Modern Contraceptive Method (1980).  . . . . .  .0 ..2%
Per Capita Gross National Product (1980).  . . . . . . . . . US$190



- v -
DEFINITIONS
Adult Literacy Rate                    The percentage of persons aged 15 and
over who can read and write.
Case Fatality Rate                  : Percentage of deaths due to a disease
among the total number of people who
have contracted the disease.
Child Death Rate                    : The number of deaths among children one
to four years of age per 1,000 children
in that age group in a given year.
Crude Birth Rate                    : The number of births per 1,000
population in a given year.
Crude Death Rate                    : The number of deaths per 1,000
population in a given year.
Incidence Rate                         The number of new cases of a disease
which occur in a population during a
specified period of time. Usually
expressed as the number of cases per
1,000 persons.
Infant Mortality Rate               : The number of deaths of infants under
one year of age in a given year per
1,000 live births in that year.
Life Expectancy at Birth            : The number of years an infant will live
if the current age/sex specific
mortality trends prevailing at time of
birth were to continue.
Maternal Mortality Rate             : The number of deaths to women who die
due to pregnancy and childbearing
complications in a given year per
100,000 live births in that year.
Morbidity                           : The frequency of disease and illness in
a population.



- vi -
DEFINITIONS (cont.)
Prevalence Rate                       :  The total number of people affected by a
disease estimated either at a specific
time (point prevalence'l or over a stated
period (period prevalence) expressed per
1,000 popu:lation (in case of low
figures, prevalence is expressed per
100,000 population).
Rate of Natural Increase                 The rate al: which a population is
increasing (or decreasing) in a given
year due to a surplus (or deficit) of
births over deaths, expressed as a
percentage of the total- population.
Total Fertility Rate                  :  The average number of children that
would be born alive to a woman during
her lifetime if she were to pass through
her childbearing years conforming to tlhe
age-specific fertility rates of a given
year.



- VIIL --
ACRONYMS
ADAUA                   Association pour le Developpement Naturel d'une
Architecture et d'un Urbanisme Africains (Association
for the Development of Traditional African Urbanism
and Architecture).
AMPPF                : Association Malienne pour la Promotion et la
Protection de la Famillie (Malian Association for the
Promotion and Protection of the Family.
DHE                  : Direction de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie
(Directorate of Hydraulics and Energy).
DNAFLA               : Direction Nationale de l'Alphabetisation Fonctionelle
et de la Linguistique Appliquge (National Directorate
of Functional Literacy and Applied Linguistics).
DNHPA                : Direction Nationale de l'Hygiene Publique et de
l'Assainissement (National Directorate of Public
Hygiene and Sanitation).
DNPFSS               : Direction Nationale de la Planification et de la
Formation Sanitaire et Sociale (National Directorate
of Planning and Health and Social Training).
MOPHSA               : Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs
MCH                  : Maternal and Child Health
MCH/FP               : Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning
MTTP                 : Ministare du Transport et des Travaux Publics
OACV                 : Operation Arachide et Cultures Vivrieres (Grourndnut
and Food Operation).
ODIPAC               : Office de Developpement Integre pour la Production
Arachidiare et Cerealere (Office of Integrated
Development for Groundnut and Cereal Production).
OMP                     Office Malien de Pharmacie (Malian Office of
Pharmacy).
PCU                  : Project Coordinating Unit
LPCU                 : Local Project Coordinating Unit
PPM                  : Pharmacie Populaire du Mali (People's Pharmacy of
Mali)
TBA                  : Traditional Birth Attendant






- viii -
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INTRODUCTION
i.        Mali's 7.1 million people are among the world's least privileged,
surviving on an annual per capita income of US$190. Eighty percent of the
population live in rural areas and derive an even lower annual per capita
income of US$100 from subsistence agriculture and nomadic livestock enter-
prises. Less than 10% of the adult population are literate; many rural
villages do not even have one literate person notwithstanding the
Government's attempts to promote functional literacy. Only 18% of the rural
population have a year-round source of safe water and women spend a
significant proportion of their time collecting water. With almost half of
the population under age 15, the dependency ratio is high and consequently
the productivity of the population as a whole and their potential for
generating savings above consumption requirements are low. Out migration has
been substantial.
ii.       The country's impoverishment is more concretely reflected in the
ill health of its people. At any given time, many Malian children suffer
from gastrointestinal illness which, in turn, reduces the absorption rates
from food consumed and thereby contribute signficantly to undernutrition.
Consequently, other infectious diseases such as malaria and measles become
extremely dangerous and often fatal. The crude death rate is high at 21 per
1,000, largely attributable to mortality in the 0-1 age group. Average life
expectancy at birth is 45 years; in western Mali it is 33 years--about the
lowest in the world. Poor health status also affects the pace of
development. High morbidity, particularly due to malaria and dysentery, is a
major cause of time lost from work among adults.
iii.      Social pressures to replace lost children contribute to high
fertility. Women have an average of 6.7 children. A high crude birth rate
of 49 per 1,000 with given mortality results in a rate of natural increase
of 2.8% per year implying potentially serious economic and social
consequences. Assuming little or no decline in fertility and mortality,
Mali's population is projected to increase to 12 million by the year 2000.
As elsewhere in the world, high fertility in Mali is associated with poor
maternal and child health and high mortality rates. Although 60% of the
-otal land area consists of desert or semi-desert, the land mass and small
Dor,ulation lead most Malians to conclude that the rate of population growth
roses no immediate problem. The Government as yet has no official population
pc licv; family planning is permitted for health, not demographic purposes.
Ir 1972, the Government repealed a colonial law that forbade the importation
and distribution of contraceptives. At the same time, family planning
services were made available in certain areas as part of maternal and child
health, the first such measure in francophone West Africa. However,
development of a population policy to allow systematic promotion of a family
planning program is still needed.



- ix -
iv.       The rapid population growth coupled w:Lth poor harvests caused by
unfavorable weather conditions and low producer incentives have transformed
Mali into a net cereal importer. It is estimated that over 10% of the 1-5
age group, and 7% of those aged 6-10 suffer frorn severe protein/calorie
malnutrition.  Estimates of the percentage of children moderately
malnourished are as high as 25%.  While according priority over the past
decade to food self-sufficiency and a rise in nu)tritional levels, the
Government was able only in 1981-82 to pull together a body of international
experts to begin to formulate a national food and nutrition policy.
v.        Recognizing that population, health and nutrition status are
interwoven, the Government believes that the best immediate means by which to
promote change in these areas is through integrated maternal and child
health/family planning services (MCH/FP). This consists of antenatal care,
improved birth attendance, vaccinations, nutritional education, and birth
spacing education and services.
vi.        In response to poor health conditions, the Government of Mali has
sought to develop a health policy with strong emphasis on disease prevention
and maternal and child health maintenance at the village level. This policy
was adopted as early as 1964 (over a decade before the World Health
Organization (WHO) drew up its international strategy of primary health care)
and has since been supported by various international and bilateral aid
agencies. Mali's adoption in 1978 of the WHO/UNICEF primary health care
strategy reinforced this policy. Accordingly, the 1981--85 National
Development Plan set out to promcte community health by taking account of the
felt needs of the population and encouraging their active participation in
health development, through traditional and other forms of association and a
multisectoral support system based principally on integrated rural develop-
ment operations.
vii.       Until now, Mali's pursuit of these policies (largely through donor
financed pilot projects) has been based on short-cut so:Lutions which often
circumvent the existing health service delivery system in order to reach a
dispersed, unsupported village population. Invariably, these efforts are
tenuous and falter after the withdrawal of donor support--mainly because of
poor planning, the substitution of technical assistance for local management,
inadequately trained and supported health manpower, and weak supervision and
support due to inadequate drug supplies and the neglect of the basic network
of district level health centers and subcenters. Inescapab:Ly, Mali's public
health system must acquire the technical capability to manage community level
health programs while providing credible services to the accessible popula-
tion.  Only to the extent that these difficult preconditions are nurtured can
low-cost village level first-aid, disease prevention, and health education be
sustained. Through the proposed project, the Government seeks IDA assistarnce
for priority activities of strengthening existing health services by develop-
ing its national capability in health manpower training, drug supplies, and!
health planning and management, while providing improved viLlage-level
services to three of the unhealthiest, hitherto inaccessible and therefore
neglected districts in the western region of Mali.



I. THE HEALTH SECTOR
A. Health Status
1.01      Mali's health statistics are incomplete and its health information
system unreliable. Quality epidemiological data are provided only through
surveys. The most recent survey was undertaken in three districts of western
Mali by the national university1/ to obtain baseline indicators for t:he
design and future evaluation of the proposed project (para. 2.30). Data show
that health status is poor; the population's perception of health as a
priority is very high, surpassed in many areas mainly by the need for
adequate water supply.2/
1.02      Mortality.  The crude death rate of 21 per 1,000 compares
unfavorably with other West African countries (19 per 1,000) and low-income
countries in general (12 per 1,000). Comparative health status indicators
are shown in Annex 1, T-1. Infant mortality, a key health status indicator,
is as high as 255 per 1,000 live births in some rural areas. Infant
mortality is chiefly due to diarrhea, malaria, tetanus, respiratory diseases
and malnutrition. Measles is the most common cause of death of children aged
one to four, and malnutrition linked with measles and diarrheal disease is
also a major cause of infant death. Survey data show that in some areas 12%
of women die during pregnancy or upon delivery. This reflects not only the
poor quality of prenatal and delivery care, but also the impact of poor
maternal nutritional status, heavy workload even during pregnancy, and
frequent childbearing. Clearly child spacing and improved MCH services are
key requirements for improving the health of the population.
1.03      Morbidity.  Most of the ill-health of Malians is caused by diseases
which can either be prevented or treated, using existing technologies. The
first cause of morbidity is malaria; its incidence is highest during the
rainy season from June to October, and rural people are the most seriously
afflicted. The high incidence of acute diarrhea and gastro-intestina]L
illness is caused principally by poor sanitation and hygiene and by
consumption of unsafe water. Other preventable or treatable diseases such as
measles, whooping cough, and acute respiratory infections account for much of
the high morbidity. Guinea worm spreads around water points and is a major
source of disability; each case results in about 50 days of temporary
incapacity.
1.04      Several blinding disorders exist including trachoma, with a female
predominance, xerophtalmia (a blinding condition in children of preschool
age), cataract, and onchocerciasis which is responsible for approximately
1/ Ecole Nationale de Medecine et de Pharmacie du Mali, Evaluation Sanitaire
des Cercles de K!&ni!&ba, Bafoulabe, Kita:  Rapport Pr6liminaire, Bamako,
Mai, 1981.
2/ S.N.E.D. (Mali), Projet d'alimentation en eau et developpement sanitaire:
Rapport socioenonomique, Bamako, Fevrier 1982.



- 2 -
half of the blindness in west:ern Mali. The blindness rate varies
considerably, but is generally high, reaching more than 10% in certain
villages. Clinical treatment: of trachoma and cataract is feasible in Mali at
present. Unfortunately, clinical treatment of onchocerciasis is not
recommended in hyperendemic areas at present; such treatment is often
ineffective, of long duration, has serious side effects and requires active
follow-up and supervision.  However, the regional onchocerciasis control
program financed by a consortium of donors, including the Bank, and executed
by WHO, will be extended to western Mali.
B. Organization of the Ministry of Public Health
and Soci'al Affairs (MOPHSA)
1.05      Most of the medical services in Mali are run by the MOPHSA.3/  An
organization chart is presented in Annex 1, C-1.  Health services are
organized to conform to the structure of the public administration whereby
regional and district medical ofl'icers have discretionary authority over
health programs and budgets. The central government is responsible for
planning, statistics, the coordirnation of health services, training,
technical operating procedures, administration of external aid, the operation
of hospitals, and enforcement. of public health laws.
1.06      Until 1980, the central MOPHSA administration was concentrated into
two technical directorates, namely the National Directorates of Public Health
(DNSP) and Social Affairs.  I'he adoption of primary health care required the
development of a technical capability at the national level with more
emphasis on community health education and sanitation, and better planning
and coordination.  To these ends, a new Directorate of Planning and Health
and Social Training (DNPFSS) was set up, responsible for planning
investments, evaluating their effectiveness, monitoring health status, and
overseeing basic initial training of paraprofessionals and inservice training
programs. A Directorate of Public Health and Sanitation (DNHPA) was created
out of the DNSP to reflect a stronger emphasis on community health education
and environmental health.
1.07      The MOPHSA has benefited from IDA-financed project preparation
advances (para. 3.08) which in early 1981 permit:ted the DNPFSS to set up
3/  The main exceptions are the Armed Forces (which run their own health
system), the parapublic sector (National Social Security Institute, PPM
and state enterprise dispensaries), missionary services, and the
traditional medical sector. Two important regional services outside
MOPHSA are the Western African Institute of Tropical Ophthalmology and
the Marchoux Institute (leprosy) which are under the supervision of the
Organization of Coordination and Cooperation for Endemic Disease Control
(OCCGE).



- 3 -
offices and hire health planning consultants to assist in preparing the
proposed project. The use of these resources was significant insofar aLs they
permitted MOPHSA to draw central and district level staff into the planning
process (hitherto undertaken mainly by donor agencies themselves). The
DNPFSS was also able to take the lead in drawing on non-MOPHSA resources,
such as the School of Medicine and Pharmacy and a local Malian consultant
firm, to undertake epidemiological and socio-economic surveys in the proposed
project zone (paras. 2.18 - 2.19), the first such health sector pre-project
data gathering exercises in Mali. Persuaded by examples of the use of
traditional building techniques for the provision of health facilities in
Upper Volta and Mauritania, the DNPFSS successfully collaborated with Mali's
Ministry of Transportation and Public Works (Annex 2) in applying these
techniques to health infrastructure planning under the proposed project.
Parallel preparation of the proposed IDA-financed rural water supplies
project was conducted out of DNPFSS office facilities in close collaboration
with MOPHSA, thus reflecting new emphasis on the need for intersectoral
coordination in disease prevention, environmental health and community health
education. Similarly, in the course of preparing the proposed project, the
DNPFSS joined with the Pharmacie Populaire du Mali (PPM), under the Ministry
of State Enterprises, to plan improvements in pharmaceutical policy and the
management and utilization of drug supplies (para. 1.22). These impressive
institution-building initiatives were time consuming but have significantly
improved the MOPHSA's planning capacity and have generated strong support for
smooth implementation of the proposed project.
C. Sectoral Resources
Coverage of the Public Health System
1.08      To implement national health policy, the MOPHSA is attempting to
develop a pyramidal health system down to the subdistrict level. The system
comprises 12 national, regional and secondary hospitals (up from 3 in 1960)
with a total of 2,500 beds; 46 district health centers (19 in 1960); 52 MCH
facilities (none in 1960); and 382 subdistrict centers (138 in 1960).
Despite poor conditions, hospital utilization is high; patients bypass the
lower level facilities and go directly to hospitals for even minor ailments
because the lower level facilities are often unable to provide even a basic
level of care.
1.09      Many district health centers are merely old dispensaries that were
upgraded in name after the 1977 administrative decentralization which created
a greater number of districts and subdistricts. Each of Mali's districts now
has a health center staffed by one or two doctors. Each subdistrict health
center is staffed by a qualified or auxiliary nurse. Maternity and MCH
facilities are staffed by a midwife; numerous rural maternities built by
local residents are staffed by young women who received on-the-job training
at a Government maternity. The standard staffing pattern of district and
subdistrict facilities is given in Annex 1, T-2.



- 4 -
1.10      Each regional system serves a population averaging one million, but
due to difficult road conditions and long distances, in most of Mali the
district health center must function as a self-contained health system an,:! be
capable of carrying out emergency surgery and most types c,f basic care. 'Fhe
district center staff are also responsible for providing technical suppor: to
the subcenters and village health workers, allhough the lack of vehicles and
operating budget makes this more theoretical t:han real. I'he lack of medical
equipment and drugs and generally poor support leaves many young doctors
discouraged after a year's service. Most of the former dispensaries that
were upgraded to health centers are at least 30 years old; equipment and
laboratory facilities are virtually non-existent, making piroper diagnosis and
treatment difficult.  Although the Government's promotion of village-level
primary health care require a credible health center and subcenter support
system, in less developed regions, such as western Mali, the support system
is functionally ill-equipped to meet the challenge.
1i11      Throughout Mali, effective medical coverage of the population is
estimated at 15% - 20% maximum, with coverage as low as 5% in the western and
northern regions. To improve medical coverage and strengthen maternal and
child care and family planning services, the Government experimented with
several village health programs (described be'low) whose results are being
taken into account in expanding services.
1.12      In 1964, training of traditional birth attendants (TBAs) in
hygienic delivery practices was begun in the Sikasso region. This resulted
in a significant reduction in tetanus among mothers and the newborn,
increased detection of risk cases and evacuation to the district maternity
prior to delivery, and a reduction in maternal mortality. By 1970, the
Governor of Sikasso and MOPHSA agreed on a program to organize village health
teams in the region comprised of rural midwives (matrons), TBAs and female
village health volunteers. Midwives were selected and pa''d by villagers for
each delivery they performed.
1.13      Between 1970-75, 120 rural maternities were constructed by
villagers and 342 rural midwives trained by MODPHSA. There was a tripling of
reported deliveries. These eff'orts were further expanded through the
IDA-financed First Mali Sud-Agricultural Project and Swiss bilateral aid.
However, the Sikasso program has had mixed results due to a high attrition
rate of midwives (many having been unmarried when recruited, and who then
moved on after marriage), insufficient remuneration, unsuitable location of
many rural maternities (leading to low utilization) and frequent rupture of
drug supplies managed by ruiral cooperatives and supplied bly the PPM.
1.14      The extension of the Government's program to Koualikoro in 1974
followed a more rigid approach that required mandatory construction of
village maternities, village support of a midwife and aide (both receivirng
monthly salaries), and the selection of volunteer male village health
workers.  This approach failed principally because the construction and
salary requirements were resented.



- 5 -
1.15      In 1978, the United States (USAID) and the Government of Mali
agreed to undertake a demonstration rural health project in two pilot zones
in the Kayes and Mopti regions. The project aimed at extending health
services to the village level at an investment cost of $2 equivalent per
capita and operating costs of $0.40, integrating health care with other com-
munity development activities, and serving as a model for a national rural
health system. Emphasis was placed on the selection and training of volun-
teer village health workers and TBAs, basic MCH services, the improvement of
wells, and the creation of village pharmacies. The project was executed by
MOPHSA with technical and management assistance provided by Harvard
University.
1.16      Although a final project evaluation is still unavailable, various
project implementation reviews have pointed out that the system is too
passive, too curative in its orientation, and lacking in real village parti-
cipation and support. As in Koulikoro, village financing was assured only if
villagers and their health associations agreed voluntarily to support prede-
termined activities. Drug supplies posed numerous problems. In several
villages where there was inadequate control of village health workers
managing supplies there was a financial leakage in excess of 20% of supposed
assets. Drugs were imported from the USA expressly for the project, and
supplied through MOPHSA without improving national or regional distribution
capability. Supervision from health centers to villages was too expensive,
representing 63% of all operating costs, and had to be scaled back. Because
the project expanded horizontal coverage without strengthening the ref-erral
system, subdistrict and district health centers were unable to support the
project's aims. Because initial and revised cost assumptions were based only
on village level services, without taking the referral system into account,
it was not possible to assess the financial replicability of the demonstra-
tion scheme.
1.17      The growth of family planning services has also been modest:  only
0.2% of women between the ages of 15 and 44 are estimated to use a modern
method of contraception presently. No data are available on the shar,e of
commercial pharmaceutical outlets, private consultations, non-government
dispensaries or traditional practices (although research on traditional
methods has been conducted with Canadian support). The majority of family
planning program acceptors (70%) are young, educated women who use the
urban-based services of the Malian Association for the Promotion and
Protection of the Family (AMPPF). The AMPPF has benefited from the assis-
tance of the Canadian International Development Research Center and the
International Planned Parenthood Federation. Government services are
provided in 21 out of 56 maternity MCH centers operating in Mali. The
Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs runs these services, trains
staff, and evaluates family planning activities with support from the United
Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) and the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID). Like the AMPPF, the quality and use
of Government services are heaviest in urban centers. Not surprisingly,



- 6 -
inadequate and poor quality prenatal and maternity care in rural areas and
the consequent low utilization of MCH services, are responsible for low
family planning acceptance rates outside the cities. A recent survey showed
that the majority of acceptors from rural areas were referred to urban
centers by physicians or learned of these services through word of mouth; few
were referred from MCH centers directly. The quicker rural MCH services are
improved and health education provided at village level, the greater the
likelihood that family planning will be accepted by the rural residents.
Significant increases in acceptor rates, however, are likely to remain modest
pending a clear reduction in extremely high rates of infant mortality in most
regions of the country.
Health Manpower
1.18      The main categories of health manpower are physicians, nurses and
midwives. In addition, community based health field workers, functional
literacy workers and traditional birth attendants are used for health relaiied
activities. MOPHSA employs over 4,300 health professionals and paraprofes--
sionals, of whom 234 are doctors and surgeons, 1,996 are nurses, and 268 a:re
midwives. Using World Health Organization norms, the Government has
established specific targets for ratios of heal]th personnel to population.
Current health manpower production falls short of these requirements. Hea:lth
personnel (physicians, nurses and allied health personnel) are currently
trained at four different health professional training schools. The type of
manpower trained and student enrollment at each school is given in Annex 1,
T-3). But, in view of severe budgetary constraints and actual absorptive
capacity, it is advisable not to increase production rates for the foresee--
able future.  The Government is more immediately concerned with improving l!:he
quality of basic and inservice training, and redressing the distribution
currently skewed in favor of cities and large towns. New physicians are
assigned to two years' mandatory service in rural areas, and other health
personnel are assigned as a matter of priority to health development projects
in rural areas.
1.19      Efforts to retain skilled personnel iLn rural areas are frustrated
by poor working conditions and professional isolation. In 1981, the DNPFSS
(with support from the U.S. Government) conducl:ed a manpower training needs
survey in the three districts of the proposed project zone (western Mali).
The majority of respondents complained about a lack of materials, drugs and
transport. Forty-six percent did not know who was their immediate super-
visor: they could only name the physician/med:ical officer as their head.
Ninety-seven percent had no educational/informational journals or materials.
Eighty-five percent of the nursing and paramedical staff haLd never received
inservice training. Training was requested in all key areas: supervision,
pedagogical techniques required for communicat-ing with patients and traininLg
village health workers, environmental sanitation and the protection of water
sources, diagnostic, laboratory and other specialist skills, and family
planning. Ninety-eight percent had no informaltion or training in family
planning, although 50% of the respondents said that they had been approached



by patients on the subject. The Government recognizes the need to launch a
national inservice program of continuing education and make reforms in basic
education by increasing the public health content of medical and nurses'
training.
Pharmaceutical Supplies
1.20      Soon after Independence, drugs were imported mainly through MOPHSA
and distributed through its health facilities free of charge. Due to
deteriorating public finances and weak management, MOPHSA could not meet the
fast growing demand for drugs. It became heavily indebted to foreign
suppliers, and had to rely on French Government grants to supply the drugs
while debts were paid off. Meanwhile, the Government authorized the Ministry
of State Enterprises to create a parastatal Pharmacie Populaire du Mali (PPM)
to import drugs for the commercial sector.
1.21      The PPM is one of the few profit-making parastatals in Mali.  A
diagnostic study of the PPM was financed by the Bank as part of the
preparation of the parastatal rehabilitation project being developed by West
Africa Projects Department. The study, which is available in the project
file, was done by a French consulting firm--PA Conseiller de Direction. It
reviewed the financial situation of the PPM and noted that although the PPM
is profitable and its sales volume is growing at 11% annually, improvements
are needed in its management and procurement practices. It is undercapi-
talized and has very low liquidity, largely because of excessive fiscal
pressure applied by the Government. Almost half of PPM's drug sales are made
in the capital, where about 10% of the population lives.
1.22      Aware that the system was failing to support national primary
health care objectives, the Government undertook a study of the
pharmaceutical sector in the process of preparing the proposed project. The
study was cofinanced by the Mali Government, the European Development Fund,
the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation, the United States Agency for
International Development, and IDA. The study proposed (and the Government
subsequently adopted) key policy changes and a restructuring of the
pharmaceutical system to improve procurement and distribution and reduce the
cost of essential drugs by at least 30% of their present cost.
1.23      The main policy changes provided for payment for outpatient drugs
(with the exception of treatment of chronic diseases, such as leprosy and
tuberculosis), adoption of a limited list of about 200 essential drugs for
MOPHSA facilities, procurement of these drugs in bulk international
competitive bidding, and the setting up of a revolving fund to procure
drugs.
1.24      The structural reforms adopted involve distributing the different
functions of the system among three organizations (see Annex 1, C-2). First,
responsibility for drug purchase and distribution would be taken away from
MOPHSA and entrusted to the PPM which would supply its network of 92 retail



- 8 -
stores, 300 commercial outlets, and all public health facilities. Second,
MOPHSA would strengthen its capability to coordinate and oversee drug policy,
monitor drug utilization and needs, and inform prescribers and the public.
Third, local production and research (particularly in the commercialization
of traditional medicine) would be grouped under the Office Malien de
Pharmacie (OMP).  As a MOPHSA affiliate, OMP would take charge of
the existing intravenous solut:ion manufacturing plant, the Institute of
Traditional Medicine, and the new essential drug factory, currently under
construction with assistance from the People's Republic of China. A joint
MOPHSA/PPM/OMP purchasing commissJion would be formed to determine the annual..
bid program, quantities to be manufactured and imported, and official sales
prices.  These proposals repre!sent an important, positive step forward.
Intersectoral Support
1.25      The Government has attempted to draw on intersectoral resources,
notably in the area of rural deve]Lopment, water supplies, and education in
order to complement the activities of MOPHSA. Agriculture dievelopment
projects have operated in Mali. on the assumption that farmers respond better
to extension efforts and participate more actively in market:Lng, credit and
input supply activities if at least a nucleus of villagers has attained a
minimal level of functional literacy and numeracy in their own languages.
Functional literacy components have therefore been included in rural
development projects in southe.rn and western Mali.  Tco date, 3,500 out of
about 10,000 villages in Mali have benefited from functional literacy
campaigns.  Health education has been successfully introduced into
post-literacy teaching materials. The Government plarns (witha support from
the proposed IDA education prc,ject) to extend literacy actions to 2,000 new
villages over the next five ye.ars, principally through existing Rural
Development Operations (ODRs).
1.26      The National Directorate of Functional Literacy and Applied
Linguisitics (DNAFLA), for which aLn organization chart is shown in Annex 1,
C-3, is under the Ministry of Education and is in charge of :Literacy
programs.  However, where a literacy program is included as a component of a
rural development project, responsibility for execution of the component is
given to a coordinator seconded by DNAFLA to the ODR.
1.27      The literacy network. and. agricultural extension agents are,
therefore, the only Government supported personnel who are legitimately
present, active and influential at the village level. Continuing efforts are
needed to draw on their ability and willingness to assist in organizing
village level health care, health education and hygiene, particularly as
regards the provision and use of water.
1.28      The health and nutritional status of tlhe rural population is
directly related to the availability and accessibility of uncontaminated
water. The principal source of rural water supp:Ly is groundwater which is
generally found in small and discontinuous acquifers, and is usually of good



- 9 -
quality and available in sufficient quantity to satisfy future requirements.
Annual rainfall ranges from 250 mm to 1,300 mm, and is unevenly distributed.
In the Sahelian zone, the dry season may last up to nine months, during which
period the traditional dug wells tend to dry up, forcing villagers to rely on
the few remaining contaminated surface sources (ponds and small rivers)
several kilometers away. About 25% of the villages or only 18% of the entire
rural population have access to safe water from modern water points, while
more than 7,000 villages still rely on unsafe water from traditional
sources.
Health Sector Financing
1.29      Health Expenditure.  Total expenditures in Mali for 1981 were
estimated to be about 16.7 billion MF (US$22.4 million) of which
approximately 54% was private expenditure, mainly on drugs. MOPHSA's public
expenditure accounted for about 30% of the total, and foreign assistance for
the remaining 16%. This corresponds to a total per capita expenditure of
about 2,300 MF (or US$3.08). No estimate could be made of expenditures on
private practice of medicine, nor for health expenditures by the Armed
Forces, nor for traditional medicine. (See Annex 1, T-4).
1.30      Recurrent Expenditure.  Due to a steady deterioration in Mali's
public finances, the recurrent budget for health has decreased from about a
9% share of the national budget in 1972 to about 6% at present. This is
equivalent to about 0.75% of GDP. At the same time, MOPHSA has continued to
absorb new graduates of the medical and nursing schools, which has mea,nt that
the ratio of personnel to material has been rising with a concomitant
reduction in the productivity of each individual worker. Personnel account
for between 60-75% of expenditure since 1976. The 1982 recurrent budget
totals 5,026 million MF (US$6.7 million) (Annex 1, T-5). Public recurrent
expenditure in real terms has declined from about 981 MF per capita in 1972
to 793 in 1981.
1.31      The bulk of recurrent expenditure benefits the urban areas since a
disproportionate percentage of health personnel as well as drug distribution
outlets are concentrated in Bamako and the regional capitals. An analysis of
expenditure in three districts in the First Region (western Mali), which
reflects the situation of other rural areas, demonstrates this unequal
distribution.  Some 7% of Mali's population lives there, yet only 2.4% of
higher level health professionals are assigned there, and only 1.3% of the
Pharmacie Populaire's sales are made in the zone.  The recurrent costs in
this area, primarily for personnel, are about 150 MF per capita; it is likely
that total recurrent expenditures there do not exceed 200 MF, which is
roughly one-fourth of the national per capita public health expenditure of
about 800 MF.
1.32      Investment Expenditure.  MOPHSA's 1982 investment budget was 459
million MF (US$6.2 million), mainly in the form of foreign donor support. As
in the past, actual investment depends on the availability of prepared



- 10 -
projects and donor commitments.  Of the Pharmacie Populaire's 1981 investment
program of 110 million MF, which was approved by the Ministry for State
Enterprises and the Ministry of Plan, only 3 million were realized due to
withholdings by the Ministry of Finance. This compares with the PPM's import
duty and tax bill of 1,016 million MF (see para. 1.35).
V. Issues
1.33      Planning and Coordination.  MOPHSA's pursuit of community based
primary health care based on small-scale demonstration projects made
necessary the development of a health planning/program coordinating
capability. The establishment of the Directorate of P'lanning and Health and
Social Training (DNPFSS) marked an important step forward.  But the DNPFSS's
presumed coordinating function was subsumed under planning. Furthermore,
because DNPFSS was placed at the same level as other technical directorates,
it has not developed a viable coordinating capability within and outside
MOPHSA. Implementation of the Kayes/Mopti demonstration project and
preparation of the proposed Health Development project revealed that a
high-level coordination capability is urgently needed. Following appraisal
of the proposed project, the Council of Government Mintisters adopted MOPHSA"s
plan to create a small Project Coordination Unit (PCU) attached directly to
the Minister of Health and Social Affairs. The PCU (para. 4.03) would
coordinate project activities through existing technical directorates.
Planning and evaluation would, for the time being, remain within the DNPFSS
as a technical activity. The performance of the PCU, its relationships with
the DNPFSS, and the feasibility of separating planning and coordination wou'ld
be reviewed during mid-term and final evaluations of the proposed project to
determine the most effective location of plannirLg and coordination functions
(para. 4.17).
1.34      Recurrent Costs.  Tle Government recognizes its financial
constraints and impossibility of increasing the recurrent health budget. Tte
growing disequilibrium between MOPHSA salary requirements and funds available
for materials and logistics together contribute to a deterioration in
services, programs and ongoing projects. MOPHSA intends, therefore, to:
(i) strengthen its recurrent budget analysis, forecasting and planning
capability (para. 2.14); (ii) hand over its drug distribution functions to
the PPM (para. 1.24); (iii) elncourage the purchaLse of drugs prescribed on an
outpatient basis; and (iv) develop and test a scheme (currently underway at
the Gabriel Toure Hospital in Bamako) to promote cost recovery by charging
for hospitalization, deliveries, X-rays and labcratory examinations.
Receipts under this experiment would be retained by the hospitals and health
centers to purchase drugs through the PPM for in-patient needs. A portion of
these funds at the health center level would, if available, be used to assist
with infrastructure and equipment maintenance.  MOPHSA has proposed to extentd
and evaluate this scheme in ortgoing pilot projects as well as the proposed
project zone (para. 2.26).



- 11 -
1.35      Drug Supply.  The PPM needs more effective management and increased
working capital to: (a) provide drugs commercially at least cost in support
of the new policy requiring payment for drugs; (b) open new outlets in
underserved areas; and (c) take over from MOPHSA responsibility for supplying
the public health system. The PPM is seeking technical assistance to improve
its planning and management. In order to pay suppliers promptly at reduced
prices, the PPM proposes to set up a revolving fund of about $2 million.
Although the revolving fund is an appropriate means of improving the PPM's
liquidity, the long-term viability of expanded operations can be assured only
if its working capital increases in the medium-term. Undercapitalization
reflects a siphoning of PPM's profits in support of other sectors of the
economy. The issue is critical and is being addressed in the framework of
the Bank's attempt to improve the financial situation of parapublic
enterprises in Mali.
1.36      Extension of Primary Health Care.  The Government has had successes
and disappointments (paras. 1.02 - 1.06) in reorienting the health system
toward a village-based preventive system. The experience of pilot programs
indicates that without abandoning these approaches, there is a need to:
(a) ascertain specific village interests and solicit support and agreement
for feasible activities; (b) increase reliance on available local
resources--such as literacy and agricultural extension workers--as legitimate
carriers of information directly to interested villagers; (c) re-emphasize
the preventive aspects of primary health care with respect to health
education, nutrition, birth spacing, child care, the safeguarding of water
sources and the hygienic use of water; and (d) most importantly, as stated in
the current Development Plan (1981-85), address basic preconditions of
primary health care--namely the improvement of existing public health
services--prior to attempting to expand coverage to the village level.
1.37      Population Program.  Without a successful population program, the
Government's goal of improving maternal and child health as well as providing
enough food and raising educational levels will be all the more difficult.
The strengthening of maternal and child care and integration of family
planning with it is an important step forward. This needs to be put in the
framework of a national population policy which should allow for face-to-face
motivation, expanded role of voluntary organization and inclusion of
demograhpic factors in development planning. With UNFPA assistance, a
population unit has recently been established in the Ministry of Plan to help
develop a population policy. The Unit will undertake studies related to the
impact of population growth on development. This analysis will help provide
information necessary for population policy development.
1.38      Manpower Development.  The focus of health training at all the
professional schools is on curative health care services; students are
ill-prepared to address the problems of rural population. Public health
accounts for only 10% of the nursing school curricula. Nursing schools'



- 12 -
curricula have not been revised in over ten years. Students also need to
receive practical training under field conditions.
F. Bank Group Involvement in Health
1.39      The Bank Group's involvement in health in Mali dates back to 1976
when the first Mali Sud Agricultural Project included a health component. A
second follow-up project and health component has been appraised. These
components were designed to support village level primary health care in th,
Sikasso region. Additional Bank involvement has been indirectly through
support for the introduction of health themes into the functional literacy
programs conducted in western Mali through the First Education Project and
the OACV (now ODIPAC) Rural Development Project.. The Bank's support for the
Onchocerciasis Control Program includes Mali (para. 1.04).
1.40      While encouraging these health components, the Government
nonetheless has long sought a wider Bank involvement in the health sector.
In late 1977, the President of Mali requested the Bank to undertake a
free-standing health project. A sector mission visited Mali in 1978; its
main recommendations, which included a priori the creation cf a MOPHSA health
planning unit followed by the development of health and water supply
projects, was accepted by the Government. The Government's advocacy of
combining water supply and health interventions is based on the recognition
that a water supply program is one of the basic actions which might reinforze
the effects of health programs. Adequate quantities of safe water are a
widespread, priority need. Tne Government assunies reasonably that organizing
villagers around water resource management would provide a practical basis
for preventive community health education (hygienic water use being important
in the reduction of Guinea worm, 'hepatitis, diarrhea, conjunctivitis, and
various skin diseases). Conversely, the promotion of primary health care
activities would permit knowledgeable villagers to take a more direct role in
maintaining water sources.  These assumptions have shaped the design of the
proposed Rural Water Supplies Project (Appraisal Report #4402-MLI), to be
implemented in conjunction with t'he village-level primnary health care
component of this Health Development Project (paras. 2.28 and 2.29).
II. THE PROJECT
A. Pro-ject Concept and Objectives
2.01      The foregoing health sector review illustrated the severity of
health conditions, low medical coverage, inadequacies of human and financial
resources, and the inefficiency or inertia of the public health system,
particularly in the rural periphery.



- 13 -
2.02      The project is designed to reduce these deficiencies and is based
on the 1981-85 National Development Plan insofar as it addresses major
bottlenecks affecting the entire health sector--health manpower, drug supply,
and health planning and administration--while at the same time, helps improve
health conditions in three of the poorest, least healthy districts of Mali.
The project, therefore, has two discrete but mutually reinforcing parts. At
the national level, the project would: (a) improve the training of health
manpower; (b) improve the availability and utilization of essential drugs;
and (c) strengthen MOPHSA's capabilities in planning and coordination. At
the regional level, the project would, in three districts: (a) strengthen
the existing public health network in accordance with primary health care
objectives; and (b) develop health education, water hygiene and related
primary health care activities at the village level.
B. Project Composition
Part A
2.03      At the national level, the proposed project would provide:
(a)  Health Manpower Development:
(i)    basic and inservice training of medical and paramedical
personnel through the provision of 34 manmonths of technical
assistance, materials and operating costs for curriculum
development, and field training, together with about 18
fellowships for inservice specialist trainees.
(b) Drug Supply and Utilization:
(i)    two manyears of technical assistance for improving the
financial management of the PPM, and an initial stock of
drugs to improve its financial status by establishing a
special drug purchasing account; and
(ii)   office facilities, materials, two vehicles, vehicle
operating costs, and 14 manmonths of technical assistance to
assist MOPHSA to strengthen its pharmaceutical planning and
control services, test and develop a policy of payment for
drugs, organize information for the public and health
manpower on drug prescription and consumption, and publish
an essential drug list and treatment manual.
(c) Planning, Coordination and Health Education:
(i)    office equipment and two vehicles, eight manmonths of
technical assistance, 13 fellowships and short-term training
in health planning, together with consultant services for
pre-investment studies;



- 14 -
(ii)   a MOPHSA national and local Pro-ject Coordinating Unit,
supported by about 9 manmonths of management: technical
assistance, 14 manmonths of specialist services in
procurement and external auditing, about 3 vehicles, office
materials and operating costs; and
(iii)  three manmonths of technical assistance, equipment and
materials to improve MOPHSA's Health Education Services; andi
a small center comprising office facilities and a library
serving Planning, Documentation and Health Education
Services.
Part B
2.04      At the regional level, the project would provide:
(d)  Development of Primary and Secondary Health Care:
(i)    equipment, drugs, operating costs and 48 manmonths of
technical assistance for the implementation of a program of
health services at the district, subdistrict and village
levels;
(ii)   travel allowances, per diems and. materials for retraining of
field staff; and
(iii)  construction of 3 replacement district health centers, 18
subcenters, and renovation of 3 additional subcenters,
including equipment and furniture, 6 four-wheel drive
vehicles, 12 motorcycles, 15 motor bicycles, 18 bicycles,
operating costs and maintenance.
(e) Village Level Health Education:
(i)    training of village level health workers, and promotion of
innovative aclivities by community groups contributing to
the improvement o:E the health status of the population.
(ii)   8 manmonths oi advisory services to assist in the
preparation and evaluation of health-related literacy
materials, together with teachin.g materials for literacy
program field staff; and
(iii)  inservice training, incremental salaries and allowances for
literacy program iEield staff; one four-wheel drive vehicle
and 6 motorcycles and 6 radios, including operating costs
and travel al:Lowances for community health education;



- 15 -
(f) Monitoring, Research and Evaluation:
(i)    a microcomputer, 25 manmonths of technical assistance and
operating costs to monitor and evaluate project activities,
measure changes in health status in the project area, and
strengthen MOPHSA's primary health care research and
evaluation capability.
C. Detailed Project Description
Part A
Manpower Development
2.05      As shown earlier (paras. 1.18 - 1.19), there is a need to improve
the quality of basic training at the national level, and to develop inservice
training at the regional level in line with primary health care program
requirements. In addition to being handicapped by very poor field
conditions, students are inadequately prepared after graduation because of
major gaps in their public health training and a lack of prior exposure to
practical team work during their basic training. There is insufficient
up-to-date professional literature in school libraries and at health
facilities.
2.06      Objectives.  At the national level, the project would improve the
quality of health manpower in medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, nursing,
midwifery, allied technical fields and community development by stregthening
the basic and inservice training.
2.07      To strengthen the basic training, the project would improve the
curriculum of the National School of Medicine, the Secondary School of
Nursing, the Nursing School at Point "G, and the National Center for
Community Development. Teaching content would be strengthened in the
following areas: public health management, administration and economics;
maternal and child health, and family planning; health education;
epidemiology and biostatistics; drug prescription; and adult education.
During an initial five-month period, a needs assessment survey would be
conducted, followed by four months' drafting of new course proposals. An
additional four-month workshop period would evaluate these proposals, leading
to further revision and the adoption of a definitive program (five months).
Teacher orientation, experimentation and evaluation would occur during an
additional six months. The libraries of each school would be provided with
updated reading material in each field to be strengthened. To develop
teamwork under practical field conditions, the project would provide field
training three times annually to students from each of the four schools.
With respect to inservice training, the project would provide up to six
annual training sessions for various categories of MOPHSA personnel working
in rural areas to bring them up to date with professional developments in
public health and to share regional experiences in primary health care. To



- 16 -
increase the availability of master trainers (thereby providing a larger pcol
of trainers for national inservice training), the project would provide 12
short-term (three months) fe:Llowships in training techniques to existing and
potential trainers in MOPHSA, the Medical and Nursing Schoo'Ls and the
National Center for Community Development.  Because of the need for doctors
skilled in eye surgery (see paral. 2.21), the project would in addition
provide 6 fellowships to MOPHISA medical personnel for specialization in this
area. Based on project experience, DNPFSS would develop a Long-term
inservice training program (para.. 2.24).
2.08      Categories and Targets.  The improvement in basic training would
benefit annually about 50 students in medicine, pharmacy and dentistry, about
180 student nurses, midwives, sanitary technicians and laboratory techni-
cians, and about 25 students in community development. FieLd training of 45
days' duration would be provided to all final year students in three groups
three times per year. Annual inservice training (six days) would be provided
to about 100 MOPHSA personnel.
2.09      Implementation.  The proposed curriculum reform would be organized
by an ad hoc committee of five persons from each of the schools concerned and
MOPHSA's Directorate of Planning and Training (DNPFSS), withi a lead coordira-
tor provided by the DNPFSS. They would be supported by 26 manmonths of
technical assistance in curriculum development, nursing, MC]1/FP, health
economics and management, adult education methods, and community develop-
ment.  Per diems and materials would be provided for workshop participants.
An additional eight manmonths of technical assistanceL would be provided to
assist in orienting teachers to the new curriculum. Field training would be
provided at three district hetalth centers in Kita, Bafoulabe/Mahina and
Kenieba (western Mali). The pro-ject would finance minor upgrading of
existing facilities to provide appropriate dormitory and conference
facilities in each of these districts. The DNPFSS would coordinate field
training; and trainers would be provided by each of the schools concerned.
Likewise, the DNPFSS would organize annual inservice seminars, as has been
done in the past, at appropriate meeting halls at the regional level.
Drug Supply and Utilization
2.10      Drugs are essential to improving the health status of Malians, and,
as noted in paras. 1.20 - 1.24, the price of drugs is generally high,
supplies are inadequate, particularly in rural areas, parallel distribution
by MOPHSA and the PPM has been inefficient (free MOPHSA distribution along-
side a commercial PPM network), and both prescription and consumption habits
are poor. The project would: (El) assist the PPM in supplying both the
commercial sector and MOPHSA facilities more efficiently; (b) assist MOPHSA
in planning and coordinating the needs of the national pharmaceutical sector,
as well as developing and testing a drug cost r,ecovery scheme in its health
facilities; and (c) support MOPHSA's attempts to improve prescription and
drug consumption practices.



- 17 -
2.11      Strengthening the PPM.  The project would strengtnen the PPM's
management and improve its procurement and distribution so that drug a,aila-
bility is more widespread at lower cost to the consumer. The PPM is
adequately staffed at the central management level. But, because the PPM has
imported drugs principally from a few major suppliers in France, its manage-
ment has had relatively limited experience in purchasing in bulk through
competitive bidding, analytical accounting and pricing. For these purposes,
the project would provide two manyears of technical ass stance.  To permit
the PPM to pay suppliers promptly, thereby reducing pui 1S.iSng costs and
sales prices, the project would provide $1.9 millior  i-o,rchase an initial
stock of drugs, the sale of which would be used to ccr,i   e a PPM
purchasing account. Completion of an initial audit of the PPM's accounts and
the selection of management technical assistance under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association would be a condition of disbursement of the IDA
Credit allocated for the purchase of drugs for the PPM. During negotiations,
the Government provided assurances, first, that it would (a) not later than
June 30, 1984, open and thereafter maintain a Pharmaceutical AccGunt in
Malian francs in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association; (b) ensure that any receipts from the sale of drugs
financed from the proceeds of the Credit be promptly deposited into the
Pharmaceutical Account; and (c) not later than at the end of each calendar
quarter, starting the calendar quarter ending September 30, i984, maintain in
the Pharmaceutical Account a balance of not less than 100,0003CUC00 Malian
francs. Secondly, (a) not later than December 31, 1984, the Government
would furnish to the Association a plan of action for strengthening
management of the PPM satisfactory to the Association; (b) not later than
March 31, 1985 implement such measures as shall be agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association; and (c) not later than March 31 of each year,
thereafter, review the effects of such measures in consultation with the
Association. Thirdly, (a) not later than December 31, 1984, the Borrower
would prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and comment a
five-year investment plan for the PPM, and (b) not later than December 31,
1985, implement such measures from the plan as shall be agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Association.
2.12      Strengthening MOPHSA's Pharmaceutical Planning and Cost Recovery
Capability. Under the proposed reform of the national pharmaceutical system,
MOPHSA would play a central role in coordinating drug policy and planning.
To these ends, the project would strengthen MOPHSA's Inspectorate of Public
Health and Social Affairs which would: (a) review existing legislation
regarding the pharmaceutical sector and, through its inspection service,
enforce appropriate legislation; and (b) serve as a secretariat for standing
committees in charge of licensing and authorizing drug imports, determining
drug nomenclature and formulating official lists of drugs for public health
facilities, and planning, executing and evaluating reforms of the national
pharmaceutical system. To these ends, the Inspectorate would be provided
with a special Division in charge of inspection and policy, planning and
licensing. The project would provide renovated office space for the
Division, together with office equipment, two vehicles and vehicle operating



- 18 -
costs. In addition, twelve manmonths of technical assistance would be
provided to assist in setting up the Division and in testing implemention cf
the Government's proposed policy of payment for drugs (para. 2.26).  During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances thal MOPHSA would, not later
than June 30, 1984, establish and thereafter maintain a Division of Pharmacy
and Drugs within MOPHSA's Inspectorate of Public Health and Social Affairs,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.13      Improved Prescript-ion and Drug Consumption Practices.  The proposed
reform of the pharmaceutical secl:or would be based in part on more widespre,ad
use of lower cost generic drugs, a reduction in the list of drugs to be
provided at public health facililties, and reorientation of prescribers and
the public with regard to changes in national pharmaceutical policy. To
these ends, the project woulcd provide revised editions of tlhe essential druig
list, drug formulary, and standardized prescribers' treatment manual. The
reorientation of prescribers wou]Ld be undertaken through regional seminars
for physicians, pharmacists and managers of PPM supplied sales outlets.  The
press, radio and regional government officials would also participate.
Sessions would be organized by a team made up of MOPHSA officials and
including a Professor of Therapeutics at the School cf Medicine and
Pharmacy.  A film on drug prescri'ption and consumption practices would be
produced. Two manmonths of specialist assistance in mass media information
would be provided to assist t.he press and radio to simplify and diffuse the
information campaign to the public at large. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that by December 31, 1984, (a) it would adopt
an essential drug list, drug formulary and standlardized treatment manual; and
(b) present to the Association for its review arad comments a study on the
effectiveness of its reforms of the pharmaceutical sector, to be followed by
similar studies and reviews no later than December 31 of each year
thereafter.
Strengthening MOPHSA's Capability in Planning, Coordination and Health
Education
2.14      As indicated in para. 1.07, MOPHSA needs continuing support in its
attempt to develop a stronger capability in hea:Lth planning, project
implementation and coordination, and community health education.  With
respect to planning, steps need to be taken to improve budge!t forecasting a!nd
analysis with a view toward making better provisions for the continuation of
viable primary health care projects during and especially af'er the
termination of foreign assistance. The project would provide eight manmontris
of technical assistance in health planning to help MOPHSA's Directorate of
Planning and Training (DNPFSS) in this regard. To permit the DNPFSS to
develop further the evaluation and project formulation process begun during
the preparation of this project (para. 1.07), the project would provide
consultant services to the DNPFSS for preinvestmtent studies with a view
toward inter alia: (a) preparing proposals for further improvements in
health planning, including formulation of budgetary mechanisms enabling
reasonable cost recovery; (b) preparing of a cost and feasibility analysis of
a nationwide primary health care program; (c) designing outreach programs and



- 19 -
projects for strengthening primary health care activities, including maternal
and child health/family planning and nutrition at the community level; and
(d) developing a long-term national MOPHSA inservice training program (para.
1.19). To improve the availability of qualified personnel, the project would
provide 13 fellowships in planning, evaluation, statistics, and computer
programming, together with training in health economics for about 10 existing
MOPHSA administrative personnel. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that, by December 31, 1984, it would establish and
thereafter maintain within DNPFSS the following full-time positions and hire
the following personnel to fill such positions whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Association: (i) a statistician;
(ii) a health planner; (iii) a training specialist; and (iv) an evaluation
specialist. By December 31, 1987, the Government would submit to the
Association for its review and comments preinvestment studies mentioned
above, and, not later than December 31, 1988, furnish to the Association a
plan of action for the implementation of the recommendations emanating from
these studies.
2.15      In support of the need for a stronger MOPHSA capability in project
implementation, (para. 1.33), the project would set up a Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU) attached to the Office of the Minister of Health and Social
Affairs which, by working through existing Directorates and line agencies,
would be responsible for coordinating implementation of this project and for
authorizing all project related expenditures. Organizational details are
given in para. 4.03 and an organization chart is provided in Annex 1, C-4.
About fifty-seven manmonths of technical assistance would be provided through
the project to support the PCU at the national and regional levels, together
with 10 manmonths of accounting services and four manmonths of procurement
services for the preparation of equipment lists and bidding documents.
2.16      In support of MOPHSA's need to develop community health education
services (para. 1.36), the project would provide three manmonths of technical
assistance to MOPHSA's Health Education Division to assist in developing a
health education program, including the design of appropriate community
education materials for the village level, local language press and national
radio (see paras. 2.28 - 2.29). A small facility, (about 360 m2), equipment
and reading materials would be provided comprosing: (a) DNPFSS offices for
health planning; and (b) a center with a library serving the existing
Documentation and Health Education Services.
Part B
Development of Primary Health Care at the Regional Level
2.17      Three districts (Kita, Bafoulabe and Kenieba) in the western
(Kayes) region, have been selected for the development of a primary health
care system under the project (see Map IBRD 16998). The districts are



- 20 -
located immediately to the west of Bamako, the capital, and on the northern
and eastern borders of Guinea and Senegal, respectively.
2.18      Health Status.  These districts were selected because the health
status of the population and the availability of health services are
extremely poor.  Infant mortality is 255 per 1,000 in these districts,
compared with 150 nationally (a comparison of health indicators is presented
in Annex 1, T-6). The epidemiological survey conducted in These districts
during project preparation (para. 1.01) indicate that: life expectancy at
birth is 33 years, twelve years 'Less than the national average.  Maternal
mortality is estimated at 1,000 per 100,000 pregnancies.  Malaria accounts
for 27% of all deaths in children, 0-9 years. Intestinal diseases, linked to
the unavailability of safe water, was one of the most frequent complaints cf
villagers surveyed. The prevalenice of goiter is as high as 29%; 18% of the
adult population have a history of hepatitis. Blindness prevalence is 3%,
mainly due to cataracts, trachoma and onchocerciasis.  The prevalence of
clinical protein-calorie malnutrition is 10.8% for the 3-1 age group, 14.82
between ages 1-4, and 1.1% in the 5-9 age group. These data underscore the
need for developing a health program aimed at improving basic health care
with emphasis on maternal and ch-ild health.
2.19      Economic and Socia:L Characteristics.  About 455,000 people live in
the proposed project zone, which is generally rugged and remote. Annual
rainfall from 700 to 1,200mm occurs only during the four-mocnth rainy season.-
--June to September. Transport is rudimentary and a major impediment to
economic development and the provision of health services. Although the
railway runs through Kita and Bafoulabe, it serves only those villages in
close proximity.  The road network is little more than unimproved track, and
is better in Kita than BafouLabe and Kenieba, where many villages are isola-
ted during the rainy season. The majority of the populationn is engaged in
rain-fed cultivation of subsistence crops, prim!arily millet and sorghum.
Groundnuts have been cultivat:ed as a major casb crop through a large-scale
IDA assisted rural development agency (Operation Arachides et Cultures
Vivrieres, or OACV, and its successor Office de Developpement Integre pour la
Production Arachidiere et Cerealiere, or ODIPAC). A year-round supply of
publicly available water supply is extremely limited (3.4 public wells per
1,000 population).  Less than one-fifth of school-age children are estimatetd
to attend schools. However, through the OACV and ODIPAC projects, about 7_'0
functional literacy centers have been establish,ed in the project zone--a key
framework through which to promote community level primary health care.
2.20      Health Services.  For the majority of the population, the nearest
source of "modern" medical care is a public subdistrict health center, most
of which are poorly equipped and in disrepair. Drugs are practically availa-
ble only at sales outlets run by the PPM and ru.ral cooperatives. Traditional
birth attendants are the most widely available and utilized source of
maternity care (averaging five TBAs per village). A credible referral syst:em
from villages to health subcenters and centers is non-existent.  Evacuation
to a maternity is likely to occur only in situations where the woman is



- 21 -
already experiencing life-threatening difficulties while in labor.
Primary Health Care Objectives and Strategy
2.21      In response to these conditions, the project would assist the
Government in improving the quality of primary health care services to the
population of Kita, Bafoulabe and Kenieba. To achieve this objective, the
project would upgrade the network of district health centers and subcenters,
retrain existing paramedical personnel attached to these facilities, and
initiate the process of promoting primary health care, community health
education and the hygienic use of water at the village level. The project
would help improve the population's health status by reducing the incidence
of major diseases as identified during the epidemiological survey.
Specifically, the project would provide an integrated program of health
services through the following interventions: malaria (Chemoprophylaxis of
children under five, and adult self-treatment); diarrhea (through health
education of mothers in the correct use of homemade oral rehydration
solutions); respiratory infections (through antibiotic therapy at health
centers); childhood diseases (through vaccinations at health centers);
complicated deliveries, pre- and postnatal problems and family planning
(through a referral system from the village to the district health center
level); tuberculosis and leprosy (through screening of suspected cases and
treatment of positive cases); malnutrition (through preventive education of
mothers); blindness (through surgical interventions against trichiasis and
cataracts); conjunctivitis (through self-treatment at the village level), and
guinea worm (through protection of wells). A summary of proposed
interventions, tasks and levels of responsibility is presented in Annex 3.
2.22      In contrast to previous primary health care demonstration projects
(1.12 - 1.16, 1.36), the proposed project is designed to provide these
services progressively first at the district health center, followed by the
subdistrict level, thereby assuring a credible capability prior to developing
primary health care at the village level. This strategy implies a gradual,
cumulative coverage of the population, averaging 12% annually, and reaching a
maximum effective coverage of 45% at the end of the project (about 5% are
effectively covered to date). First to be served would be the population
immediately covered by three health centers in the three districts, followed
by those covered by 21 subcenters. Thereafter, primary health care and
health education services would be extended to 112 villages within reasonable
access of health centers and subcenters (see Annex 4). Supervision of
district level services would be provided by the regional medical director;
the PCU, through its project manager based in Kita (para. 4.05), would
provide technical support. Subdistrict health centers would be supervised by
the district level medical officer; subdistrict nurses would supervise
village level activities. Subdistrict nurses would group together at the
health center for workshops pertaining to the organization and implementation
of the proposed health program activities.



- 22 -
Retraining of Field Staff
2.23      About 186 MOPHSA pe!rsonnel (6 physicians, 60 nurses, 3 certified
midwives, 21 rural midwives, 64 nursing assistants, and 32 auxiliary and
technical personnel) who currently provide services in the project zone would
be retrained in order to carry out the health programs as designed.
2.24      A project preparation advance has been provided to commence
inservice training of project: zone personnel prior to credit effectiveness.
The three district level physicians would improve their ski:Lls in surgery and
obstetrics during a six-month period in Bamako. All nurses would be
retrained in obstetrics and F[CH/FP at the Kita 'health, center over a two-month
period. Training sessions wcould be organized by the DNPFSS. At the start of
the project, the PCU and DNPFSS would organize an initial ten-day orientation
workshop for key administrative staff (3 medical officers, 3 certified
nurses, 3 first-cycle nurses, 3 midwives, 3 community development and
sanitary technicians, 3 accountarnts and 3 statisticians' of the district
health centers to review the health programs and training requirements of the
project. Basic literacy in the vernacular of the project zone would also be
introduced. Four training sessions, each of ten days' duration, would then
be provided to all district level personnel, with the objective of improving
their skills in accordance with the technical and managerial requirements of
the program desribed in para. 2.21. Subsequently, simi:Lar t-raining would be
provided to subcenter staff in eaLch district at the start of the project.
For the duration of the projeZct, refresher training and continuing education
would be provided to health center and subcenter personnel for a period of 12
days per year. All such inservice training sessions would be conducted at
the district health center. A te!am of trainers would be organized comprised
of a trainer from the DNPFSS, the Director of t'he PCU and the proposed
project zone coordinator, a representative of the national Directorate of
Public Heath, and specialists provided by the S,zhool of Med-icine and
Pharmacy, the Nurses' Training Schools and the 'National Cent-er for Community
Development. The project would provide training materials, transportation
costs and per diems. Forty-eight manmonths of technical assistance would be
provided to assist in implementing and evaluating the proposed health service
and training programs.
Construction and Equipment of HeaLlth Facilities
2.25      Because existing health facilities in the project zone are
ill-equipped, run-down and inappropriately designed, the project would
construct three replacement district health centers with 60 beds at Kita, and
48 beds each at Bafoulabe and Kernieba. Each center would provide
hospitalization, outpatient clinics, a maternity unit, opthamological and
dental units, pharmacy and refrigeration, radio communication, and community
health education and inservice training rooms.  One center would be provided
with x-ray equipment serving the entire zone. In addition, 18 replacement
and 3 renovated subeenter health facilities wouLd be provided (see Map IBRD
16998) and would include: examinLation and treatment rooms for both curative
and preventive health services; a delivery room; a basic laboratory with
microscope; pharmacy with refrige!ration; and radlio communication (solar



- 23 -
powered refrigeration and radio communication would be provided for about 10
isolated subcenters). To assist in supervision, the project would provide
the district health centers and subcenters with a total of 6 four-wheel drive
vehicles, 12 motorcycles, 15 motor bicycles and 18 bicycles, and finance
operating and maintenance costs. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that it would maintain adequate staffing of all project
health centers, operate all facilities appropriately, and ensure adequate
maintenance of all buildings, furniture and equipment provided by the
project.
Project Zone Drug Supplies
2.26      In order to assure an adequate supply of drugs at the 21 proposed
health centers and subcenters (pending the setting up of a new national drug
supply system), the project would provide an initial stock of drugs to each
of these facilities. Purchases would be made through UNICEF with the
objective of testing and developing a cost recovery system at these
facilities. The PPM would resupply these facilities in accordance with the
proposed pharmaceutical reform. MOPHSA will establish an initial payment
scheme for each day of hospitalization, deliveries and laboratory
examinations. The proposed Division of Pharmacy and Drugs would assist in
testing and evaluating the proposed scheme.
Village Level Health Education
2.27      As noted in paras. 1.12 - 1.16, village level primary health care
demonstration projects have been implemented in Mali with varying degrees of
success. The project would attempt to build on these experiences by
providing training of TBAs in monitoring pregnancies, referral of risk cases,
normal deliveries, family planning information, nutrition demonstrations and
malaria chemoprophylaxis. The project would also support the selection and
training of village health workers as has been attempted elsewhere in Mali.
However, MOPHSA has agreed that, unlike, for example, the Koulikoro
experience (para. 1.14), neither the village health worker model nor rural
matrons would be imposed upon the population. The selection and support of
village health workers and TBAs would be a community responsibility--training
would be provided at health centers and subcenters. A fund of US$200,000
would be provided for such training, and for innovative primary health care
activities. The fund would be managed by the PCU and audited annually.
2.28      The project would, in addition, support the local rural development
agency (ODIPAC) and the functional literacy agency (DNAFLA) in an attempt to
inculcate simple notions of primary health care, health education and the
protection and maintenance of water points provided by the proposed Rural
Water Supplies project. The proposed methodology for undertaking these
activities is presented in Annex 4. A functional literacy program has been
in operation for several years in the project area; DNAFLA has already
produced and tested prototype community health education and training
materials which would be developed further under the project. The



- 24 -
organizational structure of DNAFLA and its structural relationship with
ODIPAC are presented in Annex 1, C-3.
2.29      The project would finance incremental salaries and allowances for
20 existing DNAFLA field workers (sub-zonal chiefs) for a three-year period.
Basic training, salaries, allowances, materia]s and transportation would be
provided for six additional field workers needed to cover the project areai
effectively.  Annual inservice training seminars would be provided for all 26
field workers by national DNAFLA staff and health and wate!r subject matter
specialists. Inservice training would also be provided for about 140 ODI]'AC
agricultural extension agents, district and subdistrict health center staLf,
sanitation and community development technicians in the project area. They
would be trained in group dynamics, adult teaching techniques, and the use of
functional literacy for health education. Travel allowances would be
provided for DNAFLA specialist health and water subject matter specialist
staff to prepare teaching materials. Similar allowances, one four-wheel
drive vehicle and operating costs would be provided for supervision,
monitoring and evaluation by DNAFLA. Eight manmonths of advisory services
would be made available for the development of teaching materials and their
evaluation.
Monitoring, Research and Evaluation
2.30      As mentioned in para. 1.34, the DNPFSS would strengthen its role in
planning and evaluating health services. In addition to strengthening
planning (para. 2.14), the project would improve the DNPFSS's evaluation
capability first in the project zone by developing a reporting system based
on operational data on locations and numbers of population served, service!s
delivered, drug consumption and disease incide!nce. The DNPFSS would draw up
simplified data collection forms to be filled monthly by each health
facility, aggregated at the district level, and transmitted to MOPHSA at tlhe
regional and central levels. Five manmonths of technical assistance would be
provided to assist in designing and implementing the system. Evaluation
indicators are provided in Annex 1, T-7. A microcomputer would be provide!d
to the DNPFSS for data storage and analysis on the assumption that the system
would gradually be expanded to other regions cf the country. Four manmonths
of specialist assistance would 'be provided to set ul? the computer system.
Four manmonths of technical assistance would also be provided to assist the
DNPFSS to conduct midterm and final evaluations of the project.  At the enld
of the project, MOPHSA and i:he School of Medicine and Pharmacy would
undertake a follow-up epidemiological survey in the project area to measure
changes in health status. Evaluation design will take into account the
differences in health status, if any, in regions without adequate water
supply and the regions with water supply. Twelve manmonths of technical
assistance and operating costs would be provided to assist the MOPHSA to
undertake program evaluations, applied research in the effectiveness of
primary health care, and to assess the experimental payment for services
scheme. A summary of techni.cal assistance and consulting services, provicled
under the project is described in para. 4.02 and listed in Annex 1, T-13. A
similar list of vehicles is shown in Annex 1, T-14.



- 25 -
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
3.01           The total project cost inclusive of contingencies is estimated at
US$17.6 million equivalent net of taxes. The estimated costs and foreign
exchange components, given in Annexes 1, T-8 and T-9 are summarized as
follows:
Table 3.1
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(MF Million)             (US$ Million)         X of
-------------------------------------------Foroim   I of Total
Local  Foreigrn  Total   Local Foreigr Total Exchange Base Custs
A, NATIONAL LEVEL
TRAINING                                173.8   323.3    49,1    0. 2        0.4   0.7       65.0          4.8
PHARMACEUTITCAL                         154,3 1YS1,?7  1;973,9   0.2          2.4   2.6       92.2         19.1
STRENGTHENING
OF MOPSHA                           594,9 1403,.2  li?98.1   0.8         1.,9  2_7        70.2        19.3
Sub-Total NATIONAL LEVEL                   923.1 36546.1  41469.2   1.2          4.8   6.0       79.3         43.2
B. PROJECT ZONE ( NB;
HEALTH SERVICES                      3.474 t.9 1, 329.9  4Y804.9   4,7        1.8   6,4       27.7         46.4
VILLAGE HEALTH
PROMOTION                           232.6    98.9    331,C5   03          0.1   0.4        290.8        3,2
Sub-Total PROJECT ZONE ( NBKt  )         3.7.7..6 1428,8  5t136.4   5.0          1,9   6.9       277.6        49.6
C. REPAiYMENT OF PPF                       209.6   536.4    746.0   0.3          0?7   1.0        71.9        7.
Total PfASELINE COSTS                      4,840.2 5,511.3 106351.5   6.5           7.4  13.9       53,2       100.0
F'hvsical Carntingencles                  363.1   275.0    638.0   0.5          '.A   0.9        43.1         6.2 -
P rice Contingencies                    10483.9   648.9  2,132.8   2,0          0.9   2.9       30.4         20.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                        6Y687.2 60435.2 13,122.4   9.0           8.6  17.6       49.0       126.8
4/ Reflects result of computer averaging ranging from 10% physical
contingencies on civil works and equipment to 0% on studies, fellowships
and operating costs.



- 26 -
3.02      Cost estimates of civil works for health facilities are based upon
simple but functional preliminary designs prepared by MOPH'SA for cement
stabilized pressed earth brick construction, a relatively ILow-cost construc-
tion method that maximizes the use of available local resources (Annex 2).
The accommodation schedules are appropriate for the medical functions of the
health centers. The average, base cost per square meter (October 1983 -
Bamako) is estimated at abou.t $170 equivalent. This compares favorably with
unit costs of similar basic health facilities in Senegal of $300 (1982) and
with Mali public works cost estimates (Bamako) of $260 - $300 equivalent per
square meter for comparable conventional construction. In--patient accommo-
dation including maternity facilities represents about 40% of district health
center construction costs or about $3,500 equivalent per bed place. About
18% of the health center cost is, for staff housing and simple shelter for
patients' relatives. Housing for essential staff only will be provided at
health centers.  A total of 45 h,ouses will be provided ranging in area from
60 m2 for subdistrict nurses and matrons to 130 m2 for physicians in charge
of the district centers.
3.03      For unforeseen physical conditions, I0% has been added to the base
cost for civil works, equipment, architectural/engineering services, techni-
cal assistance and training.   Estimated price increases are based upon the
following annual percentage rates of price escalation from the base cost date
(October 1983) in accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex 1,
T-10).
Table 3.2
1983         1984         1985         1986-88
Construction
Foreign (%)                    8.0          7.5          7.0             6.0
Local (%)                     15.0         12.0         10.0            10.0
Other
Local and Foreign (%)          8.0          7.5          7.0             6.0
The estimated local price increases for construction are based on recent
trends and forecasts by the Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTTP).
These have been reviewed by Bank Group staff and found appropriate.
3.04      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component of
US$8.6 million equivalent or 49% of total project costs has been calculated
as follows: (a) civil works - 10%; (b) furniture and equipment - 85%;
(c) vehicles - 80%; (d) materials and supplies - 80%; (e) drugs - 80%;
(f) architectural/engineering services - 30%; (g) specialist services - 90O'7%;
(h) training - 10%; (i) fellowships - 85%; (j) Project Preparation Facilitylr



- 27 -
Advance - 70%; (k) studies - 60%; and (1) innovative activities - 40%. In
line with Government policies and practices, goods and services to be
financed from the Credit will be exempt from customs duties and taxes.
3.05      Financing Plan.  An IDA Credit of SDR 15.9 million (US$ 16.7
million equivalent) would represent 95% of the total project cost net of
taxes. The Credit would finance the foreign exchange costs and 90% of local
costs. The overall financing plan would be as follows:
Table 3.3
Financing Plan
Category                            US$ Million Equivalent
Govt.       IDA        TOTAL
1.  Construction                         -            5.5         5.5
2.  Equipment, Furniture, Vehicles
and Materials                      -            1.7         1.7
3.  Technical Assistance, Training
and Fellowships                    -            3.6         3.6
4.  Innovative Village Health
Activities                         -            0.1         0.1
5.  Project Preparation Facility         -            1.0         1.0
6.  Preinvestment Studies                -            0.7         0.7
7.  Operating Costs                      0.88         0.7         1.58
8.  Initial Deposit in IDA
Special Account                                 1.0         1.0
9.  PPM Drugs                            -            1.9         1.9
10. Initial Deposit in Local
Revolving Fund                     0.02          -          0.02
11. Unallocated                          -            0.9         0.9
TOTAL                                0.9         16.7        17.6
3.06      Projected Operating Costs.  As appraised, the incremental operating
cost of the district level services, in 1989 at the end of the project, is
estimated to be 209 million MF (US$280,000 equivalent), or 3% of the
projected health budget in 1989 of 6,481 million MF.5/ The incremental cost
associated with the national level components--field training of medical and
paramedical students, strengthening of the Ministry of Public Health, and
5/  Assuming 3.1% real GDP growth (the average from 1978 - 81) and a 6%
health sector share of current expenditure.



- 28 -
improved drug supply--would amount to 69 million MF, (US$92,000 equivalent),
or 1.0% of the projected operating health budget.  Tle incremental operating
costs are detailed in Annex 1, T-11. Incremental costs attributable to the
project are sustainable, although the project would raise the per capita
Government expenditure on health in the project: zone from current levels oi-
approximately 200 MF (para. 1.30) to about 500 MF (US$0.67 equivalent) in
1989. This level of expenditure would still be considerably below the
projected average national per capita health expenditure of about 800 MF, but
would represent a significant improvement in availability of resources for
health in the regions of Mali with the lowest health status and level of
services. The issue of replicability, therefore, will not arise until
services are improved and extended further in this area.
3.07      The proposed finanzing plan (Table 3.3) is designed, through
Categories 7 and 10, to ensure that the Government begins to support incre-
mental operating costs durin,g the life of the project, by providing IDA
financing of operating costs on a declining percentage basis so that the
Government would assume the incremental operating cost financing during the
final year of the project. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that the funds required to sustain project activities after
project completion would be included in the nat:ional budget for the fiscal
year beginning January 1989.
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
3.08      To date, the Government has made full use of two PPF advances
totalling US$535,000 equivalent. These two tranches (apprcved in July 1980
and March 1982) were spent to set up a MOPHSA planning directorate (DNPFSS),
to prepare the project up through appraisal. These activities included
technical assistance and logistical support, epidemiological and other
surveys, pharmaceutical studies and other investigations. The Bank recentLy
approved the Government's request for a Third lranch,e totalling US$465,000
equivalent for project start-up activities. These expenditures, totalling
US$1 million, are included in the overall cost of th,e project.
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMT, DISBURSEM(ENT AND AUDITING
Implementation
4.01      The project would be implemented over a period of five and one half
years. The project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1989 with a
closing date of March 31, 1989.  The largest e:Lement of the program, health
center construction, is expected to start shortly after credit effective-
ness. An implementation schedule is attached as Annex 1, T-10. Preliminary
project implementation is underway and includes soils testing; detailed
architectural planning; the selection and training of masons in stabilized
earth construction; initial inservice training of health workers; establish-
ing the mechanics of a PPM revolving fund; and setting up of a Project
Coordinating Unit.



- 29 -
4.02      Technical Assistance.  To the greatest extent possible, the project
would rely on Malian expertise to provide specialist assistance for the
effective implementation of the various project components. At the same
time, the MOPHSA recognizes that certain critical skills required by the
project are still in extremely short supply in Mali, and has therefore
requested that the project provide 197 manmonths for advisory services (191
foreign, 6 local) to be utilized in the following manner: for manpower
development, specifically strengthening basic and inservice public health
training and education, 34 manmonths; for assistance to the MOPHSA and the
PPM to implement the reforms in the pharmaceutical sector, 38 manmonths; to
strengthen the MOPHSA's capability in health planning, 8 manmonths; for
assistance to the project coordinating unit, 23 manmonths; for assistance to
improve the health education services, 3 manmonths; for advisory services for
the improvement of health services delivery and primary health care
development on the regional level, 48 manmonths; for the development of
health-related literacy materials, 8 manmonths; and, to set up a health
service reporting system and for research and evaluation, 25 manmonths. It
is the intent of the Government to restrict recruitment of consultant
services to specialists who have proven capability to work effectively in the
sub-Saharan African environment and who have the skills to proficiently
transfer technology and knowledge to their counterparts. A total of 16.5
manyears of technical assistance is provided through the project at an
average cost of US$120,000 per year for expatriate consultants.
Organization and Management
4.03      As noted in para. 2.15, MOPHSA would establish a Health Development
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), attached to the Office of the Minister of
Health, which would be responsible for coordinating all parties involved in
project implementation. An organization chart is shown in Annex 1, C-4. In
addition to ensuring continuous relations with IDA and external technical
assistance, the PCU would work through existing line agencies, (including
ODIPAC, the Directorate of Hydraulics and Energy (water supplies) and the
Ministry of Transport and Public Works), within and outside MOPHSA iLn charge
of implementing various components of the project. The PCU would monitor
project costs and expenditure, keep project accounts, and, in collaboration
with MOPHSA's existing Administrative and Financial Unit (Annex 1, C--1),
authorize all project expenditures. A condition of credit effectiveness
would be the appointment of a consultant to assist MOPHSA in setting up and
implementing an appropriate project accounting system.
4.04      The following key full-time staff would be appointed to the PCU:  a
Director (who should have substantial experience in health administration,
and whose post would be permanent); a Deputy Director (para. 4.05); a Chief
of the Administration and Accounting Division; an Accountant; a Chief of the
Division of Studies and Technical Control; a Studies Section Chief; and a
Chief of the Technical Control Section. The project includes 9 manmonths of
management assistance to support the activities of the PCU; 4 manmonths of
technical assistance for preparation of equipment lists, for assistance to



- 30 -
the purchasing service of MOPHSA for local purchases and for the procurement
of furniture.
4.05      Regarding the implementation of the district level primary health
components, a district level Local Project Coordination Uni:t (LPCU) would be
created under the PCU and located in Kita.  The LPCU would be staffed by the
deputy director of the PCU, a fu1ll-time coordinator of village health and
water education  programs, an office administrator and an accountant.  The
project would provide about 4 manyears of technical assistance in public
health management support tc the! district level through the LPCU, together
with office facilities, 2 vehicles, radio communication and operating costs.
The establishment of the PCU and LPCU, including the appointment of key
staff, is a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.06      Construction Program.  Apart from the provisiLon of project facili-
ties, as a secondary objective the construction program is expected to
promote the development of a. nunmber of local artisans to small scale
contractor status by the end of the project period.  In all, a total of 18
construction "teams" consisting of six masons plus two brick makers and
laborers will be formed and given on-the-job training d[urirng employment on
the construction of project facilities. These comprise 3 replacement
district health centers and 18 subdistrict heaLth centers for a total area of
about 22,000 m2 and will be constructed over a period of about four and one
half years.
4.07      For the design and construction of project facilities, the Mali
Government has decided to employ the services of the Association for the
Development of Traditional African Urbanism and Architecture (ADAUA), a non-
profit international architectural/engineering association.  This group
specializes in construction forms that maximize the use of locally available
building materials and promotes development of skills to construct low-cost
but durable facilities. ADAUA has successfully developed a low-cost stabi-
lized earth brick construction technology in Mauritania and Upper Volta over
several years. During 1982, the Government signed a protocol agreement
establishing ADAUA in Mali.  MOFHSA has been authorized by the Ministry of
Transportation and Public Works (MTTP) to enter into a contract with ADAUA
for the design and construction of project facilities in accordance with
ADAUA's technology. The work will be undertaken in two separate phases as
follows:
(a)  Pre-construction phase.  To permit a maximum degree of readiness
for construction prior to credit effectiveness, Ea PPF advance is
being used to finance Phase I (pre-construction) which includes:
the preparation of standardized designs and cost estimates for
district and subdistrict level health centers; site surveys and
soils testing; and the training of s:ite supervisors and masons plus
the provision of equipment for this training.  The Government has
signed an agreement with ADAUA on terms and conditions acceptable



- 31 -
to the Association to undertake this first phase. Standardized
plans will be submitted to IDA for review. In addition, the
Government has provided funding for a small housing project in
Bamako to be undertaken by ADAUA that will be used for demonstra-
tion purposes and for on-the-job training of masons and brick
makers. Skilled masons from Kita, Bafoulabe and Kenieba districts
have already been selected for training starting December 1983 and
will form the nuclei of 18 construction "teams" that will undertake
construction of project facilities (para. 4.06).
(b) Construction Phase II. ADAUA will prepare a work program for this
phase which will detail inter alia, the planned phasing of con-
struction activities, construction worker training and supervision,
anticipated employment including proposed rates of payment to
construction workers and planned output. This work program will
serve as a basis for the negotiation of an agreement with ADAUA as
principal agent for the execution of the construction phase.
Negotiations will be undertaken by MOPHSA and MTTP with the
assistance of the Bamako Centre des Technologies Adaptees (CETA), a
UNDP-assisted technology research department operating within the
MTTP. MOPHSA will be required to provide satisfactory details to
the Association of the basis for cost estimates for the
construction phase together with satisfactory procedures for
payment and verification and for monitoring of construction
activities. A detailed construction program was completed prior to
negotiations. The appointment of ADAUA on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association to undertake the construction phase
would be a condition of effectiveness.
4.08      It is expected that under the terms of their agreement with MOPHSA,
ADAUA will have principal responsibility for the planning and execution of
the construction and training programs and the construction "teams" (para.
4.06) which will perform as contractors receiving payment only for work
performed to acceptable standards. ADAUA staff will provide the contractors
with instruction throughout the project period on basic management skills
including simple accounting, pricing and equipment maintenance. This is con-
sidered an essential approach towards the secondary objective of creating
self-sufficient contracting units. The MTTP would have overview
responsibility for verifying construction progress and for the certification
of ADAUA's payment requests. During negotiations the Government provided
assurances that not later than March 31, 1984, an expert whose qualifications
and experience shall be satisfactory to the Government and the Association
would be assigned on a full-time basis within the Centre des Technologies
Adaptees to expedite this work, to prepare not later than June 30, 1985 plans
for minor upgrading work at three existing health centers, and to coordinate
the site selection process.
4.09      ADAUA will employ stabilized earth brick construction.  As most of
the heavy materials are available in-situ, costs and problems associated



- 32 -
with transportation are minimized. An arch dome form will be used that
requires relatively low level skills and is simple to construct. This form
permits the use of bricks for the roof as well as the walls and the
construction principle is well suited to the relatively short spans (up to 4
meters) required for the proposed health facilities. The relatively heavy
thermal mass of the construction offers good protection against the very high
daytime temperatures encountered in the project zone, ia feature that is
important for health facilities.
4.10      Site Selection.  The availability of land for construction is not
expected to cause difficulties; however, the identification of building sites
is closely linked to availability of a year-round supply of water within the
vicinity of each health center. On this basis, only tlhe Kita district healtlh
center site which has already been identified and. which will be serviced from
a town water supply is available for construction. Identification of the
remaining sites is expected to begin in Kita district in early 1984 and to be
completed in Bafoulabe and Kenieba during late 19I84, in conjunction with a
drilling program under the proposed IDA-assisted Rural Water Supplies Project:
(Appraisal Report No. 4402-MlI). Nevertheless, irrespective of the proposed
Rural Water Supplies Project, during negotiations the Government provided
assurances that prior to the commencement of construction of each health
center and subcenter, the Government would furnish to I[DA satisfactory
evidence that: (a) all such land and rights in respect of land acquired for
the construction and operation of such facilities has been acquired; and
(b) all such land has permanent water supply required for construction and
operation of these facilities.
4.11      Procurement.  Contracts for equipment, furniture, materials and
vehicles totalling US$1.3 million equivalent including contingencies, would
be procured internationally fo:Llowing international competitive bidding
procedures (ICB) in accordance with IDA's guidelines for procurement.
Wherever possible, purchases of medical equipment and drugs would be made
following UNICEF's international procurement procedures as a means of
expediting procurement and lim:Lting costs. Otherwise, drugs would be
procured through international competitive bidding, except where there is
only one existing supplier. In such instances, drugs nay be purchased
directly from such suppliers with prior agreement from the Association.
Contracts for furniture, equiptment, materials and vehicles costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent each (total vqlue including contingencies US$250,000
equivalent) would be awarded following competitive bidding advertised locally
and in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
4.12      Contracts for the minor construction works associated with
upgrading of three existing health centers, and the construction of a
Planning and Documentation Ceniter (estimated to cost less than US$60,000
equivalent each but in the aggregaite not expected to exceed US$200,000
equivalent, including contingencies) would be awarded f'ollowing local
competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA. International and local
competitive bidding procedures are not considered appropriate for the
construction of health center iaci:Lities estimated to cost US$6.5 million



- 33 -
equivalent including contingencies for the following reasons: (a) the
program will require and will develop intermediate technology skills that
currently are not readily available within Mali; (b) the project area poses
major difficulties in accessability and the majority of the facilities are
small (700 m2) and scattered over a wide area and would in most cases
normally be expected to require force account procedures; (c) the
construction program would promote the development of small contractors and
require considerable inputs of specialist technical assistance for on-the-job
training during implementation. This work will be undertaken by ADAUA as
prime contractor with responsibility for establishing and employing building
teams from the project zone on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(paras. 4.07 - 4.08).
4.13      Architectural sketch designs, negotiated construction procedures,
draft tender documents and master lists of furniture equipment and vehicles
would be reviewed by IDA. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable
to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement. Civil works
contracts costing more than $100,000 and contracts for vehicles, furniture
and equipment costing more than US$50,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA
review of procurement documentation prior to award. This is expected to
result in coverage of about 90% of the total estimated value of construction
contracts and about 80% of goods contracts. Where ICB procedures are used,
domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin
of preference of 15% or the existing applicable rate of duties, which ever is
lower over the c.i.f. prices of competing foreign suppliers. }
4.14      Disbursements.  Funds from the Credit would be disbursed according
to the following schedule:



- 34 -
Table 4.1
Amount of             % of
Credit           Expenditure
Allocated            to be
Category                          (IJS$ equiv.)        Financed
(1)  Civil works.                                 5,500,000           100%
(2)  Equipment, furniture, vehicles,
and materials.                               1,700,000           100%
(3)  Technical assistance:
(a) Consultants' fees                        2,700,000          100%
(b) Training                                   300,000
(c) Fellowships                                600,000
(4)  Training and materials under
Part B (e) (iii) of the Project.               100,000           100%
(5)  Studies                                        300,000           100%
(6)  Incremental Operating costs, including
drug for Part B of the Project                 700,000          95% ini-
tially de-
clining to
30% toward
end of
project.6/
(7) Drugs under Part A (b) (i) of
the Project.                                 1,900,000          100%
(8)  Initial deposit in Special Account           1,000,000
(9)  Refunding of Project Preparation Advance  1,000,000              100% of
amounts
disbursed
under the
advance.
(10) Unallocated                                    900,000
16,700,000
6/  (a)  IDA financing plan for this category is as follows:  95% until total
disbursements reach the equivalent of US$400,000; 60% thereafter until
total disbursements reach $600,000 equivalent, and 30% thereafter.  (b)
Government counterpart contribution is as follows: Years 1 - 3
(US$75,000 per year equivalent); Year 4 ($125,000); Year 5 ($200,000);
Year 6 ($325,000).



- 35 -
Disbursements would be fully documented for all categories. Disbursements
for miscellaneous operating costs (Category 6) would be made upon
presentation of certified statement of expenditures. The Government should
retain all disbursement requests and supporting documents which will be
reviewed during the course of supervision missions. The disbursement
schedule is shown in Annex 1, T-12; it is based on the country disbursement
profile for Mali. The PCU would operate under Government financial
procedures and its staff would include an accountant (para. 4.04) who would
maintain the necessary documents and records according to procedures
acceptable to IDA.
4.15      Revolving Funds.  Because the Government is expected to have
difficulty in pre-financing expenditures to be reimbursed under the IDA
Credit, an IDA-financed special account of US$1.0 million equivalent would be
established for all items eligible for IDA disbursements except those which
IDA would disburse directly. The Bank Group would replenish the account upon
receipt of evidence of disbursements from the fund for eligible
expenditures. The Government would be responsible for replenishing the
account resulting from any payment being unacceptable to IDA. An account
acceptable to IDA would be opened in the Banque de Developpement du Mali for
the purpose of establishing the proposed IDA financed revolving fund. The
Government will also open a local project account of FM 12.5 million
(US$17,000 equivalent) to finance Government counterpart expenditures. This
would be replenished every quarter as necessary and would be established
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The opening of both accounts
would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit.
4.16      Accounting and Auditing.  The Project Coordinating Unit would
establish and maintain account records in accordance with accpeted accounting
practices for all project expenditures. Unaudited financial statements for
all project accounts should be submitted to IDA within three months of the
end of the fiscal year. During negotiations, the Government should provide
assurances that (a) it would have the Special Account, the Project Account,
the Pharmaceutical Account, and all other accounts in respect of the Project
for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors to be appointed on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA, and (b) furnish to the Association, as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, a certified copy of the audit report by such auditors. The
estimated cost of such auditing is US$105,000 equivalent and is included in
the proposed Credit.
4.17      Reporting and Project Review.  Semi-annual implementation progress
reports should be submitted to the Bank for review within one month of the
periods ending March 31 and September 30. Midterm and final reviews of the
project would be jointly undertaken by the Government and IDA. Not later
than six months after the Project Closing Date, the MOPHSA should provide to
IDA a report evaluating the execution, initial operations, costs and benefits
of the project, the performance of the Government and IDA as well as the
lessons learned during project implementation.



- 36 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01      The proposed project is in accordance with health sector priority
needs, and would support the Government's attempt to improve existing systems
while developing primary health care at the village level. Specifically, the
project is expected to yield significant benefits to the population of over 7
million by 1987 in the following ways:
Manpower Development
(a) improving the relevance and content of basic training in support of
primary health care for about 50 students of medicine, pharmacy and
dentistry annually, 180 students of nursing, midwifery and allied
technical fields, and 25 students of commtnity development;
(b) promoting greater teamwork among doctors, nurses, midwives and
other support staff by exposing them to group training under field
conditions;
(c) improving the skill and performance levels of about 190 MOPHSA
medical and paramedical staff currently employed in the western
region;
Cost Savings
(d)  improving the supply and utilization of basic drugs, through more
cost effective purchasing at lower cost to the consumer, prescriber
and consumer education, and through the development of an
appropriate cost recovery system;
(e) strengthening MOPHSA's capability in management, planning,
implementation and evaluation with a view toward more effective use
of resources;
(f)  high incidence of acute diarrhea and gastrointestinal illnesses
caused principally by poor sanitation, hygiene and contaminated
water account for 30% of hospital admissions and are a heavy burden
on the public health budlget. Treatment of these diseases at
community level and their prevention through health education in
the project zone will help reduce the financial burden on the
public health budget.
(g)  providing about 1,500 manyears of employment and incomes ranging
from US$600-1,800 per year to skilled pers,ons engaged in the
construction program. Most masonry work teams are expected to
remain together, and may be employed as required on future



- 37 -
construction projects of this nature as fully independent artisanal
contractors. The diffusion of stabilized earth low-cost
construction techniques would benefit the economy considerably; and
Equity
(h) providing improved primary health care, family planning and health
education services to about 465,000 persons in impoverished areas
of western Mali, 240,000 of whom would benefit from active
detection and treatment outreach programs.
5.02      The above measures are expected to reduce infant mortality below
the current level of 255 per 1,000, and maternal mortality below 1,000
maternal deaths per 100,000 births, particularly in the project zone.
Incidence of malaria, diarrhea, acute respiratory infection and tetanus are
also expected to decline as project inputs are put in place.
B. Risks
5.03      The proposed project has two major risks relating to recurrent
costs and management ability of the MOPHSA which affect primarily the
district level health services.
5.04      First, although every effort was made to design the project with
the lowest possible incremental recurrent cost, any ongoing service delivery
component will necessarily imply some recurrent cost. If the Government
should prove unable to meet these incremental recurrent costs, the level of
service provided at project health facilities will be less than optimal, and
health benefits will be adversely affected. Outreach activities would be the
first to be cut back, in view of the vehicle operating costs they entail;
this would reduce the number of direct beneficiaries and consequently, the
health benefits obtained by the project. This risk will be reduced by the
gradual introduction of cost recovery for drugs, thus freeing resources for
other operating costs and by measures to improve the planning of health
investments and attendant recurrent cost.
5.05      Secondly, MOPHSA's experience in the management of projects has
been fairly recent and untested in its ability to coordinate a large-scale
development project. Such a risk to this project has been reduced by the
Government's decision to use the project preparation process as a means of
developing project planning and management capability. This capability would
be further strengthened by the creation of the proposed Project Coordinating
Unit at the national level, and its regional implementation arm at the
district level. Architectural work is advanced. An experienced NGO would be
hired to oversee construction. Similarly, technical assistance would be
provided to help coordinate difficult components related to curriculum
reform, management of drug supplies, and the delivery of primary health care
service.



- 38 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements
6.01      During negotiations, the Government of the Republic of Mali gave
assurances that:
(a)  with respect to the PPMI, appropriate measures including those
specified in para. 2.11 would be undertaken to:  (i) open and
thereafter maintain a P'harmaceutical Account; (ii) furnish to the
Association and thereafter implement a plan of action for
strengthening the managment of PPM; and (iii) furnish to the
Association and thereafter implement a five-year PPM investment
plan (para. 2.11);
(b)  MOPHSA would, not later than June 30, 1984, establish and
thereafter maintain a Division of Pharmacy and Drugs within
MOPHSA's Inspectorate of Public Health andl Social Affairs, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association ("para. 2.12);
(c)  by December 31, 1984, MOPHSA would: (i) adopt an essential drug
list, drug formulary and standardized treatment manual; and
(ii) present to the Association for its review and comaments a study
on the effectiveness of its reform of the pharmaceutical sector, to
be followed by similar studLies and reviews no later than December
31 of each year thereafter (para. 2.13);
(d) by December 31, 1984, it would establish and thereafter maintain
within DNPFSS the following full-time positions and hire the
following personnel to fill such positions: (i) a statistician;
(ii) a health planner; (iii) a training specialist; and (iv) an
evaluation specialist. By December 31, 1987, the Government would
submit to the Association for its review and comments preinvestment
studies mentioned above, and, not later than Decembr 31, 1988,
furnish to the Association a plan of action for the implementation
of the recommendations emanating from these studies (para. 2.14);
(e)  it would maintain adequate staffing of all project health centers,
operate all facilities appropriately, and ensure adequate
maintenance of all buildings, furniture and equipment provided by
the project (para. 2.25);
(f)  the funds required to sustain project activities after project
completion would be included in the national budget for the fiscal
year beginning January 1989 (para. 3.07);
(g)  not later than March 31, 1984, an expert whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Government and the
Association would be assigned on a full-time basis, within the
Centre des Technologies Adaptees to: (i) verify construction
progress and certify ADAUA's payment requests; (ii) prepare not



- 39 -
later than June 30, 1985 plans for upgrading three existing health
centers; and (iii) coordinate the site selection process (para.
4.08);
(h) prior to the commencement of construction of each health center and
subcenter, the Government would furnish to the Association
satisfactory evidence that: (a) all such land and rights in
respect of land acquired for the construction and operation of such
facilities has been acquired; and (b) all such land has permanent
water supply required for construction and operation of these
health centers and subcenters (para. 4.10); and
(i) the Special Account, Project Account, Pharmaceutical Account and
all other accounts in respect of the Project for each fiscal year
would be audited by independent auditors to be appointed to the
Association, and that a certified copy of the audit report would be
furnished to the Association as soon as available, but no later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.16).
6.02      As conditions of effectiveness, the Government would: (a) appoint a
consultant to assist MOPHSA in setting up and implementing an appropriate
accounting system (para. 4.03); (b) establish the PCU and LPCU, including the
appointment of key staff (para. 4.04); (c) appoint ADAUA consultants on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA to undertake the construction of new
district and subdistrict health centers program (para. 4.07); and (d) open:
(i) an account in a local commercial bank for the establishment of the
IDA-financed special account, and (ii) an account for the establishment of a
local Project Account for Government counterpart financing (para. 4.15).
6.03      As a condition of disbursement of the IDA Credit allocated for the
purchase of drugs for the PPM, the Government would complete an initial audit
of the PPM's accounts and select PPM pharmaceutical management technical
assistance under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (para.
2.11).
Recommendations
6.04      With these assurances, the project constitutes a suitable basis for
an IDA Credit of US$16.7 million on standard IDA terms.



MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COMPARATIVE HEALTH STATUS INDICATORS FOR SUB-SAHARAN COUNTRIES WITH A GNP LESS THAN US$350
Crude                                                           Daily Per
Birth                           Infant                          Capita Calorie   % of Population
GNP Per    Rate Per   Annual Average   Mortality   Life Expectancy   Supply (% of              with Access to
Capita    1,000 Pop.  Growth of Pop.'/   Rate           at Birth (years)  Requirement            Safe Water
-(US$  1981  (1981)      (%) 1970-1081         (1981)        19831)            (1980)
Chad                   110          43            2.0              146              43                74                    26
Mali                   190          49             2.6             152              45                85                     9
Upper Volta            240          48            2.0              208              44                95                    25
Guinea                 300          47            2.9              163              43                77                    10
Sierra Leone           320          46            2.6              205              47                89                    12             0
Central African
Republic             320          43            2.3              146             43                 94                    16
Benin                  320          49            2.7              152              50               103                    21
Niger                  330          51            3.3              143              45                92                    27
1/  Rate of Natural Increase corrected for the effect of migration.
Source: World Development Report, 1983.
1A



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
T-2
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFFING NORMS FOR DISTRICT AND SUBDISTRICT HEALTH CENTERS
Level                                           Staff
District Health Center            1 general physician
I surgeon
3 certified nurses
1 midwife
1 anesthesiologist
3 first-cycle (auxiliary) nurses
1 health technician
1 sanitary technician
1 community development technician
1 dental technician
1 accountant
2 chauffeurs/mechanics
1 electro-radiology repair technician
1 matron
1 statistician
1 laboratory technician
1 secretary
3 trainers of trainers of village health
workers
Subdistrict Health Center         1 certified nurse
1 first-cycle (auxiliary) nurse
1 sanitary technician
1 matron
Source: MOPHSA.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
T-3
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HEALTH MANPOWER TRAINING INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
Course      Annual No.
School                Trainees            Enrollment   Duration    of Graduates
1. National School of   a. Doctors                    300        5 years          50
Medicine and           b. Pharmacists
Pharmacy               c. Dentists
2. Secondary School       a. Certified Nurses         276        3 years          85
of Health              b. Midwives
c. Sanitary
Technicians
d. Laboratory
Techn:icians
3. Point "G" Nursing    a. Auxiliary Nurses           270        3 years         95
School                    In-Hospital Care
- Obstetrics
- MCH/FP
- Pharmacy
- Laboratory
4. National Center for  a. SociaL Workers              65        4 years          25
Training in            b. Community
Community                 Development
Development               TechniLcians
Source: MOPHSA.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
T-4
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED TOTAL HEALTH EXPENDITURES, 1981
Amount in
Millions of
Mali Francs        % of Total
Ministry of Health (Public)            5,000                30
Foreign Aid (Investment)               2,700                16
Private Expense - Drugs                7,000                42
- Other               2,000                12
TOTAL                               16,700               100%
Expenditure in per capita - in MF    2,300
- in US$   3.08
Source: MOPHSA and mission estimates.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
T-5
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON HEALTH, 1972-82
(in millions of Mali francs)
Current:                   Personne'L Expenditure
Year    Personnel      Materials       Total          as % of Total
1972      966          1,191           2,156              44%
1973    1,085          1,162          2,247               48%
1974    1,251          1,210           2,461              51%
1975    1,426          1,321          2,748               58%
1976    2,509            408          2,917               86%
1977    2,639          1,486          4,125               64%
1978    2,812          1,939          4,751               59%
1979    3,058          1,678           4,751              64%
1980    3,597          1,011           4,736              76%
1981    2,903          2,023           4,926              54%
1982    2,997          2,029           5,026              60%
Source:  Data for years 1972-75 are budgeted excpenditures for public
health given in Table 8, Project Preparation Report, Part 1,
MOPHSA. Data for years 1976-80 are actual expenditures given
in Table 20, Mali - Recent Economic Developments, IMF Report
SM/81/216. Data for years 1981-82 are budgeted expenditures
given in Projet de Budget d'Etat 1982, Direction National du
Budget, Ministere des Finances et du Commerce.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
T-6
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DELIVERY OF PRIMARY AND SECONDARY HEALTH CARE
IN THE KITA-BAFOULABE-KENIEBA PROJECT AREA:
COMPARATIVE INDICATORS
Basic Data
Project Area                 Mali
Total area                            72,370 km2                1,240,000 km2
Total population (1980)               443,130                   7,000,000
Density per km2 (mid-1982)            6.12                      5.8
Rate of natural increase              2.7%                      2.8%
Crude birth rate                      50/1000 (1981)            49/1000 (1981)
Crude death rate                      23.4/1000 (1981)          21/1000 (1980)
Life expectancy at birth              33 (1981)                 45 (1980)
Infant mortality rate                 255/1000 (1970-79)        154/1000 (1980)
Child mortality rate                  149/1000 (1970-79)        132/1000 (1980)
Age Structure
0 - 4                               16.2%                     18.3%
5 - 14                              28.3%                     28.1%
15 and over                         55.5%                     53.6%
Population per physician              75,408 (1981)             25,560 (1977)
Population per nurse                  5,362 (1981)              2,380 (1977)
Per capita gross national product                               US$190
Source: World Development Report, 1983; and Epidemiological Survey for Project Zone.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
T- 7
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED EVALUATION CRITERIA AND MAJOR INDICATORS FOR
PRIMARY HEA'LTH CARE INTERVENTIONS
A. Level                                             Process Indicators
(Numbers of)
A.1  Village Level:            - 'Villages with health committees
- 'illages with functional literacy including
health education
- 'Village meetings with multisectoral develop-
ment agents concerning health
- Retrained TBAs
- Vlillage anti-malarial programs and persons
covered
- Vlillage pharmacies
- Anti-diarrheal programs
- M4others trained in diarrhea:L treatment
- Supervision visits
- Pregnancies followed-up
- Deliveries followed-up
- Family planning acceptors
A.2  Health Center Level:    - Centers involved in PHC
program, staffed, equipped and in
operation
- Personnel (re)trained and by category
- Supervision visits
- Mothers and children seeking- care
- Consultations/day/health cernter
- Minor surgery/day/health center
- P'atients referresd by health committees
- Platients referred by district health center
- Patients followed at prenatal clinics
- E'atients followed at under 5 clinics
- Persons immunized
- Patients screened for TB and leprosy;
diagnosed, treated and controlled
- Children followd up for nutritional
rehabilitation



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
r-7
Page 2
B.  Level                                         Outcome Indicators
(Epidemiological Survey)
B.1  Population Sample in    - Life expectancy
Kita, Bafoulabe        - Birth weight
and Kenieba: health   - Infant mortality
status indicators      - Child mortality
- Maternal mortality
- Growth curves (children 0-5)
- Age-specific morbidity in selected diseases
used as tracers, e.g.:
- conjunctivitis, skin ulcers (for water
supply improvements);
- birth weight--growth curves in children
0-5
- child mortality
- maternal mortality
B.2  Coverage Indicators      - Catchment areas of PHC programs conducted
from health centers and subcenters
B.3  Efficiency Indicators   - Quality performance indicators by type of
activity (e.g., number of diagnosed TB
cases, number of referred pregnancies,
number of referred dehydrated children).



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
T-8
MALI
HEALTH  DEVELOPNENT  PROJE:CT
PROJECT COST BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORIES AND YEARS
(MF million)
Total
Base  Costs  by  'Iear
(US$
1       2        3       4       5        MF    Million)
A. NATIONAL LEVEL
TRAINING                             170.6   114.7    76.1    60.2   75.4    497.1           0.7
PHARMACEUTICALS                    1,766.0   152.7       9. 7    35.8    9.7  1,973,9        2.6
STRENGTHENING
OF MOPSHA                         714+8   307.3   420.6   382.0  173.4  1,998.1          2,7
Sub-Total NATIONAL LEVEL              2,651.3   574.7   506+5   478,0  258.6  4Y469.2           6.0
B. PROJECT ZONE ( KBK )
HEALTH SERVICES                    1,012.8 1,061.3 1,498.6 1,039.6  192.5  4,804.9           6,4
VILLAGE HEALTH
PROMOTION                          32.6    95.5    77.2r   63,9   62.3    331.5          0.4
Sub-Total PROJECT ZONE ( KBK )         1,045.4 1,156.9 1,575.8 1,103,6  254.8  5Y136.4          6.9
C. REPAYMENT OF PPF                      746.0        -       -        -       -    746.0       1.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                     4,442.7 1,731.6 2,082,2 1,581.6  513.5 10F351.5         13.9
Physical Contingencies                  185.5   149.0   177,2   111.6   14.8    638.0          0.9
Price Contingencies                     199,9   370.5   696+2   664.3  201+8  2,132.8          2.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                     4,828.1 2,251.0 2Y955.7 2,357.5  730.1 13s122.4          17.6
Foreiin Exchange                     3,640.1   814.9   843,0   772.4  361.8  6Y435.2           8.6



- 49-                                                                                  ANE  1
T-9
MAL I
HEALTHF DEVELOP>~ETOT PROJECT
SUKSNARY COST BY  RJC   )EOTE   N   U CTIONAL CATSOirn-I
NATIONAL LE!.EL                        T>             -
1991420  RAAR9ALCVI2ALI    -29 909566    A:K   :01  ,L:   1o%t.'ll-I Z.    Ancurt
I, INVESThENT 0909
A.C2NSTROJS:ON
1. RUILDINC                                                               -                 -      00944',         :"<'i                                             y,, T:'04t
Physical Contiooencies-                                                                          19,291.4          .                                              Oiu         ,           .
Price Cooornoenc:.eo s                                                                           10,9-C                    
Sub-Totsl INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                         -                         26.&29,9       3,4,3,                                         ;.2aIO 9,2 1           2'I,
fo'-easor E;:chanse                                                    -                          2514            33,8                                                1        9,1   32008.7
2. lPGRAREING                                                             -                                                                                                             8j4O1       0  ,349.1
PouciContingencies                                                -          41040.0
Pr1ce Contingercies                                                    -          o3.140ul9 .0                                                                                         937,4~
Sob-Total INCLUDiING LONT:NBENCIES-                                                  60,501.2~                        4  '2100                                               9    1    9,337.4
Fo erunCharse                                                      -          5,9'2,9                                                                                              921.2
3. LDCAL COST FACTOR                                                      -                                              '-9  -                                     -10 0    B8,900,7
Ebouical Cootiosen,cies                                                -                                           7,7007-.   :0.                                                        0.
FPrce Cortirser~cies                                                   -47, .44                                                                                           I994    19.413.1
Sub-Tota31l 1L2D52   CONTINSENCIES                                                                                        a_2,313,9
Fcreiso E~chanse                                                       -                                            3..21 1,66,4
4. SITE DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                  K -    3C,?0,`                                      UN    19.0   30,0GB,"
Pbourcal Cortinaer,cres 5                                                                                           9109o 2,.9                                                            3,.
Price Contingencies                                                                      --                       -':a.1                                                             072
Soub-Total INCLUDINO CONTINDENCIEB                                                                                   439,248,0                  -                                      '.07,
Foreign ExOtfha ,-                                                                                                 ".  -,e                                                 91  1    3,737,4
Sob-Total CONSTRUCTION                                                        -         49,124.4       102.944,2       ,2906420,0                                           5n-~ ~ . u-,  10.0  335,055.7
Phssical Contirngencies                                                   -           4,118,4        10.294,4         32O0642.1.-                                          -,7J     J3      0,
Price ,ortrnoencies                                                       -          s390,1         13,391,3      9..,723--1 010,29.222
Sub-Total I1CLU.1IB CONTINGENCIES                                             -         60,501.0       120.62,9,       4,69,411,7                                       <   ~,   9.1  444.143.0
Foreign Exchange                                                          -                           2,501.4         430,390,0                 -                   -9 -23,    9.1   41.533.?
P. FURNITURE , EQUIPMENT , VEHICLES ,MATERIALS
00RNITE   EQIEN--                                                                                   31,599,o         0142.S'3,8             7,       -              3>,52,   10,0   57,475,2
VEHICLES AND 99RUC                                                         -         52,036.4      250,800',,         063,903.0         :1:.                  -      LI 242.1 0.0   48,424,2
INITIAL MATERIAL
AND SUPPLIES                                                                     2 5,381,6               -            ,304.0G         3,012,3              -      310608.4 10.0    3.160,2
INITIAL IRSODE                                                                                                         39.902,9                -                      93,959,9 00.0    3,995.1
Sub-Total F0RNITOJRE , EQUIPMENT ,VEHICLES ,MATERIALS                         -         72,912.9       222,406.7         771,130,2         19,595,4                  1 ,130,553.D 10.0  113.D55,4
Pho3sical Cootingencies                                                    -           7.41,2        2.24027           75,r13,3~         1,959.6                     1-3,05O,4  0.0          2.2
Price Contingencies                                                       -          10,937.2        30.2227,3         90,720.4          4.275,2              -      52,513.i  9,1  '13,264,6
Sub-Total INCLUDINS 9DNTINSENCIED                                                       93,092.0       349,924,6           22-, 96,4, 9    26.133,7               -1,39.1,119,2  9.1  126,?9l.9
Foreign EC:chasa5e                                                         -         '9.29:,2      225,962,1          2D2,130.2         21,29,7.-  1,209,290.2  9.:  :06,299.1
C. ARCHITECTURAL / ENGINEERING FEES                                           ---                                        179,423,3                 -              -     1D2,423,3 00.0   17,942.3
Physical Contio2eicies                                                     ---                                         17,9-12.3                -                    1 7.942,3  2.0          301
Price Contingencies                                                        -                 --                         7,75,4                  -              -     2,257,4  9,1    5,250.7
Sob-Total TNCLSEIND: CONTINGENCIES                                                                                       255,120,2                 -                    255,123.C9.1,  23,193.0
Forelroo Echangoe                                                          -                                            523--                                        25,223,3  9.1    6,332,5
D. TECHNICAL AIDISTANCEE. CONSULTANTS,
PELLOWSHIPS, TRA1NI4G
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                               o9993            3039             735'2             232,3            47.646,9               -  l,5Oe,7602,  10.0  051,076.:
EONSULTANTS                                                                -          3020----                                                                       o,5,         .0         0,0
FELLOWSHIPS                                                        75,925.1                  -      277,731.1          25.112.3                 -              -    373,912,4  3.3           0,0
TRAINING                                                          OI,6,.  7,256,0                                                       10363.4                -    195,154.0 10.2   19,515.4
Sub-Total TECHNICAL A5DIDTANCE, CONSULTANTS,
FELLOWASHIP-S, TRAINING                                           462,226.0         3s42821,0    1,l5I.307.2          11o,190,7         52,503.4               -   ,153,229,31 '9   171,01915
POvsicul Contiosencies                                         30,69u.!          30,176,4        87,352.2            0.192,9          5.858.3                    1710,091.5  0,0          0,0
Frice Cositrogenoies                                           91.509,5"         41.325~,3      247,246,2          20,09R,7          I0K.23.                     411.40119  7,1   290132,o
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                    593,091,7         436,322,7   1.405.906.1           146,392,4         p4,673,0                  2736,392,_,7  7.3  200.324,0
Foreiso, Exchange                                                 494,132,1         309.294,0   1.333,030,2            60,062.5         50,267,3               - , `.43,99,       .    6,5



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
T-9
Page 2
STJMMARY  COST BY PROJECT  EXPENDITIJRE  AND  FUNCTIONAL  CATEGORIES  (cont.)
NATIORML LEVEL                     PROJE.CT ZONE ( KBK i                                        Fhvsicl
___--- ------------------------------   ------------------------------                                     Contingeitcle
STREN6THENINO                   VILLAGE HEALTH REPAYMENT OF                  ---------------
TRAINING  PHARACEUTIC4LS   GF NOPSHA   HEALTH SERVICES   PROMOTIDN               PPF          Total       1     Aa,Lp
E. PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY
FIRST TRANCHE                                                          -                -              -                 -               -    261,099.9    261,099.9  0.0           0.0
SECOND TRANCHE                                                         -                -              -                 -               -    130,010.0    090,010.0  0.0           0.0
THIRD TRANCHE                                                          -                -              -                -                -    146,G89.7    346,889.7  0.0           0.0
Sub-Total PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                                    -                -              -                 -               -    745.999,6    745,999.6  0.0           0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                            -             -              -                 -               -    745,999.6    745,999,6  0.0           0.0
Foreigr Exchange                                                       -                -              -                 -               -    i36,437.6    536,437.6  0.0           0.0
F. PREINVESTMENT AND STUDIES
PREINYESTHENT FUNB                                                     -                -       77,215.0                -                -             -     77,285.0  0.0          0.0
STUDIES                                                                -                -      129,452.4                -                -             -    129,452.4  0.0          0.0
Sub-Total PREINVESTMENT AND STUDIES                                       -                -      206,737.5                 -               -             -    206,737.5  0.0          0.0
Price Cortingencies                                                    -                -       44,028.6                -                -             -     44,028.6  0.0          0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                         -                -      250,766.1                 -               -             -    250,766.1  0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchanse                                                       -                -      155,979.6                 -               -             -    155.979.6  0.0          0.0
0. REVOLVING FUND                                                         -      1,426,176.5              -                 -               -             -   ,426,176.5  0.0           0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                         -      1426s176.5               -                                                  1,426,176.5  0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                       -     1,426,176.5               -                 -               -             -  1.426,i76.5  0.0          0.0
H. INNOVATIVE ACTIVITIES                                                  -                -               -                -       91,040.B              -      91,040.1  0.0          0.0
Price Contingencies                                                    -                -              -                -        20,344.8              -     20,344.8  0.0          0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                         -                -              -                 -      111,385.6              -    011,305.6  0.0           0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                       -                -              -                -        47,05119              -     47,051.9  0.0          0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                              462,006,0       1,917,599.9   1,743,395,5       4,253,176.7        069,220.1    215,999.6  9,292,278.0  6.9  630,044.9
Phssical Contingencies                                            30,696.1          42,836.6      125,07.B        422,006.4          7,017.9             -    630,044,9  0.0          0.0
Price Contingencies                                               91.509,5          60,660.6      342,943.4      1,346,946.9        35,152.1              -  1,077,212,4  0.3  156,535.0
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                        593,091.7      2,021,097.1   2,212,226.7       6,022,930.1        212,190.1    715,999.6 11,007f535.3  6.7  794,579.9
Foreign Exchange                                                 404,137.1      1.901,835.4  1700,074.0         1,356.375.8       :24,616,9    536,437.6  60111,477.7  5.2  307.277.4
11. RECURRENT COSTS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
HEALTH FACILITIES
OPERATING COSTS                                                       -                -              -        251,373.6                -             -    251,373.6  0.0          0.0
SALARIES, FEES
ALLOWANCES                                                            -                -     146,601.0                 -        79,750.9              -    226,35C.9  0,0          0.0
TRAVEL / PER DIENS                                                5,756.6          22,096.4        1,353.2         25,302.9          9,021,6             -     63,710.8  0.0          0.0
SUPPLIES AND
MISC. MATERIALS                                                       -                -              -          1,865.3         3,600,6              -      5,474,0  0.0          0.0
VEHICLE OPERATION
AND MAINTENANCE                                                       -        27,709.2        300437.2        140,339.6        69,917.4              -    310,403.4  0.0          0.0
MISCELLANEOUS                                                    28,461,0           6,444.0       26,313,0         27,365.5                -             -      80,503.5  0.0          0.0
DRUGS                                                                    -                               -        105,359.4                -             -    105,359.4  0.0          0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                 34,217.6         56,349.6      254,704.5        551,606.3        162,290.6             -  1.059.256.,  N.O           0.0
Price Contingencies                                                 7,202.4         10,310.9       53,746.7        141,095.4         42,443.9             -    255,599.3  0,0          0.0
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                         41,420.1         66,660.5      30B,51.2         693,501.7        204,742.5             -  1,314,055.9  O,0           0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                          -                 -              -       323,691.7                -             -    323,691.7  0,0           0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                  497,103.7      1.973!949.5   1,990.100.0       4,804,163.0        331,510.7    745,99,6 10,351,534.5  6.2  6380044.9
Phosical Contingencies                                              38,696.1         42!,36.6      125,007.8        422,006.4          7,017.9             -    638,044.9  0.0           0.0
Price Contingencies                                                 98,711,9         70,971.5      396.690,2      1,488,842.3         77,595.9             -  2,132,811.8  7.0  126,535.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                   634,511.7      2.087,757.6   2.520.67S.0       6.716,511.7        416,9732,6    715,999.6 132122,391.,  6,0  794,5.9.9
Foreign Exchange                                                  404.137.1       1.901,835.4   1,7880074.8       1,680,067.6        124,616.9    536,437.6  6,435.069.4  4.9  317,277.4



MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year O        Year 1        Year 2        Year 3       Year 4         Year 5        Year 6
Appointment of consultants (Phase I)                                              X
Soils survey                                                                       XXXX
Preparation of sketch plans, IDA review                                           XXX
Training of 18 masons, 12 bricklayers  (Bamako)                                             XXX DX
Preparation of construction program                                                   XXX
Preparation of detailed plans, specs.                                                       XXXXX
Appointment of consultants (Phase II) and construction contract negotiations                   XX)
Construction Program                                                                              ii
1)  KITA CERCLE                                                                                   i;
(a)  District Health Center                                                                   XRXXXXXX KXXXXXXXXXXJ  XXXRRRRRRR R
(b)  Subdistrict Health Centers (7)                                                                         XXXXXXXXXXXXX             XXXXXXXXRR RRRR
2)  BAFOULABE CERCLE                   (                                                                      j                                                               E I  X
(a)  District Health Center                                                                           XXXDOOXXXXJMXXX     X XXXRRR RRR 
XX XXXXXXX)  xXXXXXXXRRRRRRR
(b)  Subdistrict Health Centers (6)                                                                                XXXXXXXXXXXXXX   XXXXXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXXRR   RRR
3)  KENIEBA CERCLE                                                                               bi                                                                          v
(a)  District Health Center                                                                                     XXXXXXJXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXRRRRRRRI                          to  e
(b)  Subdistrict Health Center                                                                                             XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXX   RRRRRR- | 
0
4)  Student Accommodation, Upgrading at Existing Centers
(a)  Kits                                                                                                          PPPP B/AXXXXXXRRIRRRRR 
(b)  Bafoulabe                                                                                                             PPPPB/AX  XXXXRRRRRRRR                        a)
(c)  Kenieba                                                                                                                    PPPP B/AXXXXXXRRR RRRRRR                      Lo
5) DNPFSS Facilities
(a)  Planning Directorate                                                                                          PPPP B/AXXXXXXXX
(b)  Documentation Center                                                                                          PPPP B/AXXXXXXXX
Key,
PPP - (Preparation of Plans)
B/A - (Bid an Award)
XXX - Construction
RRR - Retention Period
March 1984 expecte4 credit effectiveness date.
I
Source: PHN staff.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
T-11
MALI
HEALThI DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS, YEAR 6: NATIONAL LEVEL
Deltailed Cost Table
(MF '000)
Guantitu                                  Base Costs                  Phi.
-------------------------Unit  -------------------------------------Cont. For.   Grossi   Susmary
Unit  6   7   8   9  10  Total Cost    6             7    8    9    10   Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Account
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A.PHARMACY DIVISION
1. VEHICLES
REPLACEHENT COST
(3 YEARS AMORT)                    -        -    -    -    -  -       7.898.0    -    -    -    -  7.898.0            0  0.65           0      VON
OPERATION I
MAINTENANCE                         -       -    -    -    -  -        5,676.0    -    -    -    -  5v676,0            0  0.65          0      VON
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                           13,574.0      -          -    - 130574.0
2. SUPERVISION                            -        -    -    -    -  -          550.0    -    -    -    -    550.0           0  0.65           0    PERD
3. OPERATING EXPENSES                      -   -   -   -   -        -                                           1,200  11320.0  0  0.65        0    OPEX
Sub-Total PHARMACY  DIVISION                                                    15,444.0    -    -    -    - 15,444.0
Bo PROJECT COORDINATING TJNIT
1. VEHICLE DP/
KTNCE/REPL                             -                                  6,981.0      -    -    -    -  6,981.0          0  0.65           0      Vor
2. SALARIES                                -                                    2 -   -   -  -  9,240.0        ,940.0         0  0,65          0      SAL
3, OPERATING EXPENSES                      -       -   -   -   -    -         19320.0    -20,0                                0  0.65          0    OPEX
Sub-Total PROJECT  COORDINATING  UNIT                                           17.541.0      -    -    -    - 17,541.0
C. NATIONAL TRAINING CONPONENT
1. FIELD INTERNSHIPS                      -        -    -    -      -       19.914.0      -    -    -    - 19,914.0          0  0.65           0      TRG
2, STUDENT SENINAR , BANAKO                                         -         9.662.0      -    -    -    -  9,662,0          0  0.65          0      TRG
3. SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR TRG                   -       -    -    -    -           6.000.0    -    -    -    -  6.000.0            0  0,65          0      TRO
Sub-Total NATIONAL TRAINING COMPONENT                                           35,576.0      -    -    -    - 35.576.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                               68561.0    -    -    -    - 68,561.0
======== =     =     =     =       8======5 =
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                 68.561.0    -       -    -     -68.561.0



- 53 -
MALI
BEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INCREMENTAL OPERATINC COSTS, YEAf 6
KITA, BAFOTLABE, KENIEBA                                                                      ANNEX 1
T-11
Detailed Cost Table                                                                      page 2
gudutiGo                      las,~~~~~h   CoalsPh.
- --            t  -------------- -                                   ot o   Boss   Ew.So
(6ot      o    7   a   9  1O  Total Colt       6       7    S    9    10    Totl       Rats  Ech, Ta  Rat. Accout
..     ........ ..  ... ........ .... ..                           .    .... ......... ..  . ..... ........ .......
1. RECURRERT COSTS
A, XIIA CENTER
9.  _11  .01
t. EQUIP hINCE
131 YEN YR)                                .    .    .    .   .             2,514,0    -    -    -    -    2,514,0        0  0,65        0       ED
2. BLDG MNtCE
(11 PER YR)                                .    .    .    .    .            4,013.0    -    -    -    -    4.81350  0         0.65       0      LWo
3. DRUGS
(701 Of IDS)
OFFICINE                                   .   .    .    .   .              7,108.0    -    -    -    -    7.10390  0          0.65      0      DRU
DISPENSAI                                  .    .    .    .    .               203.0    -    -    -    -       2030       0               0  D oR
Sub-lotl DRLGS
4700  P IDO )                                                                7,511.0    -         -    -    7,311.0
4. VEHlCLES
REPLA9ENENT COST
(5 YEARS AnT)                           .    .    .    .    .            1,2as 0    -    -    -    -    9.286.0       0  0.65         5      90
tENtICE DP
I  INCE                                                                  7,759.0    -    -    -    -    7,759,0       5 0.6   15         0  YO
S-Total YEHICLES                                                               17,045.0    -    -    -    -   17,045.0
5, OPERATINIG EXPENSES
(DRUM   REPL X S7)
OFFICINE                                   .    .    .    .                    355,0    -    -    -    -       355.0      0   ,0i5       0    OPEX
DIsPENsARYr..                                                                   10,0    - O             -        0.0      0  015         a      PENX
Sub-lotal 1PERATING EVPENSES
(iRUD REPL X 55)                                                              36540        - *          -      365.0
Sub-Total RITA CENTER                                                             32,0480                          32  .0
-. MAhINA CENTER I lAfOLLAiE I
1. EQUIP MTNCE
(31 PER rR)                                -    -    -    -    -            2,5140    -    -    -    -    2-514.0             0.65        0      Ea
2. BLDG nTNtE
(10 PER YR)                               -4,24,0    -    -    -    -    4.2410                                           *  0.65        0    iLDG
3. DR0s0
(700 OF IDS)
OFICENE-                                                                     4,61 0    -    -    -    - 44,681,0         0  0.62         0     DRU
DSiFENSARY                                 -0-   -   -   -                     20-  -                          203.0      0  0.63        0      DR0
Sub-Totl DRU3S
(70i Of IDS)                                                               4W1W4.0    -    *      -    -    4,* 4,0
4. ENICtiO
I0ACENE8T CDS1
(S TEARS NW)I                          .    .-.14t                                                        9,1416      9 19.63         4       0
UEKICLE BP
S  TItE                                                                 10,494,      . *             -      494.0     0                     E,65  0 
Sub-lotsl VEHICLES                                                             19,642.0                        19,042.0
5. DPERAIINO EXPENSES
(DRUG REPL X IS)
OFFICINE                                   .234.0    -    -    -    -                                          2340       0  0,65        0    OPEX
DISPENSARY                                 .    .    .                          t0.0    -    -    -    -        t0.0      0  0.65         0    EPEI
Stb-lotal OPERATINO EXE45NES
(DRUG REFL X 57)                                                              24,0                      -      244.0
5,-Total1 41H49 CENTER I f4fOULA3E 4                                             31,525.0    *1-    *    -          ,525,0
C. KENIEO.A CENTER
1. EQUIP nINCE
(3; EER YR)                                .    .    .    .                 2,514.0    -    -    -    -    2.514.0        0  0,65        0 o     E
2 SLDD RINCE
(117  ER YR, -430                                                                       -    -    -    -    43,436.      0  0.65         o    KING
35 DRWs3
(700 Of IDS)
OFFICINE                                                                     2.7010    -    -    -    -    2,70100        0  0.65         0     DRU
DISPENSAR                                 -    -203.0    -    -    -    -                                      205.0      0  0.45         0 O    RU
S.blotil DRWE
(701 Of IDS)                                                                 2.904,0                         2,904.0
4. VEhICLES
REPLACtEENT CDS1
(3     MS DT)                                                            9.0                              9,146,0         0.65        3 -0-
UEHICLE OP
I riNCE                                                                 10,4940                 -        10,494.0      0  0.165       0      909
t-TLotal VEHICLES                                                              19-642.0                    -   19I642,0
5. OPERATING EXPENSES
IDRUG REPL X 50)
SFFcltlE                                                                       135.0    *    -    -    -        135.0     0  0.65         D    GOEX
DISPENSARY                                                                      00.0 -   -   -    -              10.0     0  0.65         0    GOEX
u-Tol.a  tPERA9IN   ExPENSES
(DRUG REPL x 50)                                                               145.0               -    -       450
Eutl-otul NENIEBA CENIER                                                          24,441.0    -     -    -    -    9,641.0



- 54 -
ANINEX 1
12-113
D. DISIRICT HEALTN PSTS
1. R1t HEALTH POST I
HOUSI41 QUARIERS
DRUGS
(701 O     s)                                          -                      5I4S.)       -    -    - --45,4800               0  065          0      ORu
OPER4TIN8 EXPENSES
(IGREPL I 5)                              -    -    -      -    -               274.0              -               274.0       0  0.05          0    OPE0
EQUIP MTNIE
(l PKR IR)                                         _                             122.0    -    -    -    -          122.0      0  0.5          0      [a
PGS61 TtDii MlNCE
(it PER TR)                                                        -            870.0      -    -    -    -        S70.0       0  O.bS          0    6LG
WlUING RLKO NlNCE
(It PER YR)                                                                      3b4.0    -    -    -    -         364.0       0  0.b5         0      iLDG
Su-Tolta KiT WEALTH POST I
HOL1N8  4WTER5                                                                    7I110.O                            ,100
2. AMHII4 HELTH POST I
Wfl. .     _  _
(70   Of IDS)                                                                 3.104.0    -    -    -    -    3,184.0           0  0.05          0      iFu
WPERATINO EIPENSE
(DRUG REPL A 51)                                       -                         159.0    -    -    -    -          159.0      0  D.b5          0    OPEx
EQUIP RTICE
(31 PER YR)                                                        -             l22.0     -                        1-    -    -  22.0  0  0.65  0      Ea
POST BLOG MTNCE
(11 PER 1R)                                                                      Si0.0    -    -    -    -          970.0      0  0.65          0    81(00
HOLJINO1 lL 0i 910E
(1: PER TAI                               -4-                          -    -    -     -                           064.0       0  0.05         0    SL1G
Sub-Total nMI1A NaLTm POST A
HOIUSINi OURTEFS                                                                  4,699.0     -    -        -        4.b99.0
3. KERIETd H40EL POST I
4I01140 OLARTZERS
DRUGS
(701  O.8:Z.0                                                                              -    -    -    -    1.820.0         0  0.o5         0      DPu
OPERATING EXPENSES
(t0R       0 RE9L A SI                    -0                                               -    - -         -        91.0      0  0.b5          0    00EX
EQUIP MTNCE
(31 PER TR)                               -2.0    -    -    -    -                                                  122.0      0  0.65          0       ER
PO1 CKD ATNCE
(00 PER TR)                                 -   -   -   -    -                  8010.0                      -        70.0      O  0.65          0    iL11
GuSING0 BLODG TOCE
(12 PER YR)                                                                        4 -    -    -    -               004,2      0  (.05          0    61G
5.b-Total 6ENIE08 W4ELTH POST I
HOUSING, (RS                                                                       2,72.0             -       -    3,267,0
Stb-Total 00S0RtCT   THEGLT  POSTS                                                      (5.076,0    -    -    -    -   15,076,0
E. SUICENTERS
1. EQUIP MNOCE
(30 PER TR)                   iUBCEN4ER    18           1-   -       li  13    41,.4.0        -    -    -    -    4,734.0         0  0.bS          0       E
2. SLtG MNTCE
(02 PER TR)                   SUICENTER    li    -    -    -    -           0   (5,0.0              -    -    -    5.660.0         0  0.6S         0    60L.0
(701 Of IDS)
iA PS4                        SEUEINTER      08   -    -    -    -    18  ;!03    3,654.0     -    -    -    -    3,654.0         0  0.65          0      DRU
21 DEPOTS                     SUE4ENTER    21   -   -   -   -    21  :90    S.190,0           -    -    -    -    8.190.0         0  0.65          0      DRU
Sob-Totil DRU0S
(700 OF IDS)                                                                     (1.844.0    -                       1,844.0
Sub-Total SUM 4EA 0E0S                                                                  32,238.0     -    -    -    -   32,238.0
f. VILLAliE LEVEL DOUGS
(701 O  IDS)                     0VILL0GE      112   -   -   -   -   112   22  1(,604.1           -    -    -    -   1(,664.0         o  0.65          ;      ONU
0. WE9LTH PROGRAMS
1. PER 00E0S
SURT1CAL   (E-                                                                   170.0    -    -    -    -          17b.0          0.b5         0    PFEF
TIGGEIIHG I *7iNN14G-                                                             1,266.0     -    -    -    -    1,0.lE 0         0  0.65         0    FERD
ONGOING SPN                                                                       33903.D3S.O                                      o  i.b5         o      ERG
I0f1RM4ID0 54E4 t                             -   -   -   -3.90                               -    -                 a -  3,0.2    0  0.65         o    PERD
IMP08MT009 0092468                                            6,760.0~~~-------  ----  - ---  ---  ------0----(                      408
Sub-Total PER DIEA 03 ,1.0                                                                        -    -    -    -   13.1ib.0
2. DRUGS
ELINONESS CONTROL                                                                   632.0                              632.0       0  0.65         0      ORu
TB CONTROL                                                                        2,95.0        -     -     -        2,95.0           0.65          0     GRU
LEPROS  C009R2L                                                                  (8,7-16.0                          18,736.0       0  0.05                D (RU
SL4ARl  CONTROL-2                                                                       .0          -          -2    2.46bb.       0  0.6                 DRU
6A1lA (I(TI08 CO0IRG0                                                               143.0                               143.0      0  0.65          0       0RU
EPI                                           -.1.92.0    -    -                                                     64092.0       o  2.           1(    DRU
00-Total DRU0 S                                                                     332,054.0    -    -    -    -   31,054.0
3. OLD C0AIN
PEk89  (    IPENSES -7-                                                           E,(116.0     -    -    -    -    3,316.0         0  0.*5          .      OPE
0ub-lolal HELI  P9GSiklS                                                              54,036.0     -    -    -    -   54.536.0
Iott, RECUR&EN1 C0S0S                                                                     206.728.0      -    -    -    -  208.729.0
ltil 8 1SELINE COSTS                                                                      20E. 728.0        -    -        -  208.728.0



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
T-12
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Disbursements      Cumulated    Cumulated    Undisbursed
Fiscal Year/Semester         Per Semester         Amount           %           Balance
FY84
December 31, 1983
June 30, 1984/1                1.00                1.00/2        6%             15.70
FY85
December 31, 1984              0.34                1.34          8%             15.36
June 30, 1985                  0.50                1.84         11%             14.86
FY86
December 31, 1985              1.17                3.01         18%             13.69
June 30, 1986                  1.83               4.84          29%             11.86
FY87
December 31, 1986              2.34                7.18         43%              9.52
June 30, 1987                  2.67                9.85         59%              6.85
FY88
December 31, 1987              1.84              11.69         70%               5.01
June 30, 1988                  1.51               13.20         79%              3.50
FY89
December 31, 1988              1.50               14.70         88%              2.00
June 30, 1989/3                1.00               15.70         94%              1.00
FY90
December 31, 1989              0.50               16.20        97%               0.50
June 30, 1990/4                0.50               16.70        100%              0.00
1/  Expected date of effectiveness: March 1984.
2/ Disbursement from PPF advance.
3/ Expected date of project completion: September 30, 1989.
4/ Closing date: March 31, 1990.



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
T-13
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND  CONSULTING  SERVICES
(Manmonths)
Expatriate  Technical  Assistance  (Unit  Cost  $10,000/mo.)
Year    Year    Year    Year    Year
Component                Description                                    1       2        3        4        5       l'OTAL
Training           Curriculum Reform Speciaiist                           12        6                                 is
Short Term Curriculum Reform Specialists               8                                           8
-    Teacher Orientation                                              4       4                          8
Pharmaceuticals   PPM: Accounting and Distribution                        12       12                                 24
Press and Radio Advertisements (MOE'HSA)               2                                            2
Planning Assistance (MOPHSA)                           6        6                                 12
KOPISA              Assistance to Chief, PCU                               3   -   3         3                          9
Assistance to Deputy Director LPCU                    12       12       12       12               48
Audit of Project Accounts                              2        2        2        2        2      10
Computer System                                                  *       4                         4
Procurement Specialist                                 2        2                                   4
Establishment of Information System                             3        2                          5
Payment for Health Services Scheme                              2        2                          4
Planning/Budgeting                                     4        2        2                          8
Health Education                                       3                                            3
Village Health    Preparation of Health Literacy Materials                 0        6                                   6
Research                                                                 6                 6      12
Evaluation of VH worker and H Education                                  2                          2
Mid-Term and Final Evaluation                                            2                 2        4
TOTAL                                                                                                              191  _ the
15.9 ($1.91u)
LOCAL CONSULTANTS
(Unit Cost $1,100/mo.)
Drugs              Local Cons. for Press and Radio  Advertisement    6                                              S.OO7u
TOTAL BASE COST                                                                                                   $1.92
Source: IDA.



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
MALI HEALTH DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
LIST OP VEHICLES
(CFA '000; Base Cost)/1, /2
Year
Component                    Level                         Vehicle               Unit Cost       1         2    3    4    5    TOTAL    TOTAL COST
Health Services     Kite Cercle Health Center:       I  4-wheel drive diesel        UC-11,240        1    0    0    1    0    2
I diesel sedan            UCD   9,500      1    0    0    1   0    2
4 aotorcycles             UC-   871        4    0    0    4    0    8
5 motor bicycles          UC-   345        0    0    5    0    0    5
6 bicycles                UC.   80.3       0    3    3    0    0    6
Bafoulabe Health Center:        1   4-heel drive diesel        UC-11,240        1   0    0    1   0    2
1   4-wheel drive gas          UC- 9,106       1    0    0    1    0    2
4 motorcycles              UC.   871       0    0    2    2    0    4
S motor bicycles           UC.   345       0    0    0    3    2    5
6 bicycles                UC-    80.3      0    0    3    2    1    6
Kenieba Health Center           I   4-wheel drive diesel       UC-11,240        1    0    0    1   0    2
1   4-wheel drive gas          UC- 9,106       1    0    0    1    0    2
4 motorcycles             UC-   571        0    0    2    2    0    4
S otor bicycles           UC-   345        0    0    0    3    2    5
6 bicycles                 UC-    80.3     0    0    3    2    1    6
Pharmaceuticals     Pharmacy Inspectorate            2   4-wheel drive diesel       UC-11,240        2    0    0    2    0    4
Village Health      DNAPLA                           I   4-wheel drive diepel       UC-11,240        0    0    1   0    0    1
Chefs de ZAW                        6 motorcycles              LC-   345        2    2    2    0    0    6
KOH                 PCU, Bamako                          I small car                UC- 4,000        1    0    0    1   0    2
I sedan                   UC- 8,000        1    0    0    1    0    2
t  4-wheel drive              UC-11,240        0    0    1   0    0    1
LCPU, Kits                      I  4-wheel drive diesel        UC-11,240        1   0    0    1    0    2
I diesel sedan                             0    0    1   0    0    1
Planning Directorate                I small car                UC-4.000         I    0    0    I   0    2
1   4-wheel drive diesel       US$-11,240      1    0    0    1   0    2
84
/1  Base cost for above listed vehicles:  346,512.3 (MY '000) - US$465,000
f5  b, addition, the project will also finance vehicles under the ADAUA contract for ADAUA supervision.  These vehicles are valued at $185,000.
Source: IDA.



ANNEX I
C-1
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Public Heoath and Sociol AIfairs
National Public Health                                                                                     Orientation Committee of Health
Research Institute                                                                                 4        Concepts & Proams (1)
Mlkion Otfice of                T.TA 2                   Minister &         L                                   Adminestrotion &
Phormocy                                               Cabinet                                               Financial Unit (2)
Inspectorate General of
Public Health &
3A3          TA                                 3                     Social Affairs
Nationnal Directorate Ot            Natol Di ate                          National Directorate ft
Nationai Directorate at               Public Hyglenoe &                    Public Health (5)                   Planning & Health &
|  SocialAtfairs (6)  |      |        Saunitation       t          L    Fut>cH dal           |         |     Social Training g4)
Regional                   Reg~~ircoratea                        Regional
Directorate of                      Dblictoygiene                       Directorate at
& Sonitation
munter                                                                  District
Health Center
|Sub-District
|Health Center 
Notes:     (1) Orientation Committee of Health Concepts & Programs (COCES) is an ad hoc consultative health commission.
(2) The Administrative & Financial Unit (CAF) is a branch of the Ministry of Finance & Commerce and is responsible for managing
the MOPHSA's personnel, equipment, materols & Finances.
(3) T.A 1 2, 3 and 4 refer to the four existing technical advisors to the iv inister.
(4) The National Directorate of Planning & Health & Social Training supervises the Secondary Schocl ot Health & the Nursing School
at Point "G".
(5) The National & Regional Directorates at Public Health supervise 3 national hospitals & 9 regional & secondary trospitais. respectively.
(6) The National Directorate of Social Affairs also supervises the Nationcrl Center for Community Deveiopment.
Source: MOPHSA                                                                                                                                                 World Bank-24766



-59 -
ANNEX 1
C-2
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Organizalion of Malian Pharmaceutical Subsector
Minister of                                                                             Mlnister of State
Health                                                                                   Enterpises
Inspectorate General of
Pubilc Heolth & Social Affairs
Division of                               Off ce Malien                                 Pharrnacle
_    Pharmnuceufical                        de Pharrnacie                                 Populaire du
Matters                             _       (OMP)                                _    Mall (PPM)
u   Inspection    l                        |     Drug    1                               r    PPM
XDivision                                      Factoy                                       Outlets
(92)
| Medicine |
World Bank-24767



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
c-3
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizational Structure of D.NA.F.LA
and Structural Reilationship wIth ODIF'AC
|TRUCIURES                                                           Ministry of   U       C      U      E        -                            LEv; 3
_      Education
Other National                             National Functional                            Other National
Technical               _ _ _ _         Literacy Directorate                              Educotion
Services                                    (DNAFLA)          __                        Directorates
Secretariat                                  MneentUi
_ __I                            .__ .N
___                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
I  Unguistics &                      IW_ Ime,n _'s, 
DMsions    |      Pedaoic                       Functional                       WoT nsProduction                                       N
Research                    Literacy           IPlromotionA
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
[C                                                                            C
SectIons     53                                                     I                                         0
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
[   ODIPAC
RURAL
l                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEVELOKI,ENT
DNE,FLA/ODIPAC                                                           ORGANIZATION
Coordinator                                                            (ODIPAC)
Zonal Directors                                                         ZONES
Sub-Zonal Chiefs                                                             SZN
(Chef de ZAF)                                                           SUB-ZONES
Functional           F       RFnctional                  Functional
Literacy Center              Literacy Center        |    Literacy Center 
_                                                         VI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LLAGES
Literacy Promoters                                                      , t
World Bank-24768



- 61 -
ANNX 1
C-4
MAL
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National and Dldc CoordWnation Choit
N oteOAA,Hcd onPh trt
. i                                                                 &         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -PlM
_    "o Unblt (CAf)           -0S
NK~                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nottonol School d kiledcine & PhomaOy
NatoNwO Cuntrk Co,w,rJty Oenentw
t;w                                                       -  tSecovndw Schoot l d hol
Cobkl                       Health Dql                              WM- Scho
DOhctor Voten (Wncineu) AqoWc
CtNaltln Dhctleat d Fbu,Wte &
NATIONAL                                                                                                                       constI X 
ONRA
tS/EL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DA
_~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otc _hcwf Db                                              I-i- 
Natld NatkNo otiora |
Directorate of       Declorate of t
social Allos           Sofco               Sc TnPu    Hah
tItGIOAL
Directorals of ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ hoecaa
* stjWsUCI.|
DIrect (Une) Re4ollonct ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       bfctLOCOOMC  ncidLfoc
-          eCat (o}*e) Rettonsh
- -rce: -ONA - Colman                                                      '  --lc2In
Source: MOPHSok                                                                                                                     Wol Bo-24769






/                                    ~~~~~~~M A U R I T A N I A
MA  URAM A L I
(N t >                     '                                          * HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KAYES REGION
To Atcat
gF \ *SgfEt IMANE                                       /                                                 Ko A4rra Project Zone Boundaries
Health Centers
Subcenters
Training  Centers
n)  \?O~~~~~~~ - - -   -  -                                      - ~~~~~~~~Paved roads
KAYE<                                                                 \ DKamora t8Improved tracks
NI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- Tracks
fo Dakar             GZ gotsovblagnas                                                _0 Diallakn        I                                                               -r--t-----t-   Railways
-)4                                                                                A,,Po T   (  -, t s Sefeto/  /  r   Eo Ko/okan,  Airports
a   > sbSadiold                                                           \s\\ .t                                                                                                (~ I X / t <> Rivers  14'-
AFOULABE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ District cen,ters
 ii )-A 7Regional centers
h,                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District boundaries
OulCalafJara    4  P  \0   al <    =  7 <   >  <        \1      <                                          Regional boundaries
S,cla E  N  E  G  A  L   '1 st   ffie koto                            \    \          a       J           >                      -      -     International boundcrris
IA \    Cd DombSag                               r -Simakoro X       =u'                                                             +
g  5_   |    (             -    |./   SaaatrX          _ y tS        \ So                                    BAMAKO
X  7Falo a;T                          0            A/ >  
-12                                                                                                                                                                          __________________*________________r_____r'_
)   7              9/                                                         _              I  \ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A L G F R I A
'k0~~~~~7
G _ y   5 U I N  E A                                                                                         - 4         ALGERIA                j
Tb KYivU f f re                                                      0              50f            100 0h                       200                                      MAURITANIA          I
ft' Tna uc                                                                                                    15TN  0l Dn    200_ 
[arlo! Th Word ffan Y nl Ihs                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K -ete le                                               NEqyz                                          N  I G  E R
any /udomStl ot lSl________________A___                                                                                                                                               
ol  anV   If TxlorV ~r~  KIv   Is                                                                                                                                        t                             ,- O - )        NIG E R E   R     ) U R
GUI NEA                                   N VL   0ds i
12'                                                               iv-                                                               t       _      _Z"~BEiN






- 63 -
ANNEX 2
MALI HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION TECHNOLOGY
1.        The Government of Mali decided to use the intermediate technology of
ram-pressed cement-earth brick construction as an alternative to more
established conventional construction methods to address the problems of: (a)
unit cost; (b) foreign exchange content of construction; (c) extreme
difficulties associated with transportation of materials to Mali and within the
project zone; (d) providing facilities that would protect the occupants from
unusually high daytime temperatures; and (e) establishing in Mali a construction
technology that would reduce the country's dependence upon expatriate technical
assistance.
2.        After evaluating the work of ADAUA l/ in Mauritania and Upper Volta
in the intermediate technology field of stabilized earth brick construction, the
Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTTP) invited ADAUA, a non-profit group
experienced in the intermediate technology of "stabilized earth block
construction," to introduce their technology to Mali and as a result a protocol
agreement was signed during 1982.
3.        The technology is expected to offer several economic and social
advantages over more established construction methods, viz:
(a) Cost and Foreign Exchange Savings. As the bulk of the construction
material is derived from selected clay/laterite soils as close to the
building site as possible, transport, a costly item in the proposed
project zone, is drastically reduced. The arch-dome construction is
relatively simple, uses locally available materials for the roof as
well as the walls and importation is therefore minimized. The
estimated foreign exchange component of about 15% compares with 25-40%
for alternative construction forms. Construction base costs of $160m2
are estimated at about 65% of comparable alternatives, and in remote
areas this relative cost advantage is expected to be even greater.
(b) Training, Local Employment Generation. The Government has financed a
small housing project in Bamako to be constructed by ADAUA during
1983. This project will be used for demonstration purposes, for
further evaluation of the ADAUA technology by the MTTP and will be
used by ADAUA to train an initial core of 18 masons and 12
brick-makers for subsequent employment on the construction of the
proposed health project facilities. This core of trained masons will
each select five masons and will form building teams of six people
plus supporting laborers. These teams will be given further
on-the-job training on the first
1/   ADAUA - Association for the Development of Traditional African Urbanisme
and Architecture.



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
district health center at Kita and will be employed to construct the
Kita health center.  Based on previous experience, these teams are
expected to reach normal levels of construction quality and
productivity within a six-month period.  As this training at the Kit:a
center is completed, qualified building teams will be gradually put to
work on the other project facilities. At this point, the bricklayinig
team of six masons wi'Ll group with two brick-makers with brick-making
equipment, plus laborers and will in essence form independent
construction units. Overall, the construction program is expected to
provide about 2,000 manyears of employment to people from the region.
An important secondary objective of the project is to create self
sustaining independent small scale construction teams (up to 18) that
will be able to continue t:o construct low-cost stabilized earth
buildings. During the project period, ADAUA training will encompassl
basic administrative procedures including simple accounting and record
keeping, cost estimation and equipment maintenance. It is ADAUA's
intention to act as a technical resource base for these artisans.
(c)  Adaptability of Buildings to the Local Climate.  The high thermal mass
of the arch dome construction tempers the unusually high daytime
temperatures in the project zone and offers the poss:ibility of
relative interior comfort to the buildings' occupants without resort
to mechanical ventilation or cooling. This can often be of critical
importance for in-patient health facilities.



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE DELIVERY SCHEME
Diseases                Interventions                           Tasks
1.   MALARIA          Chemoprophylaxis                 - Distribution of chloroquine,
once weekly, during June-
November: (a) in MCH clinics at
health centers and subcenters
by nursing personnel; and (b)
at the village level by village
health workers and TBAs.
- Administration of: (a) oral
2.   DIARRHEA         Treatment                          rehydration and, where neces-
sary , IV rehydration at the
health center; (b) oral
rehydration at the subdistrict
and village levels, using home-
made solutions.
- Health education and protection
Sanitation                         of wells and surface waters.
- Routine immunization at health
3.   COMMUNICABLE    Immunization against                centers and subcenters.
DISEASE          measles, tetanus, whooping       - Preparation and assistance to
CONTROL          cough, diptheria, polio and        immunization campaigns.
tuberculosis.
4.   MALNUTRITION   Surveillance                       - Under five clinics at health
centers and subcenters for
growth monitoring.
- Detection of risk cases by
village health workers.
- Demonstration of improved
weaning practices at health
center and village levels.
5.   PRENGANCY        Surveillance                     - Prenatal and postnatal examina-
COMPLICA-                                           tions at health center and sub-
TIONS                                               center level; TBA referral of
risk cases from the village
level.
Deliveries                       - Normal and high risk deli-
veries at health center level;
village level deliveries by
TBAs under hygienic conditions;
notification of infant and
maternal deaths at all levels.



- 66 -
AN:INEX 3
Pazge 2
Family Planning                  - Family planning educatior, at
all levels; provision of con-
traceptives and follow-up at
health center and subcenter
levels.
6.   BLINDNESS        Treatment                         - Minor surgery of cases of tri-
chiasis and cataract at health
center level; detection and
referral at subcenter level;
conjunctivitis treatment at
subcenter level, with self-
treatment at village level.
Prevention                       - Health education at all levels.
7.&  TUBERCULOSIS    Surveillance                      - Detection and examination of
8.   AND LEPROSY                                          suspected cases at health
center and subcenters.
Treatment                        - At health center level.
Prevention                       - Immunization of children at
health centers and subcenters;
health education at village
level.
9.   GUINEA WORM      Prevention                       - Health education and hygienic
use of water.



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
MALI
HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
METHODOLOGY FOR INITIATING VILLAGE PHC ACTIVITIES
Step 1: Information (1 day)
The villages targetted for PHC outreach programs during the year
would be visited by a multi-sectoral team composed of the chief district
medical officer, the sub-district nurse, the DNAFLA zonal chief, the ODIPAC
extension agent, the district community development technician and a
government representative. This team would meet with the village chief, his
advisors, and the village notables to explain the purpose of the visit,
provide an overview of the proposed project, the responsibility of all
parties involved, and to answer immediate questions. A simple brochure in
the national language outlining the project and a guideline for village
discussion would be left with the village.
Step 2: Village Deliberation (2 weeks)
The village chief would call an assembly of the population to
discuss the proposed program, to elicit ideas and questions from the
community and to list the priority health problems as seen by the villagers.
These would be communicated to the information team before its next visit.
For recording purposes, the village would be encouraged to involve the
literacy center animator and the participants of the post-literacy program.
The village would indicate its interest in further pursuing a health
improvement program by inviting the team for a second visit.
Step 3: Second Information Visit
The information team may now be limited to the sub-district nurse,
a sanitarian, and the DNAFLA zonal chief and the community development
technician. Village concerns and questions would be addressed first. If the
village continues to manifest interest in a village health program, the team
would propose the use of the literacy center promoter and the nucleus of
newly-literate individuals as the initial contact point for the sub-district
health team. The team would expose a number of alternative proposals for
managing village health activities that the community may wish to explore in
the future (village pharmacy, village health committee, volunteer village
health workers, etc), although at least an 8-12 week interval should be
allowed for village discussion and decision-making.



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
Step 4: Preparation of Literacy Materials
Through information gathered by the chef de ZAF during the
information meetings and subsequent village discussions, DNAFLA with
technical input from health professionals would prepare printed health
education materials for diffusion to the literacy centers, tailored to the
priorities expressed by the communities.
Step 5: Diffusion of Health Themes
The materials prepared by DNAFLA would be distributed to the
literacy centers for advanced literacy lessons, and subsequent diffusion to
the community through the post-literacy program participants. These
materials would be in support of the health improvement actions to be
undertaken by the village.
B. RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND HEALTH AND HYGIENE EDUCATION
Health and hygiene education related to water and water use would
be introduced in all 225 villages of the Kita district where the Rural Water
Supply Project would install tubewells equipped with hand pumps. 40 villages
would be served in project year 1; 80 in year 2; 80 in year 3; and, 25 in
year 4. It would be the task of the project to train villagers in the
operation, maintenance, and minor repair of the pumps and the installations.
DNAFLA, with assistance from health and sanitation professionals, would be
responsible for preparing water-related health and hygiene educational
materials in national languages for use in the village literacy centers.
These materials would be field tested before general application.
Technicians from the water supply project would assist DNAFLA to prepare
technical brochures in national languages dealing with pump maintenance and
repair, water installation managemnent, management of the village water fund,
etc.
Methodology
Step 1: Information Visit
The villages of the Kita district targetted by the rural water
supply project for the installation of a tubewell during Year 1 would be
visited by an information team comnposed of the district's political authority
a community development technician, health and water technical staff and
representatives of ODIPAC and DNAFLA. The team would meet with the village
chief and his advisors and any other individuals proposed by the chief. The
details of the project would be presented and preliminary ideas and questions
would be sollicited from the villagers. The village would be expected to
indicate an interest in pursuing the project further.



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
Step 2: Sensitization Process
Approximately 4-6 weeks after the initial visit, technical
representatives of the health and water projects, accompanied by ODIPAC and
DNAFLA field staff and the community development technician would pay a
second visit to the villages for more in-depth discussions with the
villagers, explaining technical details, the long-term implications of the
project, the financial participation expected, and the mutual
responsibilities of all parties concerned. The idea of a village/project
'contract" would be introduced.  It would be the responsibility of DNAFLA to
prepare the necessary printed materials for sensitization phase which would
be continued throughout the rainy season. The process of sensitization would
be catalysed by the animators of the literacy center and the participants of
the post-literacy program with the assistance of the community development
technician, the ODIPAC extension agents, and DNAFLA's zonal chief.
Step 3: Village Commitment
If the village has decided to participate in the project, it will
have chosen an individual, a group of individuals or a committee to represent
the village in negotiations with the project authorities. The village would
also have devised a means of raising the funds required before drilling can
commence. The local DNAFLA and ODIPAC field agents would be responsible to
register the names of the village representatives and the amount of village
contribution collected. A contract stipulating conditions, and
responsibilities of each party would be concluded between the project and the
village.
Step 4: Installation of the Tubewell
It is only after all preliminary steps have been completed, that
the project's well-drilling team and its equipment would arrive in a
village. It requires only 3-5 days to complete the drilling operations, and
several move to install the pump and to construct the well protection
structures. Individuals appointed by the village who would be responsible
for the care and maintenance of new water installation, would be trained by
project technicians with the assistance of ODIPAC and DNAFLA, using
educational materials prepared in national languages. Health and hygiene
education would be provided simultaneously, principally through the literacy
centers and the post-literacy training program.
Step 5: Monitoring and Evaluation
DNAFLA and ODIPAC field staff would provide continuous follow-up,
technical support, supervision and evaluation. Simple progress report
formats would be prepared by DNAFLA to be filled out by participants of the
post-literacy advanced training participants. An in-depth evaluation is
projected for year 4 of the project.



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
C. ORGANI1ZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Four governmental agencies are involved in the impIlementation of
the community promotion component.  These include:  the health development
(HD) project coordinating unit (Ministry of Health); the rural water supply
(RWS) project unit (Department: of Hydraulics and Energy); ODIPAC (Ministry of
Agriculture); and, DNAFLA (Ministry of Education).
ODIPAC's functional literacy division would have prime
responsibility for execution of field activities since it has administrative
jurisdiction over most of the literacy workers and all of the agricultural
extension agents. The HD and the RWS projects would have primary
responsibility for defining program content, planning program activities, and
providing technical input.  DNAFLA would have primary responsibility for
technical supervision and support of the literacy program, including the
elaboration and dissemination of educational materials and audio-visual
aids.
Overall coordination of the component would be the responsibility
of the Health Development Project. A full-time village coordinator with
extensive experience in community development employed full time by the
project would be based at Kita. The coordinator would ensure. effective
institutional linkages between the service providers, and among these and the:
project beneficiaries. To ensure effective and on-going coordination and
cooperation among the agencies involved, a coordinating committee would be
established. Each agency would designate a representative, and the
committee, chaired by the coordinator would meet at least once every month
until completion of the HD and RWS projects.



- 71 -
ANNEX 5
MALI HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1   Mali:  Health Sector Memorandum, World Bank, Report No. 2618a-MLI,
August 24, 1979.
A.2   Mali:  Report of Mission on Needs Assessment for Population
Assistance, United Nations Fund for Population Activities, Report No.
8, New York, December 1978.
A.3   Mali:  Nutrition Sector Report (Draft), by Franz Simmersbach, July
1978.
B.  Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1   Projet de Developpement Sanitaire:  Rapport Final (Final Preparation
Report), MOPHSA, Bamako, July 1982, 3 vols.
B.2   Projet de Developpement Sanitaire:  Rapport Final, Phase d'Evaluation
(Government Proposal at Appraisal), MOPHSA, Bamako, November 1982. 3
vols.
B.3   Projet d'Alimentation en Eau et Developpement Sanitaire:  Rapport
Socio-6conomique, SNED, Bamako, February 1982.
B.4   Projet d'Alimentation en Eau et Developpement Sanitaire:  Rapport
Sociologique, SNED, Bamako, February 1982.
B.5   Evaluation Sanitaire des Cercles de Kenieba, Bafoulabg, Kita:  Rapport
Preliminaire, Bamako, May 1981.
B.6   Assessing the Health Impact of Major Diseases in the Circles of Kita,
Bafoulabe and Kenieba (Draft), by H. Duflo, H. Balique, P. Ranque, H.
Alavi, N. Prescott, Bamako, September 1982.
B.7   Etude pour la Consolidation de l'Office Malien de Pharmacie dans le
Cadre d'un Systame Pharmaceutique National. Rapport Final et
Annexes. MOPHSA, May 1982.
B.8   Etude pour la Reorganisation du Systame Pharmaceutique National.
Rapport de Synthase et Annexes. MOPHSA, August 1982.



- 72 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Project (cont.)
B.9   Rapport Diagnostic de la Pharmacie Populaire du Mali, PA Conseiller de
Direction, 1982.
B.10  Rapport sur la Composante Medicaments du Projet de Developpement
Sanitaire au Mali, M. El Fekih, (Consultant),, October 1982.
C. Staff Working Papers
C.1   Back-to-Office Report:s on the Proposed Pharmaceutical Reforms.
C.2   Appraisal Report Working Paper on the Primary Health Care and Training
Components.
C.3   Appraisal Report Working Paper on the Village Health/Water Education
Component.
C.4   Architect's Notes.
C.5   Detailed Cost Estimates.



