OFFICIAL     REDIT NUMBER 1422 MLI
Development Credit Agreement
(Health Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1422 MLI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEKENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  0?A                , 1984,
between REPUBLIC OF MA      (herein  ter called the Borrower or
Mali) and INTERNATIONAL    DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION    (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS the torrower has requested the Association to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreemerit, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 9, 1980 and July 1,
1980 between the Borrower and the Association, pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated January 13, 1982 and March 23, 1982
between the Borrower and the Association and pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated November 3, 1982 and March 29, 1983,
between the Borrower and the Association;


﻿-2-
(b) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agree-
ment;
(c) "Project Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agree-
ment;
(d) "PPM" means the Borrower's Pharmacie Populaire du Mali;
(e) "Mali Franc" and "MF" mean the currency of the Bor-
rower;
(f) "DNPFSS" means the Direction Nationale de la Planifi-
cation et de la Formation Sanitaire et Sociale of the Borrower's
Ministere de la Sante Publique et des Affaires Sociales;
(g) "MSPAS" means the Borrower's Ministare de la Sante
Publique et des Affaires Sociales;
(h) "ADAUA" means Association pour le Developpement Naturel
d'une Architecture et d'un Urbanisme Africains;
(i) "Pharmaceutical Account" means the account to be opened
and thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 3.08 (a) of this
Agreement;
(j) "PCU" means the Project Coordinating Unit referred to
in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(k) "LPCU" means the Local Project Coordinating Unit re-
ferred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(1) "Budget" means the Borrower's Budget d'Etat;
(m) "Pharmaceutical Reform" means the activities to be
carried out to enable Office Malien de Pharmacie to undertake the
functions of an entity responsible for the production of drugs
and for research in the fields of traditional medicine and
pharmacy, to enable PPM to continue to operate as the national
public entity in charge of drug purchasing and distribution, to
establish a capability within MSPAS to plan and coordinate
national pharmaceutical policy, and to establish a national pur-
chasing commission to determine national annual drug purchasing
programs and official sales prices;


﻿-3-
(n)  "District" means Cercle, the Borrower's territorial
subdivision;
(o)  "Agency" means any entity participating in the execu-
tion of the Project including, but not limited to, ministries,
departments and agencies of the Borrower; and
(p) "BDM" means Banque de Developpement du Mali.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifteen million nine hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Sche ule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in MF a Special Account in BDM on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit


﻿shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1990
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pjay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1994, and ending November 15,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and health prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation to the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall for the purpose of the
Project: (i) open, and thereafter maintain until not less than
six months after the Closing Date, a Project Account in Mali
Franc in BDM on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association; (ii) deposit in such account, upon the opening
thereof, an amount of MF 12,500,000; and (iii) ensure that the
funds available in the Project Account shall, at the end of each
calendar quarter, amount to no less than MF 12,500,000 and shall,
at all times, be sufficient to permit the timely and efficient
execution of the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) establish and maintain, until the Project has been
completed, a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and a Local Project
Coordinating Unit (LPCU) with powers, responsibility, personnel
and resources satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association;
and
(b) establish and maintain the following full-time posi-
tions with PCU under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association and employ personnel to fill such
positions whose qualifications and experience shall be satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Association: (i) Directeur; (ii)
Directeur Adjoint; (iii) Chef de la Division Administrative et
Comptable; (iv) Administrateur; (v) Comptable; (vi) Chef de la
Division Etudes et Controle Technique; (vii) Chef de la Section
Etudes; and (viii) Chef de la Section Contr8le Technique.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1984, establish and, thereafter, maintain a Division of Pharmacy
and Drugs within MSPAS's Inspectorate of Public Health and Social
Affairs under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1984, establish and, thereafter, maintain within DNPFSS
the following full-time positions on terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Borrower and the Association and hire the following
personnel to fill such positions whose qualifications and experi-
ence shall be satisfactory to the Association: (i) a statisti-
cian; (ii) a health planner; (iii) a training specialist; and
(iv) an evaluation specialist.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1987, submit to the Asso-
ciation for its review and comments preinvestment studies re-
ferred to in Part C (1) of the Project; and
(b) not later than December 31, 1988 furnish to the Asso-
ciation a plan of action satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association for the implementation of the recommendations emanat-
ing from the studies referred to in paragraph (a) above.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) retain ADAUA's services to carry out Part D.3 of the
Project on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
and
(b) not later than March 31, 1984 assign and thereafter
maintain on a full-time basis, within the Centre des Technologies
Adapt9es, an expert whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association to: (i) verify
construction progress under Part D.3 of the Project; (ii) certify
ADAUA's payment request under such Part of the Project; (iii)
prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than June 30,
1985, a plan for upgrading of health centers   referred in Part
D.4 of the Project, and (iv) coordinate selection of construction
sites referred to in Section 3.11 of this Agreement.


﻿-7-
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than June 30, 1984 open and thereafter
maintain a Pharmaceutical Account in MF in the BDM on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association;
(b) ensure that any receipts from the sale of drugs
financed out of the Credit be deposited promptly into the
Pharmaceutical Account; and
(c) by the end of each calendar quarter, starting the
calendar quarter ending on September 30, 1984 maintain in the
Pharmaceutical Account a balance of not less than one hundred
million Mali Franc (MF 100,000,000).
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be d-r4ved from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,


﻿-8-
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, prior to commencement of
construction of each of the health centers in the Districts of
Kita, Bafoulabe and Kenieba and each of the health sub-centers in
the Districts of Kita, Bafoulabe and Kenieba described in Part
D.3 of the Project, furnish to the Association in respect to each
such health center and sub-center, evidence satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association that: (a) all such land and rights
in respect of land required for the construction and operation of
such health centers and sub-centers has been acquired; and (b)
all such land referred to in paragraph (a) above has permanent
water supply required for construction and operation of health
centers and sub-centers referred to in paragraph (a) above.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿-9-
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall:  (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure- and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the Special Account, the
Project Account, the Pharmaceutical Account and the separate
accounts referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association; (ii) furnish to
the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain with due
diligence and efficiency the buildings, furniture and equipment
included in the Project and shall make all necessary renewals
thereof and repairs thereto.
(b) The Borrower shall operate the facilities included in
the Project in accordance with appropriate administrative, health
and training policies and practices and with due diligence and
efficiency.
(c) The Borrower shall provide the funds, facilities,
services and other resources, including adequate staffing,
required for purposes of paragraphs (a) and (b) above.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall prepare, in consulta-
tion with the Association, and adopt, not later than December 31,
1984: (i) a list of essential drugs, to be provided at public
health and village level facilities; and (ii) a drug formulary
and a standardized prescribers treatment manual both in respect
of such drugs.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1984,
and not later than December 31 of each year, thereafter, present
to the Association for its review and comments a study on the
effectiveness of its Pharmaceutical Reform.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1984 prepare and furnish to
the Association for its review and comments a five year invest-
ment plan for PPM;
(b) not later than December 31, 1985 implement such mea-
sures from the plan referred to in paragraph (a) above as shall
have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association;
(c) not later than December 31, 1984 furnish to the Asso-
ciation a plan of action for strengthening management capability
of PPM under Part B.1 of the Project satisfactory to the Associa-
tion;
(d) not later than March 31, 1985 implement such measures
from the plan referred to in paragaraph (c) above as shall be
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; and
(e) not later than March 31 of each year, thereafter,
review the effects of the measures referred to in paragraph (d)
above in consultation with the Association.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall employ and thereafter
maintain on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association a consultant to assist MSPAS in setting up and
implementing a Project accounting system satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure that for its fiscal
year 1989, and for all fiscal years thereafter, the allocation in
its Budget are sufficient to sustain the activities initiated
under the Project, in a timely and efficient manner.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Special Aczount has been opened in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(b) the Project Account has been opened in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) PCU and LPCU have been established in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(d) PCU staff referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this
Agreement has been employed in accordance with the provisions
thereof;
(e) the consultant referred to in Section 4.05 of this
Agreement has been employed in accordance with the provisions
thereof; and
(f) ADAUA's services have been retained in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.07 (a) ,of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date                     Y     , is hereby
specified for the- purposes 5f Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section  5.03.   The  obligations  of   the  Borrower  under
Article IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section   6.01.  The   Minister  responsible   for  finances
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Bamako
Republique du Mali
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCES                        972559
Bamako
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the'
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works               5,210,000         100%
(2) Equipment, furni-         1,610,000         100%
ture, vehicles
and materials
(3) Technical assis-                            100%
tance:
(a) consultants'         2,560,000
fees
(b) training               290,000
(c) fellowships            570,000
(4) Training and                100,000         100%
materials under
Part E.1 of the
Project
(5) Studies under               290,000         100%
Parts C.1 and
F.3 of the
Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(6) Operating costs             670,000         (i) 95% up to the
(including drugs                           moment the aggre-
under Part D.1                             gate amount of
of the Project)                            disbursements
under this Cate-
gory reaches the
equivalent of
SDR 380,000;
(ii) 60% up to
the moment such
aggregate amount
reaches SDR
570,000; and
(iii) 30% there-
after
(7) Drugs under               1,800,000         100%
Part B.1 of the
Project
(8) Initial Deposit             950,000         Amount due under
in Special                                 Section 2.02 (c)
Account                                    of this Agreement
(9) Refunding of                950,000         Amount due under
Project Prepar-                            Section 2.02 (b)
ation Advance                              of this Agreement
(10) Unallocated                900,000
TOTAL              15,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "operating costs"
means operating costs of the Agencies carrying out the Project
and salaries and allowances for the Agencies' staff specifically
recruited and employed for carrying out the Project as identified
and budgeted in the approved annual plans of the PCU.


﻿- 15 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures: (i) made
prior to the date of this Agreement; and (ii) under Category (7)
above, until the Association shall have received audited accounts
of PPM satisfactory to the Association and the Borrower, covering
the fiscal year preceding the year in which the first withdrawal
application from the Credit Account under such Category is sub-
mitted to the Association by the Borrower, and until consultant
services satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association under
Part B.1 of the Project shall have been retained by the Borrower.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably esti-mated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in t'is Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association


﻿- 16 -
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCBEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purposes of the Project are: (i) at the national level,
to improve the quality of basic, field and in-service training
and the supply and utilization of basic drugs, and to develop the
planning and coordinating capability of MSPAS; and (ii) at the
regional level, to strengthen the Borrower's primary health care
services and related support services.
At the national level, the Project consists of:
Part A:   Health Manpower Development
Development of basic and in-service training of medical
and paramedical personnel through the provision of technical
assistance, materials and operating costs for curriculum develop-
ment, field training, seminars and fellowships.
Part B:   Drug Supply and Utilization
(1) Strengthening of the financial management capability
of PPM through technical assistance, and through the
provision of an initial supply of drugs and the esta-
blishment thereafter of a Pharmaceutical Account.
(2) Strengthening of MSPAS's capability in pharmaceutical
planning and coordination, development of a national
policy of payment for drugs and development of a public
and health manpower information program on drug pre-
scription and consumption through the establishment of
a Division of Pharmacy and Drugs with MSPAS Inspec-
torate of Public Health and Social Affairs, provision
of technical assistance thereto and the acquisition
thereafter and utilization thereby of office facilities
and equipment and about two vehicles.
Part C:   Planning, Coordination and Health Education
(1) Strengthening of health planning through the provision
of office equipment and vehicles and through the
provision of technical assistance, fellowships and
preinvestment studies for (a) further improvements in
health planning; (b) cost and feasibility analysis of a


﻿- 18 -
nationwide primary health care program; (c) strengthen-
ing primary health care activities, including maternal
and child health/family planning and nutrition at the
community level; and (d) development of a long-term
national MSPAS in-service training program.
(2) Establishment of a PCU and a LPCU and the provision of
technical assistance, office materials, operating costs
and vehicles thereto.
(3) Strengthening of MSPAS's health education and document-
ation services through the provision of technical
assistance, equipment, materials and a center compris-
ing office facilities and a library facility.
At the regional level, the Project consists of:
Part D.   Development of Primary and Secondary Health Care in the
Districts of Kita, Bafoulab4 and KLfnieba
1.   Carrying out of an integrated program of health services
through the acquisition of drugs and equipment and the provision
of technical assistance to health centers and sub-centers in such
District.
2.   Retraining of MSPAS's medical and paramedical personnel who
currently provide health services in such Districts.
3.   Construction, furnishing and equiping of a health center in
each of such Districts, and of about 18 health sub-centers.
4.   Upgrading, refurnishing and re-equiping of 3 health sub-
centers.
5.   Acquisition and utilization of about 6 four-wheel drive
vehicles, about 12 motorcycles, about 15 motorbicycles and about
18 bicycles.
Part E.   Village-level Health Education in the Districts of
Kita, Bafoulabe and Kenidba
Development of new skills and acquisition of new knowledge
through:
1.   Training of village-level health workers and promotion of
innovative activities by community groups contributing to the
improvement of the health status of the population.


﻿- 19 -
2.   Preparation  and   evaluation  of   health-related  literacy
material  through  the  provision  of  technical  assistance  and
materials.
3.   Development and support of functional literacy program field
staff involved in village level health education through the
provision of in-service training, incremental salaries and travel
allowances, and one four-wheel drive vehicle, about six motor-
cycles and about six radios.
Part F.   Monitoring and Evaluation
1.   Strengthening of MSPAS's evaluation capability through the
development of a monitoring and reporting system on the delivery
of health services in the Districts referred to in Parts D and E
of the Project, including provision of technical assistance
thereto, and acquisition for MSPAS and utilization thereby of a
microcomputer.
2.   Carrying out of a survey to measure changes in the health
status of the population in the aforesaid Districts.
3.   Preparation of a study to evaluate the impact of the Project
in the aforesaid Districts including an assessment of the effec-
tiveness of primary health care in such Districts.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1989.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
(Edition of July 1980) of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive biddin7, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender a general procurement notice in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
aational competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 21 -
Republic of Mali may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be grante, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groiups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Mali
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Mali equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 22 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works under Part D.3 of the Project may
be awarded through direct contracting.
2.   Contracts for civil works under Parts C.3 and D.4 of the
Project estimated to cost less than sixty thousand .ollars
($60,000) equivalent each, but in the aggregate not to exceed two
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) equivalent may be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent each, but in the aggregate
not to exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000)
equivalent may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Association.
4.   (i) Medical equipment and drugs may be procured through the
United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF)
or (ii) drugs may be purchased directly from the only existing
supplier, provided that the Association shall give its prior
agreement thereto.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or
more, and   all   contracts  for  goods  estimated  to  cost  the
equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall


﻿- 23 -
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the   Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it


﻿-- 24 -
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (6) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Initial Deposit" means an amount in MF
equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (8) and to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special
Account pursuant to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to this
Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account the Initial Deposit. Thereafter
and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the
Association at such intervals as the Association shall specify,
the Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the Specia Account such amounts as shall be
required to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to
payments made out of the Special Account for Eligible Expendi-
tures, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit. Except as
the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the
Initial Deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories (1) through (6),
and in   the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 26 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower
for a deposit by the Association into the Special Account after
the Initial Deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion in respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account such documents and other evidence as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made
for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made
by the Association: (a) when the Association shall have deter-
mined at any time that all further withdrawals can be made
directly   by the Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, or (b) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1) through (6) for the Project, plus the
amount of any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the
Association and of any special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Initial Deposit, whichever shall be
sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Categories (1)
through (6) for the Project shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower and shall,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, be made only
after and to the extent the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures,


﻿- 27 -
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of Tn Nv
198
FOR SECRETARY


