Docat of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIL USE ONLY
Reat No. 10208
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
EXPORT PROMOTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1045-KE)
DECEMBER 27, 1991
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution ad may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQJtIVALENTS (1980)
Currency Unit           -           Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh                     -           US$ 0.133
US$ 1.00                -           KSh 7.5
ABBREVIATIONS
DFCK  -   Development Finance Company of Kenya
EAC    -   East African Community
EEC    -   European Economic Commission
HCDA   -   Horticultural Crops Development Authority
ICDC   -   Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
IDB    -   Industrial Development Bank
KBS    -   Kenya Bureau of Standards
KIE    -   Kenya Industrial Estates
KRC    -   Kenya Heat Commission
KNTC   -   Kenya National Trading Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Kenya: July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 204w3
U.SA
Office of Dlrsotor-G.nral
Operations Eviuatlon
December 27, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXEC-UTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDE
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Kenya - Export Promotion
Technical Assletance Proiect (Credit 1045-RE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Kenya - Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1045-KE)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Thi doconunt hs a mickddb dbstbUn and may be used by fdpikts only In the peommne of their oica duts.
lb cnntats amy ne otbeiwie be diaciseed withou. World dank authortieatL



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
EXPORT PROMOTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1045-KE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                                                                                i
EVALUATION SUMMARY        . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . ... .                 iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . .                    1
Project Identity  . . . . . . . ..                    .    . . . . . . .             1
I.   Introduction  . . . . .    . . .         . . . . . . . .1
II.   The Project and Its Justification   . . . . . . . . . . . .                  2
IIT.   Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   4
IV.   Project Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  5
V.   Bank and Borrower Performance   . . .           .  .    .  . . . .           6
V1.   Conclusions. .              . . . . .    * * * .  . . .  . .                  6
PART_III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .  . .  .   . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .. .            8
Table 3.1:  Related Bank Loans  ...........                                          8
Table 3.2:  Project Timetable . . . ..  .   . . . . . . .                            8
Table 3.3:  Disbursements . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .  .                            9
Table 3.4: Staff Inputs   o.                         . .  .. .. . .                  9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
EXPORT PROMOTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1045-RE)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report reviews the Kenya Export Promotion
Technical Assistance Project, which was supported by IDA Credit 1045-RE.
Credit 1045-RE for US$4.5 million to the Republic of Kenya was approved
on June 12, 1980, and was closed on June 30, 1985, the original closing date.
Parts I and III were prepared by Bank staff based on infornation
available in project files and from discussions with Bank staff members
associated with the Project. In view of the lengthy period between closing and
preparation of the PCR, and in accordance with SVPOP guidelines for preparing
PCRs dated June 1989, no attempt was made to ask the Kenyan Government to
prepare Part II.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department. The draft
PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments, but none were received.



- ili -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RENYA
EXPORT PRONOTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1045-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives and Design
1.     The Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project was prepared in FY80
to provide technical support for Kenya's first structural adjustment program,
which was approved at about the same time.   It was designed to address
adjustment issues relating to industrial production and export marketing
through studies, seminars and training. Beneficiaries were expected to include
a broad list of relevant Government ministries and agencies as well as private
entrepreneurs. The project was to be implemented by a staff drawn from four
ministries. and guided by a comittee consisting of the Permanent Secretaries
of those ministries.   AD advisory comittee was also to be established,
consisting of representatives from six Government ministries or agencies
(paras. 9-12).
Imnlementation Exnerience
2.     Project implementation was extremely slow -- no activities had started
by the time the first structural adjustment operation was completed. A second
structural adjustment program followed on, but very few activities in support
of it were actually implemented under Credit 1045-RE. In 1983, in an attempt
to speed up project implementation, the Government considered employing UNIDO
to take over project implementation.  However, in 1984, it decided against
doing so. Also, reluctance on the part of some Government officials to use
loan funds, even on IDA terms, for policy studies led to continued slow
implementatior.. The project was closed on schedule June 30, 1985, with only
US$760,000 of IDA funds (17% of the IDA credit) actually utilized
(paras. 13-17).
Results
3.     While the record of the uses made of these funds is not clear, there is
no evidence that any of the project activities undertaken made a positive
impact on the first or second structural adjustment operations, or toward
achieving the project's objectives of supporting industrial development and
export expansion in Kenya.  The project must be considered unsuccessful in
terms of meeting its stated objectives (paras. 18-22).
Lessons
4.     The experience with this project highlights the need for better advance
planning of technical assistance activities; assuring that there is serious
beneficiary interest in the project objectives; instituting project implementa-
tion arrangements that provide for clear lines of responsibility and authority;



- iv -
and for programming an adequate level of Bank etaff time for supervision.
These lessons were incorporated in the subsequent generation of technical
assistance projects for the industrial and financial sectors ir. Kenya
(paras. 23-25).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
*                          EXPORT PROMOTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1045-RE)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROt5 THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
Project Name:       Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project
Credit Number:       1045-RE
RVP Unit:           Africa Region
Country:            Kenya
Sector:             Technical Assistance
T. Iatroduction
1.     Kenya's first decade after independence in 1963 was one of remarkable
growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual average rate
of 6.62 during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly, at
4.7Z  and 8.4X per annum respectively.   The expansion of agriculture was
stimulated by the conversion of considerable high-potential land from extensive
use to small-holder cultivation, the introduction of high-value production
activities, and the adoption of high-yielding maize varieties.  Growth of
manufacturing was made possible largely by the expansion of domestic demand due
to riFing agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was
being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards
foreign investment, and active Government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
2.      Following the first oil crisis of 1973, growth decelerated to 42 p.a.,
or virtual stagnation in per capita terms, reflecting not only the oil shock,
but also the emergence or intensification of structural constraints largely
unrelated to the post-1973 terms of trade deterioration. Agricultural growth
decelerated, due partly to the tapering off of the specific positive factors
that had sustained agricultural growth in the first decade after independence,
Government policies, including trade and exchange rate policies that turned the
internal terms of trade against the agricultural sector, and inefficient,
monopolistic Government involvement in agricultural marketing that discouraged
production and placed undue burdens on the budget.
3.      Industrial growth also decelerated due to the increasingly high cost of
Kenya's capital-intensive investment and the burden on the balance of payments
of a sector that imported a substantial volume of intermediate goods for
minimal processing and assembly but exported very little. Export volume grew
by less than 11 annually during the late 1970s, and exports became more
concentrated on coffee, tea, and petroleum products.



- 2 -
4.     A fundamental problem underlying the sluggish industrial and export
performance was the wall of heavy protection afforded by tariffs, licensing and
quantitative restrictions. Also, the collapse of the East African Community
(EAC) common market in 1976 reduced the export prospects for Kenyan products
produced vnder prrtected conditions. In a word, the early economic strategy
that was able to exploit the easy import-substitution possibilities of the
Kenyan economy was exhausted, and the high levels of protection required by
that strategy resulted in an anti-export bias by making it more profitable to
produce for the domestic market.
5.     During 1974-75 the increase in petroleum prices also put a strain on
Kenya's balance of payments.   This was temporarily relieved by the rapid
escalation of coffee prices (one of Kenya's principal exports) in 1976-77, but
prices soon dropped and the balance of payments pressures accelerated again,
exacerbated by an increased level of military spending and a liberal import
policy adopted during the coffee boom.
6.      In 1979 Kenya sought the assistance of the Bank and the IMF in designing
and implementing a revised set of policies to cope with the deteriorating
balance of payments situation. The new stratogy was outlined in the Kenyan
Fourth Development Plan (1979-83). Kenya signed a stand-by agreement with the
Iflf in 1979, and provided the Bank with a letter dated January 2, 1980
outlining a specific and time-bound action program that was designed to begin
the transformation of the Kenyan economy. This program became the basis for
approval by the Bank of an IDA credit (999-KE) of US$55 million, which was
approved on March 25, 1980 (the World Bank's first structural adjustment loan
in Africa). The action program, which was also supported by EEC and OPEC Fund
financing, Was conceived as the first phase of a more comprehensive structural
adjustment process and, if successful, was expected to be folloved by other
adjustment operations in the future.
7.     This first phase program had limited.objectivt.s focusing on (i) the
promotion of a more efficient and outward looking pattern of industrial growth;
(ii) effective external debt management; and (iii) realistic advance budgeting
of government revenues and expenditures. The first objective was designed to
include the growth of non-traditional exports, thus easing the foreign exchange
constraint over the medium term.  Specifically, the Government agreed that
industrial protection would be rationalized and gradually reduced, and that
existing incentives for non-traditional exports would be improved. The program
was expected to have a substantial impact on the economy, including a boost in
exports. The IDA credit proceeds were used to finance imports of a broad range
of essential raw materials (except fuels), intermediate goods and final
manufactures, including machinery and equipment.
ZI. The Project ad Its Juatlfffatlon
8.      The Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project was conceived as a
means of making technical assistance and training available in support of the
structural adjustment program.   Specifically, the project was intended to
" ..... support industrial development in Kenya in line with the Government
strategy under the current development plan", with special emphasis on
industrial production and export marketing.



-3-
9.     The project, to be implemented over four years, was divided into two
parts with primary responsibility for Part A to be located in the Ministry of
Industry and Part B in the Ministry of Comerce.  Activities, as spelled out
in the Development Credit Agreement, were to include:
Part A: Studies, Seminars and Training related to Industrial Production
i. feasibility studies of export-oriented projects;
ii. studies to identify and evaluate the production and
export potential of specific industries, f:rms and
sectors or subsectors;
iii. studies to identify and assess manpower requirements for
industrial rentructuring;
iv. studies on implementation of industrial restructuring
policies;
v. studies on the technology to be applied in the use of
local resources and production techniques for exports;
vi. a training program providing for the training of staff
from the Kenya Bureau of Standards related to the im-
provement of standards and quality control of exports and
goods;
vii. a short-term training program in Kenya and elsewhere in
activities relating to the identification, preparation
and appraisal of projects for staff from public agencies;
and
viii. a staffing program to implement above activities.
Part B: Studies, Seminars, and Training Related to Export Marketing
i. marketing  studies  of  export-oriented  products  and
projects;
ii. studies to identify and evaluate the export potential of
industries, firms, sectors and subsectors;
iii. studies to identify and assess manpower requirements for
export marketing and promotions;
iv. studies on implementation of export marketing and promo-
tion policies;
v. a program providing for the training in Kenya and over-
seas of staff from public agenci.et. in export marketing
activities;
vi. organization of export marketing seminars in Kenya;
vii. s_pport services through a special fund to assist produc-
tion, packaging and direct marketing of exports by
handicraft workers and associations as well as to upgrade
skills of relevant artisans through short-term training
locally or elsewhere;
viii. a staffing program required to implement I-IV above.
10.    The project was to be implemented by staff in the Ministries of Finance,
Economic Planning and Development, Industry and Commerce. A professional staff
of five senior Kenyan officials was to be assembled from personnel in the
Ministries of Planning, Commerce and Industry to manage the project. An inter-
ministerial project advisory committee was to be established consisting of the



-4-
Permanent Secratarieo  in the Hinistries of Industry, Comnerce, Planning,
Fiuaince, and t  e other representatives from the other project beneficiaries
(Agriculture     astock Development, the Industrial Development Bank of Kenya
(IDB), the L,.aLopment Finance Company of Kenya (DFCK), the Kenya Industrial
Estates  (KIE) I tdustrial and Comuercial Development Company (ICDC),  the
Horticultural Crops Development Authority (HCDA), the Kenya National Trading
Corporation (KNTC), the Kenya Meat Commission (KMC), and the Kenya Bureau of
Standards (KBS) as well as individual private entrepreneurs).
11.    The project staff, after taking due account of comments by members of
the advisory committee, were to submit recommendations for final Government
approval. to a comimttee consisting of the Permanent Secretaries in the
Ministries of Economic Planning and Development, Commerce, Industry and Finance
(or their nominees).  The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Economic
Planning and Development (or his nominee) would act as chairman of the approval
committee.  All proposals would be submitted to the Associstion for final
approval.  The Bank's Resident Representative in Kenya would be authorized to
approve submissions on behalf of the association.
12.    Project costs were projected as follows:
USS Million
Consultants for Studies                        4.50
Training/seminars                              0 50
Support services for handcraft workers         0.15
Export standards/Quality control               0.15
Incremental local staffing and
support serviaes                               0.50
Price contingencies                            0 60
6 40
Project Cost Net of Duties and Taxes           6.00
IDA agreed to finance US$4.50 million of the project costs, and the
Government was to provide the equivalent in local currency of US$1.50 million.
There is no evidence of any detailed planning or terms of reference prepared
in advance for the studies to be done or for the training programs to be
carried out.
III. Project Ioplementation
13.    Conditions  of  effectiveness,  including  the  appointment  of  the
professional staff to be responsible for the project, were met on schedule.
However, the professional staff were Government officials with other duties,
and so had limited time for project implementation.
14.    Program implementation went forward very slowly,  in part because
responsibility for implementation was widely diffused and partly because there
was no full time locus of responsibility.  One element that moved forward
toward the end of the first year was a training seminar on National Technology
Policy designed by World Bank staff.   On March 9, 1983 the field office
reported that as of that date only two activities had been approved, and only



one had incurred any expenditure. The first, for the aforementioned technology
seminar, had drawn down about US$100,000. The other, for technical assistance
to the Customs Department, was awaiting the identification of a cuitablo
consultant. Several proposals (one for Tourism Promotion Services and a study
on incentives and comparative advantage for Kenyan exports), were considered
but rejected by the Government.
15.    In view of the slow rate of project implemer.tation, in August 1983 the
Government suggested that UNIDO be engaged to take over project implementation,
and a UNIDO team visited Kenya to work up a proposal. However, in February
1984 the Government rejected the UNIDO proposal. Also, the Permanent Secretary
of the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development advised Bank staff in
Nairobi that the Government was reluctant to use any loan funds, even IDA
credits, to finance consultancies for policy oriented studies. This attitudet
which was not apparent to Bank staff at the time the project was under
preparation, may have been reinforced by the availability of UNDP grant
financing for industry feasibility studies during the implementation period,
which led to several unsuccessful qttempts to obtain UNDP grant financing for
policy studies as well.
16.    As of August 31, 1984 only US$292,090 of the credit had bsen disbursed,
US$173,174 of which was for the National Technology Policy Program. Several
individual consultants had been engagad for short periods to undertake specific
work for the Ministry of Finance and Planning (now combined) related to export
promotion.   Subsequently studies were carried out regarding the foreign
exchange earnings from agriculture, evaluation of progress on changes in the
export compensation scheme, and industrial studies of various kinds along with
financing some of the costs of an Indian small scale industry exhibition held
in Kenya.
17.    The Goveranent did not seek to extend the project, and it was closed on
June 30, 1985 as originally planned. As of January 14, 1986, the date of the
last disbursement, US$759,678.70 had been drawn down and the balance of the
credit was canceled. The final disbursements by category were as follows:
Disbursed
Cate-orv                     (US Dollars)
1. Consultant Services               540,217.13
2. Training Seminars                 201,635.12
3. Support Services                   17,826.45
4. Training for staff                     --
TOTAL                            759,678.70
IV. Project Reaulta
18.    The Project's impact was obviously limited by the fact that only 17S of
the project funds were drawn down. In addition, however, the intended role of
providing technical assistance support for the Structural Adjustment Credit
(Cr. 999-KE) was not achieved since no activities relating to this credit had



-6-
been expended by the time the structural adjustment operation was closed on
December 31, 1980.  The structural adjustment program associated with this
credit was considered only partially successful, and was particularly
disappointing in terms of making the industrial sector more efficient and
outward-looking.
19.    A Second Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit (Loan 2190-KRE and Credit
1276-KRE) was approved on July 1, 1982 as a follow-on to the first credit. The
Kenyan program of adjustment adopted under the first credit was further
developed and expanded (i.e. reduction in industrial protection, export
promotion, improved external borrowing arrangements, and forward budgeting) and
action programs were added with the objective of overcoming constraints in
agriculture, energy, family planning, project implementation and domestic
resource mobilization. While the Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project
was available during the entire period of the second adjustment program, it
appears to have played only a very limited role (if any) in supporting its
implementation.   The Second Structural Adjustment Program was considered
marginally successful in improving Kenyan structural policies and procedures,
but ineffective in actually achieving improved export performance.
V. Bank and Borrower Performance
20.    The Export Promotion Project was largely conceived and designed within
the Bank based on the Bank's perception of the Kenyan Government's needs in
carrying out the structural adjustment program. As such, it failed to take
into account the lack of Kenyan interest in the expected project outputs, and
the reluctance of some Government officials involved in the project to use
borrowed funds to finance studies and technical assistance (this reluctance is
no longer apparent under more recent sector adjustment operations).
21.    Also, the project design suffered from excessive complexity and division
of responsibility for implementation. Although the record is not clear, it is
doubtful that the Advisory Co  ittee ever met.  The Ministers of Industry and
Commerce appear to have played little or no role in project implementation, and
the professional staff responsible for project implementation had other full
time responsibilities within the Government that diverted their attention from
project activities.
22.    The project was supervised from the Bank's office in Nairobi, although
no analysis was made to determine if the Nairobi office had the time or the
budget to carry out those responsibilities (which generally fell by default to
the Deputy Resident Representative). No systematic supervision program was
developed, and supervision reports were not prepared except on an exceptional
(and incomplete) basis.
VI. Concluslonz
23.    By every measure this project must be considered as unsuccessful. There
is no evidence of any effective accomplishments at the project level, the
project did not serve as an effective supportive mechanism for the structural
adjustment program, only a small portion of the funds were actually attilized,



- 7 -
and Kenyan export performance did not show good results during and immediately
after the life of the project.
24.    In retrospect, there are some obvious lessons regarding project design:
a.  It is essential that there be serious beneficiary participa-
tion in the project design.
b.  Responsibility for implementation by the beneficiary should
be clear cut and placed with staff who have the capacity and
time to carry out their responsibilities.
c.  Adequate advance planning of project activities is necessary
in order to avoid implementation delays and to assure that
the recipients have the same expectations as the Bank
regarding the nature of the project.
d.  The Bank must program adequate supervision time into its wo-k
schedule.
25.   These lessons have been embodied in subsequent Kenya operations, and in
particular in the preparation and appraisal of the technical assistance
components of the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (No. 1927-UE approved in
FY 1988), the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (No. 2049-RE approved in FY
1989) and the Financial Parastatal Technical Assistance Credit (No. 2147-RE
approved in FY 1990).



- 8 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 3.1: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title        Purpose         FLscal       Loan            Status
Year of    Amount in
Approval       US$
..________  .______________ .______ _  IK illion
1.  Credit     To support the       1980         55.0     Completed
999-RE First   first phase of                              12/31/80.
Structural     Kenyan                                      Performance Audit
Adjustment     Structural                                  Report No. 9934
Credit         Adjustment                                 was issued
2/10/84.
2.  Loan       To support            1983        60.9      Completed 1/6/84.
2190-RE &      additional                         and      Performance
Credit 1276-   structural                        70.0     August Report No.
RE             adjustment of                               5682 was issued
the Kenyan                                 5/31/85.
economy
Table 3.2: Project Timetable
Date Plamned     Revised Date    Actual Date
Appraisal                  November 1979    November 1979   November 1979
Negotiations               April 1980        April 1980      April 1980
Board Approval             June 1980         June 12, 1980   June 12, 1980
Loan Signature             July 1980         July 14, 1980   July 14, 1980
Effectiveness              August 1980       October 15,      October 15i
1980            1980
Loan Closing               June 1985         June 30, 1985   June 30, 1985



- 9 -
Table 33: Disbursements
Cumulative Credit Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
________________    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
i.    Planned              0.5     1.5      3.0      4.5     4.5      4.5
ii.   Actual               0.0    0.01    0.11    0.21    0.65    0.76
iii.  Actual as Z of       0.0      72       42       52      142     172
Planned                         I_I_I_I-
Original I Disbursed | Canceled   Repaid  I Outstanding
Credit Amount     4.50   | 0.76   |3.74              O          0.76
Table 3.4: Staff Inputs
Staff Inputs (Mission and Headquarters)
I. Y                    Person Weeks
Pre-appraisal           FY80                    2.6
Appraisal               FY80                    4.8
Negotiations            FY80                    5.7
Supervision             FY81-86                 1.2 (not including Field
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ O ffice )  
Project Completion      FY92                    3.0 (Estimate)
Field Office Staff time -Ls not available.



