Document of             FILE COpy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2828-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
EXPORT PROMOTION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 21, 1980
This document has a restrcted distrbution and may be used by recipients only In the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorixatIon. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit    =    Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh               =    US$0.133
US$1.00                KSh 7.5
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued at a fixed rate
of 9.66 KSh to the SDR, the USDollar/KShilling exchange rate
is subject to change. Conversions in this report were made
at US$1.00 to KSh 7.5 which is close to the recent average
exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
DFCK      -       Development Finance Company of Kenya
EAC       -       East Africa Community
EADB      -       East African Development Bank
EEC       -       European Economic Commission
HCDA      -       Horticultural Crops Development Authority
ICDC      -       Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation
IDB       -       Industrial Development Bank
ISPC      -       Industrial Survey and Promotion Centre
ITC       -       International Trade Centre (Geneva)
KBS       -       Kenya Bureau of Standards
KETA      -      Kenya External Trade Authority
KIE       -      Kenya Industrial Estates
KMC       -       Kenya Meat Commission
KNTC      -       Kenya National Trading Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
EXPORT PROMOTION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Kenya
Amount:            US$4.5 million equivalent
Terms:             Standard
Prolect            A four-year technical assistance program to finance studies
Description:      and training relating to export promotion as well as provide
assistance to the Kenya Bureau of Standards. The project
also includes support services for handicraft workers and
associations.
Estimated
Project Costs:
Local    Foreign    Total
-------US$ million-------
Consultants for Studies                   1.30        3.20       4.50
Training/Seminars                         0.20        0.30       0.50
Support Services for
Handicraft Workers                         -          0.15       0.15
Export Standards/Quality Control           -          0.15       0.15
Incremental Local Staffing and
Support Services                          0.50         -        0.50
Price Contingency Allowance               0.15        0.45       0.60
Total Project  Costs                      2.15        4.25       6.40
Project Cost net of
Taxes and Duties                          1.75        4.25       6.00
Financing Plan
IDA                                       0.25        4.25      4.50
Government                                1.50 1/       -        1.50
Project Cost net of Duties & Taxes        1.75        4.25       6.00
1/   Contribution would be in cash or kind.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA FY                1981    1982    1983       1984
---------($ million)---------
Annual                0.5      1.0      1.5      1.5
Cumulative            0.5      1.5     3.0       4.5
Appraisal
Report:           There is no separate staff appraisal report.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN EXPORT PROMOTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$4.5
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a technical assistance project
for export promotion.
PART I - KENYA'S ECONOMY IN TRANSITION 1/
2.        A report entitled "Kenya Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 2441-KE)
dated March 1979 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary
of social and economic data is in Annex I. A Basic Economic Report on Kenya
is now under preparation.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Prospects
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then the country has experienced remarkable continuity in both
political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement
of both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of accelerated
industrialization, by providing incentives for private, including foreign,
investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development model can be charac-
terized as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a diversity of
organizational forms and incentives and combines private enterprise with a
significant amount of government participation and guidance. While the death
in 1978 of President Kenyatta had been anticipated with concern because of
possible political disruption and discontinuity in Kenya's development, it
is clear that the country has made a smooth transition to new leadership
under President Moi and that the future will see continuity in both political
and economic spheres. Recent peaceful elections provide additional confirma-
*          tion of this.
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remarkable
growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual average
rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly,
4.7% and 8.4% per annum, respectively. The expansion of agriculture was
stimulated by redistribution of large estates to smallholders, rapid diffusion
of hybrid maize and growth of smallholder output. Growth of manufacturing was
1/   This section is substantially the same as the President's Report on the
Structural Adjustment Credits (Report P-2670-KE of February 11, 1980).



-2-
very largely made possible by the expansion of domestic demand due to rising
agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was being
encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards foreign
investment and active government promotion of and participation in manufac-
turing ventures.
5.        Despite this rapid growth, Kenya remains a poor country, still
heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture.  Average per capita income in
1978 was US$320 and agriculture accounted for about a third of GDP (1975-77)
and 60% of export earnings (1977). Since the growth of the industrial sector
has been largely confined to the major urban areas, agriculture remains the
principal source of income in the rural areas where over 80% of the population
live and work. Thus, while the country has made substantial economic progress
in an atmosphere remarkably free from social unrest, it still has significant
problems of poverty and under-employment. It is estimated that about one-
fourth of the population have incomes which place them below the absolute
poverty line. Moreover, while Kenya's post-independence growth record has
been impressive, a number of problems have been emerging which will make it
more difficult to sustain the rapid growth of domestic product and further
alleviate poverty. These are: the extremely rapid growth of population, the
inward-looking pattern of industrialization, and the slow growth of and lack
of diversification of exports.
6.        The most fundamental problems Kenya faces are posed by the rapid
growth of population, currently estimated by the government to be 3.9% per
year, which is among the highest in the world. This is, ironically, the
result of Kenya's past success in raising living standards which has resulted
in a steady decline in mortality, and has probably resulted in an increase in
the country's already high fertility rate.
7.        Another fundamental problem that has been emerging involves the
pattern of the country's industrialization and its effects on export growth
and labor absorption. In general, industrialization has taken place behind
a wall of heavy protection afforded by tariffs, quotas, licensing and other
quantitative restrictions. Rapid growth of industry in the past has been
largely based on investments in fairly simple, import-substitution industries
by multinational companies. To a lesser extent, manufacturing production
was also oriented to the export market in neighboring countries, particularly
the protected East African Community (EAC) market. However, the scope for
further industrialization along these lines is limited, as most of the easy
or economic import-substitution possibilities have been exhausted and the EAC
preferences for Kenyan goods have been abolished. Thus, sustaining rapid
growth by continuing this strategy is not feasible. Moreover, this pattern
of industrialization has had some unfavorable side effects. First, the
industrial sector has become increasingly dependent on imported raw materials,
components and spare parts. Declines in exports or deteriorating terms of
trade which force reductions of imports, therefore, have heavy repercussions
on industrial production and employment. Second, the high levels of protec-
tion result in an "anti-export" bias by making it more profitable to produce
for the domestic market than to export. Finally, the structure of production
is relatively capital-intensive and is not sufficiently based on use of



- 3 -
domestic resources, including labor. To maintain rapid industrial growth it
will be necessary to change the system of industrial protection and incentives,
to improve the efficiency of the sector and re-orient industry toward increased
production for export, and increased use of domestic resources.
8.        As a result of the anti-export bias, exports have grown slowly and
there has been a lack of diversification of exports. Exports have consistently
grown at a slower pace than GDP. From 1964 to 1972 the volume of exports
expanded at an average annual rate of 4.6%. Between 1972 and 1974 export
volume increased by an additional 11% and in 1978 the volume was only 3% above
the 1974 level. To some extent this reflects the fact that Kenya's exports
have been adversely affected by the collapse of the EAC. Nevertheless, it is
clear that the pace of export growth must be accelerated and exports must be
further diversified if the balance of payments is not to become a major con-
straint on long-term growth. This will require that the system of production
and investment incentives be changed so that more resources are directed into
efficient foreign exchange earning and/or saving sectors.
Recent Economic Performance
9.        The slow growth of exports and the increasing import-dependence
of industry have increased Kenya's vulnerability to developments outside her
boundaries. The country's economic performance over the last five years has
thus been strongly influenced, if not dominated, by dramatic variations in
the international terms of trade.
10.       During 1974-75 the increase in petroleum prices and accelerated
international inflation forced the Government to adopt fiscal, monetary, and
incomes policies aimed at restraining aggregate demand. These policies were
reasonably effective in protecting the country's international liquidity and
in keeping externally-generated price increases from spiralling out of control.
However, they resulted in a sharp slowdown in economic growth, which averaged
only 2.4% per year, compared to 6.6% during 1964-73.
11.       By 1976 another equally dramatic reversal of the country's economic
fortunes was already underway as international coffee prices, which eventually
tripled, were soaring. The Government decided, therefore, to accelerate the
pace of development. The public investment program was stepped up in part by
increasing expenditures needed to replace defunct EAC corporations by national
entities. In addition, a program of military equipment purchases was begun
to build up the country's international security. As a result, the overall
budget deficit rose from less than 5% of GDP in FY1976/77 to an estimated 9%
in FY1978/79. At the same time credit policy was being eased and domestic
credit expanded by an average of nearly 30% per year in 1977-78. Finally
coffee producers were allowed to capture almost all the windfall gains
resulting from the extraordinary rise in coffee prices. The combination of
expansionary fiscal and monetary policy and high agricultural incomes produced
a resurgence of domestic demand. Economic growth accelerated, averaging 7.2%
in real terms in 1976-78 and the value of imports in 1978 exceeded that in
1976 by 85%.



- 4 -
12.       By the second half of 1977 coffee prices had passed their peak and
had begun to decline and the balance-of-payments situation began to deter-
iorate. The Kenyan Government's reaction was to gradually switch to a more
restrictive economic policy. The growth of credit was restrained somewhat
beginning in mid-1978. In the latter months of 1978 import license approvals
were slowed down to limit import growth. The Government negotiated a first
credit tranche standby arrangement which was approved by the IMF in November
1978. Finally, in December 1978, an advance import deposit scheme was insti-
tuted. However, with a 20% drop in exports due to falling coffee prices,
poor weather and the lagged effect of past expansionary policies on imports,
these measures were too mild and came too late to arrest the deterioration
of the current account balance, which shifted from an exceptional surplus
of US$58 million in 1977 to a deficit of over US$650 million in 1978. As a
result, despite a substantial increase in external capital inflows, foreign
exchange reserves declined by US$200 million in 1978. The restrictive import
policies of 1978, however, have resulted in a reduction in the country's
resource gap and the current account deficit. Together with increased
external borrowing, a recuperation of about KE70 million in gross reserves
has been achieved. However, the prospect for 1980 and, indeed for the next
several years, is for continued strong pressures on the country's balance of
payments.
13.       In summary, during the period covered by Kenya's Third Development
Plan, 1974-78, the country experienced wide swings in its international terms
of trade and in the growth of the economy: sharp deterioration of terms of
trade and low growth rates during 1974-75; resurgence of growth in 1976-77
following the coffee boom; and, deceleration in 1978-79. Overall, the growth
of the economy was disappointing, averaging only 4.7% per year over 1972-78.
These results reflected the inadequacies of a development strategy and policies
which created an increasingly less viable economic structure. As Kenya begins
execution of its Fourth Development Plan, it faces conditions which are, in
many ways, analogous to those at the beginning of the Third Plan in 1974, i.e.
rising petroleum prices, a slowing world economy and a relatively unfavorable
price outlook for its major exports.
The Fourth Development Plan: Strategies and Prospects
14.       The emphasis of Kenya's Fourth Development Plan is on restoring
growth to the pace that prevailed before 1974, while alleviating poverty
through creation of income-earning opportunities and provision of social
ser.rices to meet the basic needs of the populace, especially in rural areas.
The Plan recognizes that pursuing rapid growth of employment and income
in rural areas will require greater attention to problems of smallholder
agriculture and to expanding rural infrastructure. Further, it recognizes
that the process of industrial modernization and expansion through import
substitution has inhibited the growth of exports, both agricultural and
industrial, and that this process is reaching its limits. The emphasis
of the Plan is thus placed on reducing protection and expanding and diver-
sifying exports. Finally, the heavy burden rapid population growth is placing
on the economy is acknowledged and measures are proposed to limit growth.
Thus, the Plan correctly identifies the key problems that Kenya faces and
sets forth a development strategy appropriate for their solution.



- 5 -
15.       Agricultural Strategy.  The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link
between agricultural growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most sig-
nificant changes proposed in the Plan is increasing access to land through
legalizing subdivision of large farms in high-potential agricultural zones.
The Government will also have first option purchase rights on any parcel
of high potential land greater than 20 hectares which is offered for sale.
Any such land purchased by the Government would be made available for lease-
hold settlement of landless farmers. This is a major departure from recent
policy and could have important effects on output employment and income dis-
tribution. Once the status of existing small farms, which had been formed by
illegal subdivision, is regularized, they will become eligible for extension,
credit and other services common in smallholder areas. The Government is also
prepared to assist owners of large farms who wish to subdivide to do so.
16.       The Plan proposes that a National Land Commission be established to
review ways of encouraging land use intensification and labor absorption. The
Plan also proposes that marketing and pricing policies pay closer attention
to the structure of domestic and international prices and that the marketing
system be made more competitive and efficient to improve prices to farmers.
Research and extension services are to be more closely linked to the needs
of small farmers. Finally, in addition to projects to increase larger scale
commercial and smallholder production, a series of integrated rural development
projects in semi-arid areas is proposed to redress the neglect of these areas.
17.       Industrial Strategy.  The major thrust of industrial policy during
the Fourth Plan period will be to effect a transition from import substitution
to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency and export diversification.
The deficiencies of import substitution strategies, including their adverse
impact on income distribution, low employment generation and anti-export bias
were recognized in the Third Plan. That Plan did not, however, contain as
the Fourth does, a definite commitment to a scheduled rationalization of the
protective regime. This will involve further modification of tariffs and
elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a five-year period.
This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over the next few years
when, because of balance-of-payments problems, there is likely to be consider-
able pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protection. It is recognized
that reduction of protection and increased industrial efficiency, while
necessary to expanding and diversifying exports, may not be sufficient. The
Plan, therefore, recommends strengthening all relevant ministries and institu-
tions, simplifying and rationalizing existing export incentives and adopting
an export credit guarantee and finance scheme (paras 29-32).
18.       No fundamental change is proposed in Kenya's traditionally liberal
policy on foreign investment, with the important exception that review and
approval of projects for which special concessions or Government participation
are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and will be centralized
in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls for a more limited
role for Government in terms of direct participation and intervention in the
industrial sector. Development of the informal sector and small industry
will be supported through provision of credit, extension services, technical
assistance and essential infrastructure. Licensing and regulation of small



- 6 -
businesses will be reviewed to avoid any unfair discrimination. Efforts
will be made to restructure industrial investment incentives to encourage
employment and regional decentralization.
19.       Population Policy.  The Plan is frank in acknowledging the heavy
burden rapid population growth is placing on the development effort and makes
promotion of family planning a matter of public policy of the highest priority.
It calls for a coordinated effort on the part of all relevant ministries and
non-governmental organizations involved in development activities related to
family life to increase public awareness of the desirability of family plan-
ning.  The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000, compared to
280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the number of
field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300) and the
number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although Kenya
is doing more to promote family planning than most other African countries,
the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely high (3.9%)
because of strong cultural and traditional factors affecting fertility and
even greater efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline
in fertility.
Economic Prospects
20.       In spite of the generally well-conceived policy measures proposed
in the Fourth Plan, it will be very difficult to attain the Plan's targets,
especially the target GDP growth rate of 6.3% per annum. This is largely due
to balance-of-payments and budgetary problems which are likely to be more
severe and long-lasting than was foreseen at the time of Plan preparation.
The balance-of-payments position is likely to remain difficult throughout
the Plan period for three reasons. First, export prospects are not favorable
for most of the period. It is estimated that export revenues have increased
only marginally in 1979 after their significant fall in 1978. Coffee export
volumes are down because of poor weather and the recent increase in world
coffee prices has not benefitted Kenya because the normal timing of its
harvest brought the crop to market before the increase in price. Second,
Kenya has also been adversely affected by the most recent round of oil price
increases. It is estimated that the average price being paid for crude oil in
1979 was 38% above that in 1978. The terms of trade are projected to remain
unfavorable until 1982-83. Third, there will be a rapid rise in amortization
payments over the next few years because of the significant increase in the
level of commercial borrowing, to finance expenditures associated with
equipment of successors to EAC corporations and other large projects and to
carry out a major program to re-equip the armed forces in 1977-78. Payments
associated with purchase commitments made during this period will have a
substantial impact on the balance of payments throughout the Plan period. The
budgetary situation will also be tighter than foreseen in the Plan. The lower
rate of growth of the economy and of imports will mean lower growth of govern-
ment revenues. In addition, the President in December 1978 announced several
measures which are not included in the Plan but which will have significant
direct budgetary consequences. These measures include: (a) provision of
free milk for students in the first seven years of school; (b) elimination
of school fees for the seventh year of elementary school; (c) initiation of a
national literacy campaign; and (d) a 10% increase in employment in the public
and private sectors in exchange for agreed wage restraint. Payments on
military purchases already made will also increase budgetary pressure.



-7-
External Debt
21.       The recent expansion of government and government-guaranteed commer-
cial borrowing has adversely affected the debt service ratio, which has risen
from 5% in 1977 to an estimated 11.2% in 1979. This includes service payments
on a notional 50% share of the debt of EAC corporations. The debt service
ratio is expected to increase to about 16% in the mid-1980's and decline
gradually thereafter. Debt service payments to the Bank are 14.9% of total
debt service payments; the IDA share is 0.9%. The Bank's share of total debt
service payments is expected to rise to about 22% by 1985, while IDA's share
would rise to 1%. The Bank is presently holding 22% of Kenya's total outstand-
ing external debt and IDA 9%. The Bank's share is expected to rise to 26% and
IDA's to 15% by 1985. The expected rise in Bank exposure is due largely to
anticipated repayments of loans with short maturities. An additional factor,
however, is the gradual switch by other donors from loans to straight grants
(including conversion of some loans to grants).
East African Community (EAC)
22.       The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States,
has visited East Africa on numerous occasions and prepared reports on the
results of his fact-finding work on the EAC Corporations and the General
Services, and the methodology adopted in appraising the asets and liabilities.
In late March 1980, the mediator presented to the three Governments his
proposals for the allocation of these assets and liabilities, for their con-
sideration. The next step would be the start of negotiations among the three
Governments based on the mediator's proposals. According to his terms of
reference, the mediator would be-available to assist in arriving at a defini-
tive settlement. The mediator's report and recommendations on the future
structure of the East African Development Bank (EADB) have been accepted by
the Partner States. The revised EADB Charter along with the Treaty amending
and reenacting the new Charter have been submited to the three Governments for
signature as soon as they are constitutionally ready; this is expected shortly.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
23.       Hitherto, Kenya has received 35 Bank loans, including three on Third
Window terms, and 30 IDA credits amounting to US$1,136.0 million, supporting 57
operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans
totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the development of
common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for industry),
operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East African Community.
Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya
and to the East African Community Corporations, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects as of April 30, 1980.



- 8 -
24.       The Bank Group has assisted the Government in its efforts to restruc-
ture the economy through increased lending in directly productive sectors,
particularly agriculture. While recent sector and economic work has also
focussed on the adjustments which Kenya must make to deal with the changed
international economy, the upcoming Basic Economic Report is expected to
comprehensively address the issues of income distribution, population growth,
and appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policy.
25.       Significant progress has been made in giving the Bank's lending
program a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distri-
bution objectives. Projects approved since July 1979 include a Third Power
Project, a Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project, the Baringo
Pilot Semi-Arid Areas Project, the Structural Adjustment Credits Project
and a fourth line of credit to the Industrial Development Bank. A fisheries
project is expected to be presented to the Executive Directors later this
fiscal year. In addition, a railways project, a fourth agricultural credit
project, and a cotton processing and marketing project have been appraised,
while an urban transport project, a fifth education project, a second struc-
tural adjustment credit and a second population project are under preparation.
26.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.
Progress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project, however, has been slow due
to administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners to participate.
Kenya has also experienced serious cost overruns, most notably on road con-
struction projects, but Government has made funds available to complete these
projects. Current cost estimates for the Bura Irrigation Settlement Project
(now in the preliminary stages of implementation) indicate that heavy cost
overruns are likely to be incurred; the financial consequences are under
discussion with the Government and the co-financiers.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
27.       IFC has committed a total of US$42.9 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit
line for medium- and small-scale enterprises was extended to the Commercial
Bank of Kenya. As of April 30, 1980, IFC held for its own account US$31.6
million comprising US$23.6 million of loans and US$8.0 million of equity. A
summary of IFC Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - EXPORTS AND EXPORT PROMOTION: POLICIES AND INSTITUTIONS
28.       Kenya's total export volume has grown quite slowly since 1971, at
an average of 2.8% per annum. Exports were very adversely affected by the
disintegration of the EAC and the steady decline of exports to that market,
which in 1972 accounted for about one-quarter of Kenya's exports. Overall
export growth has also been held down by the slow expansion in the volume of
exports of petroleum products which are refined in Kenya for shipment to
neighboring countries. The encouraging aspects of export performance have



been the steady expansion of coffee and tea exports and, even more importantly,
the increase in exports of "other" goods to non-EAC markets. These items
include handicrafts, cement, canned pineapples, corned beef, pyrethrum extract,
tanned hides and skins. While this category is still relatively small, about
20% of exports in 1977, it represents the cutting edge of export growth and
diversification and is a good indication that Kenya has the capacity to expand
exports into new products and new markets.
Policies
29.       The Government recognizes that in order to sustain acceptable rates
of GDP growth, exports must be expanded. It has therefore declared its
intention to ensure that there will be sufficient incentives for production
of exportables and that their price will be competitive on world markets.
Reduction of the anti-export bias in the trade regime and increased industrial
efficiency, while necessary for mounting a sustained export drive, will not
be sufficient to attain a rapid growth and diversification of exports. The
country suffers from many of the handicaps common to "new" exporters, e.g.,
transportation difficulties, unfamiliarity with requirements of potential
markets, lack of commercial channels, and insufficient export financing or
insurance. The present system of export subsidies is complex and has been of
limited effectiveness because of the cumbersome administrative process asso-
ciated with it; exporters cannot be certain that they will qualify for the
incentives provided by the scheme. The Government has declared its intention
to simplify complex procedures relating to the promotion of exports including
the administration of the incentive system to ensure that it provides greater
certainty to the exporters. Appropriate measures are being developed and will
be introduced in the next fiscal year, 1980/81.
30.       The Government also proposes to introduce an export insurance and
finance scheme. The proposal for this program has been completed by the
Kenya External Trade Authority (KETA), with assistance from the Commonwealth
Technical Fund. The Government expects that the scheme would be introduced by
September 1980 and progress in its design would be reviewed with the Bank as
agreed under the IDA and EEC Structural Adjustment Credits (Credits 999-KE and
56-KE).
31.       The Government also recognizes that the ability of exporters to
produce goods (particularly the non-traditional exports) in sufficient quan-
tities and at reasonable economic costs is probably a greater constraint than
the growth of world demand. The Government therefore intends to strengthen
the new Ministry of Industry and the development finance companies by improv-
ing their capability to undertake feasibility studies of export-oriented
projects and providing increased finance for such projects.
Institutions
32.       A number of ministries and statutory agencies are involved in making
and implementing export promotion policies either generally or with respect
to specific products. The newly established Ministry of Industry has primary
responsibility for industrial policy and monitoring of industrial activities.



- 10 -
The Ministry of Commerce is responsible for trade development, including
import and export controls. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for admin-
istration of price controls, tax and export incentives as well as monitor-
ing of the Government's investment portfolio. The Ministry of Economic
Planning and Development is responsible for overall macro economic planning
and coordinates as well as monitors the implementation of development programs.
33.       Prior to the reorganization of the former Ministry of Industry and
Commerce into separate ministries, the Industrial Survey and Promotion Centre
(ISPC), established in 1970 to identify, develop and evaluate new projects
and, where possible, assist in their implementation, played an important role
in conducting sectoral and subsectoral studies to identify new project opport-
unities, project feasibility studies as well as industrial policy research.
The Government has recently decided to dissolve ISPC, which at the end of 1979
had among its staff four expatriate advisers, and to incorporate its staff into
a newly established Industrial Promotion department in the Ministry of Indus-
try (Annex IV). KETA (Trade Promotion Division) established in 1976 with
ITC/UNCTAD, EEC and Commonwealth assistance as a government agency through the
restructuring of its predecessor, the Kenya Export Promotion Council, provides
assistance to Kenyan exporters in the areas of product development, product
marketing, trade information, freight problems, and handicraft exports. KETA
has a Chairman from the private sector and 14 professional staff, including
seven expatriate staff fielded by ITC/UNCTAD, the Commonwealth Fund for
Technical Cooperation and the EEC. KETA is an integral part of the External
Trade department of the Ministry of Commerce (Annex V). The Kenya Bureau of
Standards (KBS), after several years of intensive staff training since its
establishment in 1975, began in 1979 to establish and enforce quality standards
particularly of locally manufactured goods, which should increasingly help
Kenya exporters to find market acceptance for their products abroad.
34.       The development banks active in Kenya have also begun to support,
or are investigating how best to assist, industrial establishments that aim
to produce for export markets. Of the five development banks, the Industrial
Development Bank (IDB), the Development Finance Company of Kenya (DFCK), the
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE), and the East African Development Bank (EADB)
confine their operations to the industrial sector while the Industrial and
Commercial Development Corporation's (ICDC) operations cover both the indus-
trial and commercial sectors. These banks have relatively clearly delineated
fields of activity and there is little duplication of efforts in the financing
of the industrial sector. The EADB has been seriously affected by the break-
up of the East African Community and its role is being reformulated. ICDC is
often used by the Government to assist in the execution of its policies.
While ICDC has made a considerable number of investments in large sized
industries, it has begun to redirect its efforts to the support of smaller
industrial and commercial enterprises - particularly in the rural areas
- and to the Kenyanization of these activities. KIE focuses solely on the
development of small-scale enterprises by providing infrastructure, technical
services and credit. DFCK directs its primary attention to the somewhat
larger private foreign owned enterprises, particularly the expansions of well
established ones. Through its overseas majority shareholders, DFCK has also



- 11 -
brought important technical advice and foreign partners into Kenya's indus-
trial sector. The IDB is the predominant institution specializing in the
provision of term and equity financing to medium and large industrial enter-
prises, particularly to cover their foreign exchange requirements. The Bank
Group has provided IDB with four loans totalling US$65.0 million since 1973.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project will support industrial development in Kenya
in line with the Government's strategy under the current development plan.
The project was discussed with Kenya government officials in November 1979 as
well as during January and March 1980. Negotiations for the proposed credit
were held in Nairobi on April 28 - May 2, 1980. The Kenyan delegation was
led by Mr. F. Y. Masakhalia, Chief Economist in the Ministry of Economic
Planning and Development. A Credit and Project Summary is given at the
beginning of this report, and Annex III contains supplemental project data.
There is no separate appraisal report for this project.
Project Description
36.       The project to be implemented over 4 years would comprise the
following two parts:
Part A:   Studies, Seminars and Training related to Industrial Production
I.        Consultants' services to undertake:
(i) feasibility studies of specific export-oriented projects;
(ii) studies to identify and evaluate the production and export
potential of specific industries, firms and sectors or subsectors;
(iii) studies to identify and assess longer-term national manpower
requirements for industrial restructuring;
(iv) studies on implementation of industrial restructuring policies;
(v) studies on the technology to be applied in the use of local
resources and production techniques for exports;
II.       Training:
(i) a program providing for the training in Kenya and elsewhere
of staff from the Kenya Bureau of Standards related to the
improvement of standards and quality control of exports;
(ii) a short-term training program in Kenya and elsewhere in
activities relating to the identification, preparation
and appraisal of projects for staff from public agencies; and



- 12 -
III.      Incremental staffing costs and related supporting services required
to implement I and II above.
Part B:   Studies, Seminars, Special Fund and Training Related to Export
Marketing
I.        Consultants' services to undertake:
(i) marketing studies of specific export-oriented products and
projects;
(ii) studies to identify and evaluate the export potential of
industries, firms, sectors and subsectors;
(iii) studies to identify and assess longer-term national manpower
requirements for export marketing and promotions;
(iv) studies on implementation of export marketing and promotion
policies;
II.       A program providing for the training in Kenya and elsewhere of
staff from public agencies in export marketing activities:
III.      Organization of export marketing seminars in Kenya;
IV.       Support services through a special fund to assist production,
packaging and direct marketing of exports by handicraft workers and
associations as well as to upgrade skills of relevant artisans
through short-term training locally or elsewhere.
V.        Incremental staffing costs and related supporting services required
to implement I-IV above.
Organization and Implementation
37.       The project would be managed and implemented by staff in the Minis-
tries of Finance, Economic Planning and Development, Industry, and Commerce
in consultation with project beneficiaries (Section 3.01 of draft Development
Credit Agreement). The professional staff responsible for the project would
consist of five senior Kenyan officers: an export marketing specialist from
the Ministry of Commerce, a financial analyst from the Ministry of Industry,
one officer charged with the administration of contracts in each of these
two ministries, and a Project Coordinator in the Ministry of Economic Planning
and Development. The qualifications, terms of reference and experience of
the officers would be acceptable to the Association, and their being in post
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Sections 3.07
(a) and 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
38.       The staff managing the project would work in close liaison with an
inter-ministerial project advisory committee which would be composed of the
Permanent Secretaries in the Ministries of Industry, Commerce, Economic



- 13 -
Planning and Development, and Finance (or their nominees) and three repre-
sentatives of project beneficiaries to be selected in consultation with the
Association. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Planning
and Development (or his nominee) would act as chairman of the advisory commit-
tee (Section 3.03 (b) of draft Development Credit Agreement). The project
beneficiaries would include the Ministries of Industry, Commerce, Finance,
Agriculture, Economic Planning and Development, Livestock Development and
Cooperative Development; and such development finance companies and public
corporations as the Industrial Development Bank of Kenya (IDB), the Development
Finance Company of Kenya (DFCK), the Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE), the
Industrial and Commercial Development Company (ICDC), the Horticultural Crops
Development Authority (HCDA), the Kenya National Trading Corporation (KNTC),
the Kenya Meat Commission (KMC), and the Kenya Bureau of Standards (KBS) as
well as individual private entrepreneurs. The advisory committee would meet
from time to time, but at least once every quarter to discuss progress
reports and other matters submitted by the staff managing the project and to
assist the staff in the efficient execution of the proposed project (Section
3.06 of draft Development Credit Agreement). The Ministry of Industry would
have primary responsibility for the implementation of Part A of the project
and the Ministry of Commerce Part B of the project.
39.       After a proposal has been approved by Government and IDA as eligible
for project funds (para 40), its actual implementation would be carried out
either directly by or under the supervision of the sponsoring ministry, and
progress of implementation would be closely monitored by the staff managing
the project.
40.       The proposal to locate primary responsibility for Part A and Part B
of the project in the Ministries of Industry and Commerce respectively (and
coordinated by the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development) takes into
account the need to implement the project in a "national" context, in support
of broad national objectives. The work of the project staff should assist in
establishing priorities and help in the efficient use of the scarce external
technical expertise available in the various public and semi-public agencies.
The project would also assist in improving the institutional influence of
these vital ministries as well as build up their capacity to undertake tasks
of national significance.
Procedure for Approval of Studies and Other Requests for Project Funds
41.       The project staff after taking due account of comments by members
of the advisory committee, would submit its recommendations for final
Government approval to a committee consisting of the Permanent Secretaries
in the Ministries of Economic Planning and Development, Commerce, Industry
and Finance (or their nominees). The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry
of Economic Planning and Development (or his nominee) would act as chairman
of the approval committee. The Government would establish the approval
committee by November 1, 1980 for the purposes of examining and, as the case
may be, approving proposals submitted to it (Section 3.03 (a) of draft
Development Credit Agreement). All proposals would be submitted to the
Association for final approval (Section 3.04(a) and (b) of draft Development



- 14 -
Credit Agreement). The Bank's Resident Representative in Kenya would be
authorized to approve submissions on behalf of the Association. The
general format of submissions to the Association have been discussed and
agreed with the Government. Every proposal for studies would include the
identification of potential financiers and promoters in the terms of reference.
In all cases, after the Government approves a proposal under the credit, agree-
ment by the Association would be required with respect to withdrawals from the
credit account (Schedule 1 para 5 (b) (i) and (ii) of draft Development Credit
Agreement). In the case of technical assistance experts, their terms of
reference and qualifications as well as conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02 of draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Resident Representative in Kenya would consult with the
appropriate Headquarters staff whenever necessary to obtain specialist review
of proposals. The Resident Representative would also determine, in consulta-
tion with the Government and, where relevant, with the UNDP, whether suitable
financing from other sources (bilateral or multilateral) is available for
proposals submitted by the project staff. After approximately one year of
project implementation on the basis of the approval procedure outlined above,
the Association and the Government would review this procedure in order to
consider such measures that would ensure maximum efficiency in project imple-
mentation (Section 3.10 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
42.       In view of the diversity of proposals expected to be financed under
the proposed credit and as the project staff cannot be expected to possess
specialist expertise in all areas, funds would be provided for the recruitment
of short-term and technical specialist expertise acceptable to the Association
to help review terms of reference, consultant reports and other documents
related to specific proposals (Section 3.02 of draft Development Credit
Agreement). The project staff would also be able to request specialist
assistance from such government agencies as the Ministries of Planning and
Finance.
Project Costs and Disbursement
43.       The estimated total project cost, including taxes, is US$6.4 million
with an estimated 70% foreign exchange component. The project cost, net of
taxes, is estimated at US$6.0 million. These costs were estimated at base
prices expected in April, 1980 and include reasonable price contingencies.
The proposed credit, on standard terms, would finance 75% of the net project
costs. While the proceeds of the credit have, at this stage, been preallocated
to specific categories, there would be maximum flexibility in the use of funds
to meet priorities and changing needs as they emerge during implementation.
It is estimated that approximately 425 man-months of consulting services would
be required at a cost of about US$8,000 per man-month. While it is also
expected that most of the consultancy services would be provided by foreign
consultants, special efforts would be made to encourage qualified local
consultants to actively participate in the project either independently or in
collaboration with foreign firms.
44.       The credit would be disbursed to finance (a) 100% of foreign costs
and 25% of local costs of all consultant services (US$3.45 million), (b) 100%



- 15 -
of foreign costs of training and seminars, excluding the Kenya Bureau of
Standards (US$0.30 million); (c) 100% of foreign costs of training by the
Kenya Bureau of Standards (US$0.15 million); and (d) 100% of total costs of
assistance to handicraft workers and associations (US$0.15 million); and
unallocated price contingency funds are estimated at US$0.45 million. All
disbursements will be fully documented except for local expenditures under
(d), the documentation for which will be kept in the sponsoring ministry and
subject to review in the course of supervision missions (Section 4.01(b) iv
of draft Development Credit Agreement). In the case of assistance to handi-
craft workers and associations unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower
and the Association, funds provided to each beneficiary would be limited to
a maximum of US$30,000 or its equivalent and that no more than five benefici-
aries would be assisted under the project (Schedule I para 2 of draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
45.       Local costs pertaining to incremental staff costs, office space,
secretarial facilities, training, seminars, and consultants of the project
would be borne by Government (Section 3.04(b) of draft Development Credit
Agreement). Government's commitment to provide the appropriate local funds in
cash or kind, where relevant, is required as part of the information necessary
prior to the Association's consideration of proposals submitted for its ap-
proval (Section 3.04(b) (ii) and (iii) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
While it is difficult to determine such local costs in advance, it is esti-
mated that such costs would total US$1.5 million equivalent or 25% of the
total net project cost. In cases of feasibility studies, if a viable project
emerges as a result of the studies carried out by a development finance
company, a public corporation or a private entrepreneur and for which financ-
ing has been secured, the sponsor would be required to repay, on the basis of
arrangements with the Government satisfactory to the Association, the cost of
such studies to the Government (Section 3.05 of draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
46.       The Ministries of Industry and Commerce would establish and maintain
consolidated project accounts for all expenditures financed under the credit
for Parts A and B of the project respectively and would retain all appropriate
records until one year after the completion of the project to enable examina-
tion by accredited representatives of the Association. Project accounts would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association
(Section 4.01(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
47.       The Association's support in financing the relevant studies for
export-oriented projects and in assisting institutions implementing the
Government's policy of industrial restructuring, should greatly benefit Kenya's
present efforts in this field. It is expected that studies to be funded under
the project would yield the practical information required to achieve success
with the Government's policies and programs, including those relating to the
rationalization of the system of industrial protection and export incentives.



- 16 -
As in the case of the recently approved Structural Adjustment Credits, it is
expected that the project would lead to a pattern of industrialization which
is more appropriate in the use of local resources and more equitable in terms
of incomes generated and would contribute to more rapid and diversified
development of exports.
48.       The success of the project will depend on whether the Government
diligently and efficiently implements its policy proposals on industrial
restructuring and export promotion. Delays and deviations in the schedule
of implementation of the policies would adversely affect the objectives of
this project.
49.       Risk in implementation of the project could arise from the lengthy
decision-making process within the Government which could cause delays in
the appointment of consultants. It is expected that with supervision of
the project from Nairobi by the Bank's Resident Representative, required
actions can be expedited. Ultimately, the proposed project would not benefit
Kenya if the Government, investors and external agencies fail to act on the
results of the studies to be undertaken. Given the Government's record in the
past in promoting feasible and viable projects, this risk is considered
minor.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Kenya
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Features of
special interest include those referred to in paragraph 40 of this Report.
51.       It would be a condition of effectiveness that the Government shall
have appointed a Project Coordinator in the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development and, in the Ministries of Industry and Commerce, senior staff
members consisting of a financial analyst and an export marketing specialist
respectively as well as officers responsible for contract administration for
the purposes of implementing this project (para 36). It would be a condition
of disbursement that prior agreement by the Association would be required for
all proposals approved by the Government under the project (para 40).
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 21, 1980



18-                                            ANNEX I
Page I
KENYA -SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RErERENCE GROUPS (ADJUsTED ALACES
LAND AREA (THOUsA.D sQ  KM.)                  KENYA                          - 5osT xECtrS ESTIMATE-
TOTAL            582.6                                                    SAME        SAKE     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTUtAL      59.4                                 MUST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOMI
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /a
CNP PER CAPITA (us$)                  110.0       170.0     320.0            306.1      209.6       467.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     143.0        135.0     152.0            a0.6        83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATIONt  MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     8.0         11.3      14.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT Of TOTAL) 7.4          10.2      11.8-            17.1       16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION tN YEAU 2000 (MaLLIONS)                       30.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         94.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS RtACUED                  2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.0         19.0      25.0            18.4        49.4        45.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    142.0        191.0     246.0            50.8       252.0       149.0
POPULATION ACE STRUCTUR (PERCENT)
0-14 rRS.                         46.5         45.8      47.0            44.1        43.1        45.2
15-64 Tis.                         51.0        51.6       50.0            52.9        53.2        51.9
65 TES. AND ABOVt                   2.5          2.6       3.0             2.8         3.0         2.8
POPULATION ROrTrN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.2          3.4       3.8             2.7         2.4         2.7
UJAJ                               3.8         6.6        7.0             5.7         4.6         4.3
CRVDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     51.0         50.0      51.0            46.3        42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PU TNOUSAND)      19.0         15.0      14.0            17.2   -   15.9         11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.4       3.8             3.1         2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TROUSANDS)       ..         30.9      48.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MAtlED WOM)    ..             2.2        ..               .        l 12.2      13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         103.0        102.0      89.0            94.3       98.2         99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                  103.0        98.0       91.0            89.5       93.3         94.7
PROTEINS (CLRS PER DAY)           75.0        71.0       59.6            55.8        52.1        54.3
Of WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       32.0        29.0       22.8            17.9        13.6        17.4
CHILD (ACES 1-4) NMOTALITY RATE     25.0         18.0      14.0            22.3        18.5        11.4
REALTR
LIFE WECTANCY AT BIRTH (TES)    47.0             52.0      53.0            47.0        49.3        54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          126.0/f      119.0        ..              ..      105.4         68.1
ACCESS TO SAn WATE  (PERCENT  or
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        15.0      17.0            20.3        26.3        34.4
UBAN                                ..        100.0    100.0             53.9       58.5         57.9
RURAL                               ..         2.0        4.0            10.1        15.8        21.2
ACCESS U EXCCETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        50.0       55.0            22.5        16.0        40.8
URBAN                                ..        85.0      96.0            62.5       65.1         71.3
RURAL                               ..        45.o       48.0            13.9        3.5         27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10000.0      7S30.0O/  8840.0]j        17424.7    11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PtR NuRsINc ns         2320.0l.a  17o0.o   107  LLh           2506.6      5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER NOSPITAL ID
TOTAL                            830.0/f     770.0      760.0/i         502.3     1417.1        726.5
URB"A                               ..          ..         ..           201.4      197.3        272.7
RAL                                 ..          ..         ..          1403.6     2445.9       1404.4
ADKISSIONS PEr  DSPITAL MED            ..          ..        ..            23.4       24.8         27.5
NOSING
AVRAGE SIZE OF HOUSsowLD
TOTAL                                          4.7                        4.9         5.3         5.4
URBAN                               *          4.7         *-             4.9        4.9          5.1
RURAL                                          4.7                        5.5         5.4 5'5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER tOOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..
URBAN                              2.5/f         ..        ..
RVRAL                               ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         ..         ..              ..        22.5        28.1
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..              ..        17.8        45.1
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..              ..          ..         9.9



- 19 -                                        ANNEX I
?81 2
1.A  t-ACL  INDICATORS DATA S(ET
-MA                    UEFEZ1CE GROUPS (AD.JSTED AVERCL-S
Q1IYA                         - 75T RECENT, STIMAr?
SAKE        SAKE     XE)T HcICa
NT  UC52I       GZOGRAUIC    I2Gc0t        0COME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTLAIE lb       IEC7ON /c  GROUP /d   GROU1P /e
EDUCATION
ADUSTED L'ERLL-[ZMT RATIOS
PIINARY:    TOTAL                 47.0        66.0     105.0             59.0       63.3        82.7
NALZ                 64.0        76.0      112.0            64.2       79.1        R7.3
PIHAL                30.0        53.0      98.0             44.2       48.4        75.8
SECODARY:  TOTAL                   2.0         9.0      15.0              9.0       16.7        21.4
MNAZ                  3.0        12.0      19.0             12.0       22.1        33.0
FEMALE                2.0         5.0      L1.0              4.4       10.2        I5.5
VOCATIONAL 1E0L. (Z Or SECOUDAR)    ..           2.0       2.0              7.0        5.6         9.8
PWIL-TLACM RATIO
ftThIA'Y                          42.0        34.0      33.0            42.2        .1.0        36.i
ECONDARY                          13.0        21.0      24.0            22.9        2:.7       723.4
ADULT LITERACY IATE (MVENT)         20.0/f      30.0      40.0             20.8       31.2        54.0
CONSUtFfTION
?ASSLNGER CAtS PU THOUSAND
POPULATION                         8.0         9.0       7.3             *.0         2.8         9.3
RADIO  CEIVEUS PU TIUSAND
POLATION                           9.0          ..      38.0            44.3        27.2        76.9
TV UCEIVRS PER TOUSAND
POPULATtON                         ..         1.5       3.0              2.3        2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER (DAfLY CgRAL
D=Rzsr) CIRCULATION PE
THOUSAND POPULATION                 13.0        14.0      10.0              5.6        5.3        18.3
CX7mA AWUAL ATTEIDA=  PU CAPITA  1.0              ..       0.4              0.4        1.1         2.S
LABOR FORCE
IOTAL LASOR FORCE (THOUSANS)      3300.0      5100.0   6100.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  34.8        33.6      33.3            31.9        24.8        29.2
AGCULT7. (PERCEINT)               85.8        82.1      79.0             77.6       69.4        62.7
nDUSTY (PERCE)                     3.1         7.1       9.0             7.9        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION LATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               41.2        40.6      39.2             40.8       36.9        37.1
KALE                                56.5        53.8      52.3             53.9       52.4        48.8
FEMAU                               28.2        27.6      26.1            25.t        18.0        20.4
ECOUOIC DZPENDICY RATIO                1.2         0.1t      1.2              1.2        1.2         1.6
-"CEXN  OY nI:VE DINC=
-ECEIVED By
RICEST 5 PERCENT Or 0USOLDS         ..        20.2/k      ..              ..         ..         15.2
NICEsT 20 PErCETrr or HOUSEROLDS    ..        52. 67r     ..              ..         ..          8.2
LOWEST 20 P?rCMI  Of IOUSEROLDS     ..         3.9w       ..               ..        ..          6.3
tOwS 40 PERCEN  Or ROUSENOLDS        ..       11.77       ..              ..         ..         16.3
POVUT? TARGEr GROMP
ESTIMATED ABSOLTE rPOSER? INcon
LEVEL (USS FE CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     122.0           187.6       99.2        241.3
IAL                                 ..          ..      93.0            96.8       78.9        136.6
ESTLhATED ULATIVE POVUT? INCOE
LEVEL (US$ PC& CAPITA)
UN                                  ..          ..  , 125.0            138.4       91.9        179.7
RU1AL                               ..          ..      71.0            71.0        54.8       103.7
ESTSIATED POPULATION B3LOW ARSOLT
POVRTY I2COME LEVEL (PECENT)
urBA                                ..          ..      7.5.0           34.5       6.1          24.8
RAL                                 ..          ..      0.0             48.7       53.9         37.S
Not available
Not applicable.
/   adJusted grow averages for each indicator art popianton-wignhted        sejeomecrl: a3, ,clCding :he et:eet
values of the indicator and the Jost Populated country La each group.  Coveralg  of countries among the
indicators deaends on aVeilabil.ity of data and Ls not unifor,.
fb    Unless otherwsae woted, data for 1960 refer to &ay year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. betwvee  1969
nd 1971; and for host Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa Souch of Sahara;  /d  Low Incone ($280 or lees per capita. 1976);  /.  Lowr Middle income
Ts281-550 per capita, 1976);  7f  1962;   /a  Registered, noc all practicing in the country;   .h  !978;
/1  1972;  /1  Labor force ag*  15-50 years;  /k  urban only.
%oat Recent Estaiate of cxP per capita Ls for 1978.
Augus, 1979



- 20 -                                                                            ANNEX I
__________________                                                    Poge    3
Mijlytkaa    thedta are drwn fromi soarcs  sfaral.' judged the Mat sthsritatlew  and reliable, It ibsIt a*a  he ShOd thet tUoS   q                          t. be itt--
omarbl  bocomes, of the Lak of staoardiacd doftaltion  sd cncepts aned by differact  Istries is coflacqif  th. data. t. data are, insmthalows,
seeful to d-scibo ordan of mlitudo, indicate trinda, mdto  erwetwnis  seetaa ajor differeaces batwe  countres.
M.het w as for sac ioAicator are Pspal,attom-ibtod geometric name, excluding tho estree veluas of the ladicato, sad the -o- pepwe. S
oouoey  o aeboup   hato lack of data, gap eees0m  of .11 indicators fee Capital .farplas Oil heprtaer  -d of Indicators of A-eoa  to Water sad 2wrat
Ddaposal, tualsg, Iscoas Distribetiso  med Powerty for other coutry               Are  papuaLtlce-saigted geamtrbe som          t1deat iilasiin  of tha estr    "Iwoa to
the Met pasatdcatysea feth                                                                       -  a             of data P!is mot IfIr         C   Ist   at be exercUesd
TAM ARIA (thousand sq.ke )                                                                Acsess to  ~oaTse]  seeto   smale      oa.ubs   a                               a 
TotalI surfacs  sar.  -orisieg  sad aream and tnale   eaters.                    oer of psola(otl sae,soUsLXW                   sewS Weneratadispos l 
I      XoAual -  met neaet estiaste of ogrioubaraLI arar d tsmpoearily                   pareeatage  of their erspetive popaLatiom. lasret  dispoac  may 1srrds
or Pseranently for crepe, paturo, market sad kitebom gardens  torh                      the colactis sand dipas,wth or without trsetot, of ~nuvt
II. fallow                                                                              sad easte-watar by eater-borne mstem  or the eae of pit p1rp     sad  ".aiar
GNP FU CPITA  I9A) - dIP pee capita satiates at currect smarkt price.,                    Pos1aisnwr-oi m-Popolatioa diided by  mebo  of peacticiog pb,eioiem
jnfllljtidfby5eas converism ethod as Wold hesh Atlas (1976-78 basis);                     !     flgm    wal school at  ai-vority io,el.
196, 1970,and 197O data.                                                                                     PsmVsau m Mi   - PopLlaiom  dividad by comear of practicing a si
1CSOTc       ImmPIA-daa   onupio    fosca Assc                                        s re gaat maress, practical  arsas  sad assistat                     s.
(coaledlit,e cc -,ntural Ssad tbdro-,-  ac sd g                                      Pousatioj%s M fttl td-ttl   ask                  ocr] - Poplatiom  (total  sets.,
thewl elettrloity) i  kilograms of coal squivalt Per caPita; 1*estrrl &vdet                                       i  re   rcte sero   optal bd   nlbei
,970, -d 1976 dt..                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~public sa  pleats general sand spacallined hostpital sa  rhahIlitation centers.
Hospitals are astabliasmants psernasntly staffed by at loast ame flwsicila.
PIRIXATIOS AIFD VITAL STATIATICS                                              .Istablishoets proudidag principally custodial car  ar  act inlddRural
Tota Polaton,   d-Yar  alllosi) -As of July 1; 1960, 1970, sod                 hospitals ,   'rwce, bclude health sad medical centero cot presseatly staffed
I97tdiu                                                                                 by* p sicia  (but by a .wdlca  -ssltast, more, midwife, etc.) tick  offer
Ura  t ltiff.   "Mrco of toal  - Ratio of urka  to total populatio;                -nptiU-ccto     sod provde a liSted flag  of medical facilitie..
difeet dfotions  fubnns  may effect coparability of data                             4d4gpt4ngg.Per.jH q4fjd - Total -uber of sadssi... to o  disokergew  fin
smog cutre;1960, 1970, sad 1975 data.                                                   Muijtal irided jthiW  omber of bed..
PbMatii1i1    yer   -0   Cor,cot population projectloos  -r  baoed 00              lCiO3
M total poplation by age sod see sod tkwir mortality sad fertility               avreAonfduad  sresprbskld     oa.ukn   h  rura  -
rates. Pro-jection par,"'ters for mortality rates  omprise of tbrwe                  A  nstdcoitsfa    pofidv&asoshrliigquarer  sand
Ive.e aesualng lIfteopectanoy at birth incraeieg with cactry's                       their male -ala.  A boarder or lodger my or my act be included to the
Per., p tIccmlvl  ad feal  lifcp"ctascy stbillaing at                                 housbold for statistical porpoas.
775Peace   Th  preos  o  fertity rat,ealso tac  thrs  ls-el                    Aversem.    tro   sss             o    ;P!&-tta.ubn  sad erel - Arnego teahere
assuadog decliow. io fertility scordiog to income leve  sod past                       pofprson  perf ,c  to       ueo,  o  cora  occpie  cacetionl deellig,
fsoupolnioIg p-rforeasce. lack coutry is then assignd sc  of thes                   res...pectively.  Dew1lltes ..clude cm-posaset struct-res sod unocuied parts.
nice cratinatiose of aortslity sod fertilIty tesode for proectica                  Access ,to Ilstriol    (prnc o f dwwllmy)- ttal urban sand rura  -  Con-
porpeses.veeticealdeelliogscith cbacrciy                                                           liegquarters as Percentage of
~797opafqupp7lo   - t  a  tattoosy population then  Is oo groth                 total, orbs, sod rurl dwellisgs repectively.
bit aei   qual to the death rate, sod aac the age
structuoc  eainscootact  This Is achievd conly atr fertility rates          EIR.EATIQO
miodine t  the rpenetevlof unit oct r-proAition rats, wke.                         Ul3-td Xl9tl      -ts5 Rp5io
each geat-         of _,rplaces itself eoactly.  Tesainrpoi-WW~ipI~f7 a esdfnl   Gross total, ale  sod feacl  enrol-
1atioo sloe-astimate    nthe basis of tho projected charact-istiostoalae  atte pr                                     _y eela  percentages of ropectiv- pria-y
of the popclatioo Io the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility                schol-age populations; accly tooludos childre  eged 6-11 years hut
rte  orpaeetlvl.                                                                      ajusted for different lessgths of priary eduatios; for ooutries cubh
Year tattionary  pulstloois reahed - The year te  stationer  populaion                    aiesletiion erollaent eq seo  110 percent sJoc. son  puils
stow has2er  reached,                                                                   ar  below or shoe  the official school ag.
Pouciletios Dens ity                                                                      Secondr scol-  oa,  l   a  febe  - Comyted as al, c-; sssdsy
-    k    - I4id-ycar Popuatioc Per square kiloetor (100 hectares) of              edctoMr          c  at.  lat   foryerof approvd prima.ry iostructioc;
total area                                                                              p-oides g-enrl  -octi-a, o  teacher training istrutiono  for pupils
Per so. ka. agioult-Ia Iand  - Computed as shov  for agriculturl lard                     asuly of iy to 17 yeare of age; correspondec  courses are gesera.lly
only.                                                                                   .oolded.
P .. latloo RaeStructur (cercnt .- chlldren (0.1l, pa-), working-ged                     Yoatinal enrolimaot(prcea.tt of secoada-o  - vocationa  ailotu-tioss leoede
(15-tb yeas,sdrti red (h  yar _sd cr  op-rctsgss of aId-yea                               technicalI, indat ri    orthr prgram  tIck  operate  edepeodratlyora
population; 1960, 1970, sod 1977 data.                                                    deprtst  of secondary is-titutiowa .
Poulation toh.Rate  (peroet() - ~totl - Anoual crooth rates of total mId-                 Pupl1-teacher ratio - prisery, sad scday-Total students r-1o1ld In
yer  opltions for- 5- 19   195-70  and 1970-f7.                                      Primary   A secondary levels divided byMakr  of teachers Jo the  orr
Possa~tion Gro-th Rate (percet I - orb- - Annual growth eatos of urha                       spondiag  ees
P.polai_c  fr- 1950-bO, 1960-70, and 1970-75.                                           Adult literac   rate    scn)-Literate adults (.ile  to rea  and -rie.)a
npd.                  th-l.isJs~.)pand) - AMous live births Per thou-sod of aId-               ecetg   rtot   adut population aged 15 years sodovr
yea  Popltion  I91W, 1970ij sd 1977 data.
C-.Death Rate jor thouesd( - Ans-iu deaths per tho-ond o' aid-pea                 CGISuIJhpTIG
pope         ~~~1W,      1977 data.Psene Cars Jpe t -asad poultion) - Passen ger cars cocprise actor, core
Gross  eprodc-;t'ionRs-Aerage. number of d-nght-r  acm    ill hear                        setn   es  hn gt Peros  enludes s~a-csow, hoaroes ad silit-ry
in her oorwal rerdutvepriod I f she eoperieoe   reo  0w                                  ei
spcfi -etility  ntsuually five-yea  ocrg eoding Ic 1961),                        Rdoeciensethuadp ulin)-Alltpso   eevr   o   ai
1970, sod I95                                                                           b_odat  to  eea  pbi   e  theasa   of1 tpopuaton; -i-ud  uolricese
rsacly P1.051c  -Accptors. Aesnia (thousnds) - Anc..I nmber of                            r-evr   neatriew  sod in years  he. registration of radi  sesI nsi
-ccptors of birth-control devIces sod- auspices of ostiona.l fsal3y                     efect; data foe recet years my not he roeparahi  niec  alt countries
planoig progre.                                                                         abolished licensaig.
rally Pleasing - Usor  (percent of er deoe            -Peroen.sg ca   f sortd           7 Receiver (per .thy-cad sopuation) - TV reci-er  for hroadoau  to general1
cm of child-bearing age (1-byears  houe birth-eontrl de-ic-                         pblic per tosedpuston; gocludcs uli-eosd TV recicers in costries
to all s_rtd _eo  to oease age  s-cp.                                                  sod in year  te       r~sratio   of TV sote wa  In effect.
FOOD AD MYfHrTION                                                  Na~~~~~~~~~~~ienspr icuato  (one thousand.a ato)-SIh-n  the averge circlatlos
Ind0 . ofi NIOIdC                                                                          of.  al ygeneal iforetenespaprit.efind asaproia   ulcton
ineso  ro  Pouoic  e Cpta(96-1-1(     odoof                pereait                  dcoted primsrily to recoding geea   cs    tisconsiderd to be 'daily"
fsieuLd prdcto  cf a,1ll food bromadities.Prdoctioceclude  see  -                       If  t appeh- at leach fou  tins    wek
fed  o  i  t eleoda  yerbss   fmdte   coe  pr.iss   goods                    Ctoema Annual Attendance Per Capita per Year -            -edo  the cooker of ticketo
(e.g. coffee nod tea erecocoded).  Aggregate prduction of cach cootry                     1d-Igt,y ,  .ldgtdi-                                          c -an-i,
Is based onntiona  oveag   poucer prc-igt.uits..
Pe  aisspl  of calrco(ecen_t of rviraments(  - Coapted f-o                 IAMOR FOREl
or-  qiven  ofntfn  supissaial   nconr   e   apt                              oa  lbrFrethouands) - toonoalcally active perona, inldn   rede
Per day.  Available supplies coqsrise doaestic production, imports less              foeve  and un      qlyed but eo-loding housewive, stdents, eto. Defiit-ot
ecp-te, sod change  Ie stoo    Ilet suPPlIe  eecuIde  -Ianil feed, seeds,             to vaiou  coutries are cot coapablei.
quotltc  usd in fod proesiog  aod losse  to distribution. Requir-                  FreglI    trp      _3-   eale labor fo-  as p-erctage of total labor forc.
acnt, ore  estimated by.PAO base d on phyetongirsl nee ds foe noral                A i;51.t_    trel(-Labor frce in f-cIng, forestry, bhting nod
actIvityo  healt  considering r-cir-aetaI teeperatoe, body nights,                   f-aing as perentage of total labor fore
age sod ... dietributiono of ppulatioo, sod al1oniog 10 percet for                 lodstry (percent)   labor forc  in mining, o-otrutiop,  otfarturin, sod
aseat household lece.                                                             electricity, cae -d gas a  pe-rcetage of tota1lb-ko  force
Per apit suply o proeto seam we  _de) - Protein content  i per              PricptonRt  (percent) -total sicand f                    e   Participatio  or
capita net~ supply of food per da Rt spply of food Is definted as                    actic ty rates ar coupted so total, sale, sodfe l  labor force so per-
sbov.  RqIr_ets1 for all coutries established by USDA provide for                    centags of ttotl, ale  end feale population of all ages repetively;
atnmu    nonso- of0 grs   of totn1 proteis per day ad 20 greas of                i9 - 190  sod 1975 data.  These us. it's petlirlpatiac rates rfbectin,
annea  sod poise pr-teto, of chiob 10  r-  should he eanial yroteis.                  Wge-r  structur  of the  -popultion, acd long tin  trend.  A fcc estiaetes
These stoodards ar  ln   thea those of 75 gres  of total protein and                  arc f_ nootio_el su s
25 gra   of  cia  prot1n as a  averag  for the  -Ind, proposed by PAD              ft4ooly.70paszyd9gr4Rt-   Ratio of popuation unde  15 and 65 and ove  to
lo the Third World Food Sur-e.                                                       the lek- force in age -group of 15-6t Years.
Par anita prote in nuvlo ro  animal sod pulse  - Proteto supply of food
deiefscmail    d pussi a.re  dsy.
Child (saws I-A) Wr,   t   at   per thousad- Annua deaths pae thoussd                    !!71MR,!Zac  n a (ohteshokid -   eivdbyrihs
age erop i-  penr, to  hildren In this age grop; for mcst d'e-5pLa,rces   0pret   ors  20percent, arid pcreat t0 per-cent
opi   con tiesdat  deived from life tabilo..o   oshls
HIALTO                                                                                  POVERTY TAM!?T GRPP
Life Elocosc tatr    it  yas  -_Averge nosIe  of years of life                          Istisetd Absolute Pocet  noW        lvl(P   o opt)-uhcedrsa
ecaon   t bith190  1970  ad 1977. data.                                           Aboa poverty Inc   lee  is" tha Isem  leelbeo  shrM  M,
Infant  1ortality Rate (per th-ased) - Anounl deaths of infants usdr one                  nutritiosally adquats diet Plu e.a...etial -o-food requirnents is not
year of age per th-ousd live births.                                  .                  ffordable.
Access to Safe Water (ocreet of oolation?  ittota  orbs an          Iua   -             Ete-tatd Relative Povertlom leve (op per sIta, -                  bras end rural-
takelr of P-uPie (total  ukc, anrulwihreobosrseto                                          a  relative peorty inoe    e  i   notid  favrg  Per capita
f. ecter supply (Includes treated suf- ac  eters or atreated but                        personal Income of the coatry. UL-has leve  is derived fro  the rural level
u toteinated eater-suc  as that fro  Protected borebles, springs,                     lith edjuetmet for higher ...st of ljivig in orbsres
sod seaitry soIls) -asprCentages of their repetice poplation. in                      Entieatsd Popultio hive  bsolute Pc         yicm lvlIret)-ubnt
so ubanareaa pblicfoutainor  taodpost located not acre  hnrrl-Preto   uuain(ra   o   ua)eoace lt   or
2100 act-r  from a h-.se my he considered asbengci  t  rasnal
accesa of that house.  Jo rurl ara   reasonable  W"..s woul  imply
that the. h_useife oe acters of the household do sot hav  to spemd a                                                            o     -l sod Porta  Dat. Picisiom
diepropotic..ute Port of the daY in fetching the fenily's cater sa.de                                                    sconomdc Analysis to  Projections Dnpet_i,c
kAgut 1979



- 21 -
KU
toconlo ic.Oemloom.ot Deut Swa
1.077
____  AI Ical                   .         ..eJjMfl..           Peoli ingrad                      Averle. Acoo 86|1*b of Ctovt4,. 7    Shar, of
1972      1973     9t74t      1973      1979-    19V77       19        1979         e 193899                    172 1993.8 19S90                      CDFliipk  5  0
A. fetlotl I AOcooihrC
(95111cc 089 at 1976 poo..c)
1. CDP                               2983.5  3084.5    3216.4    3237.2   3417.5    3690.9    4169.9   4474.9    4699.1    6166.1    8290.8            5.0         5.8         6.1          100.0
2. Cain. frc" 7r                     +180.3   +45.0      +45.0    -37.3                 255.7      45.6      10.9       25.7       7.7      94.7          .                .                  6.9
3. CDy                               3963.9  3229.3    3261.4    3199.9    3415.5    3936.5    4213.5    4485.8    4724.8   6173.8   8375.4            5.1         5.6         6.3          106.9
4.  Import.                          1429;3  1394.2    1475.6    1177.0    1127.6    1295.1    1807.6    1721.6    1671.9    1944.5    2504.8         -2.0         1.1         5.2           35.2
5.  Ep-ort  - Voluoe                 1996.7  1143.4    1200.4   1041.6    1142.4    1184.2    1205.9    1239.2    1282.1   1682.5    2188.0            1.7         4.9         5.4           32. 2
6. Ehporte - TT odjotod              1267.0  1290.4    1245.4    1004.3    1142.4    1440.0    1251.5    1230.1   1307.8    1690.2   2282.7            2.6         4.4         6.2           39.1
7.  R.so.rce Gap - 7r dojustd         162.5   103.8      230.2     172.7    -14.8    -144.9       556.1    471.3       364.1     234.3    222.1           .                      *9
6.  Tott1 Coon prtilo                2457.7   2634.5   2519.3    2713.9    2687.1.  2933.9    3721.9    3835.5    3918.3   49S6.0   6801.0             3.6         4.3         6.4           79 7
9.  invocot=                          766.6   698.8      972.3     658.8      713.7     857.8    1049.6    1121.8    1170.6    1442.1   1796.6         2.2         4.6         4.5          23.3
10. h4010041 6artop                    613.0   478.8      592.9     623.7     630.2      912.4    460.0    639.0    770.8    1163.6   1597.9            8.3        14.2         6.5           24.8
11. lot:   c Sarlegg                   606.1   595.0      742.1     486.1     728.4    1002.6      493.4    650.3    806.5    1187.6    1574.5         10.6        13.3         1.9          27. 2
12. GDP *t currect 0US                2019.9  2368.1    2847.9   3151.4    3415.5   4427.6    5507.9    6442.8    9164.5  14079.9   22504.9            17,0       14.4          9.9
0.  0ect0r                                                                                                       a     143 49
(Shot. of 0DP ot the 1976 prlcas)
1. Ml afaotur-ig lcd.trry              10.9     11.4      12.0       11.9      13.3      14.1      31.7      31.7       31.6      30.3      29.4      10.7        4.7          4.7
2.  Agriooltar.                        36.9     36.1      35.3       35.1      33.9      34.4      14.9      15.4       11.4      16.7      20.1       3.3         7.1        10.0
3. other                               52.4    52.5       52.7      53.0      52.8       51.5      53.4      52.9       53.0      52.9      51.5       4.3        5.2          5.5
C.  Price.
1. E port PrIer Trce.                  51.5     60.8      93.4      92.0    100.9       132.6     129.4    142.0       154.4     201.0    268.6       20.8        6,5          6.0
2.  Ip-ort lode.                       44.2     54.0      80.4      95.9      100.0     159.;     122.9        140.2   134.1     199.7    252.7       19.8        7.2          4.8
3. mon  of Trade                      116.5    U2.6      103.7      96.5     10.0       121.5     105.4     101.3      102.9     100.7     106.3
4. GSP DSfleror (US)                   70 .1    76.8      88.5      97.3    100.0       120.3     132.1     144.0      195.0    229.3      271.9      11.4        8.1          3.6
5. Averae bichego Rotc
(US$/KT)                        2.800    2.957     2.800     2.700     2.3o       7.41S.      2.59      2.66
D. Solecte4d lodlcaore                        1965-70   1972-77   1978-85   19S5_90
1. ICOR                                          3.0      4.8        4.6        3.9
2. IMpoIrt tl-sttcty                             1.0    -0.34          .07     0.86
3. Arerago De-ti S9-iqc. Rote                  19.0    20.0        16.9       19.3
4. Avorage S tional Snvinp Rote                 18.6     18.6       16.8       19.7
5. IKrgi- I atlocot SavIg. Rte                   0.22     9.30       0.42      0.16
6. 7 pcrte7CD.                                  29.8     40.9       35.0       30.7
7.  ceseortet./GDY                              20.3     23.3       24.1       22.5
S. Ro=orce Gap/fDY                              0.7      2.8        7.1        3.2                Ae. he-cal
Cr. Rote
E.  Xlsn                                         19197     1975       976      1977       1978      1970-78
1. Labor Prc. Total                                ..   64..0
2. fi  Lploent                                  644.5     691.1    837.5       902.5     911.5        4.47
1 .  I'Ubl~.  mr.nJc,                                                                                                        P rov.
7K0 Ili liel)                             1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975,76    1976/77    1977/78
1.  ecrret r  .- vei                           124.0      141.6      149.0      190.4      226.3       269.2      311.1      474.6
2.   eoc.rct Cpedltores                        110.4      128.7      139.6       162.7      207.4      246.8      285.1      431.1
1.  Rocorroct Su-pl.e                          +13.5      +12.9       F9.4      +27.7      +18.9       +22.4      +29.0      +43.5
4.  De-elrpeet fPojeet
eor-Le4g 6 other
91so11.ooRe Osetipta                       0.4        0.4        0.6         0.5        -          -          6.4        2.0
S. ForeIgn Gr amt                                0.8        1.8        0.5         3.7        8.2        7.0       10.5       17.2
6. 9Srplco Av-ilbole for
rlofocleg oevelopent
Cope.4dllroa                                14.7       13.1       19.0        31.5       27.4       29.4       45.9       62.7
7. Devrlopsent t,pocdlrore.                     46.5       51.9       61.8       67.4        94.2      126.1      124.7      236.8
8. Ov-r-ll 94f(101                             -31.7      -36.8      -51.3      -35.9       -.9S       -96.9      -78.9     -174.1
9. Finodig of the Dfiitt
ftt.Crol 1.-                              10.9        l1.5      24.7        14.5       20.1       43.7       29.8       50.0
Doo-tic
Lbe-Sro  IlorriLeg                         8.1       15.6       21.3        18.9       15.5       52.9       25.0       90.0
Short-tenm  orro. g                       10.0        1.1        6.8        2.9        12.7       32.5       29.7        5.5
Grate                                      0.03       0.02       0.02                    -          -          -
Caea. Lc C.   h Roaca-.
(loot.... .)                                -2.4       -8.5       +1.5       +5.6        18S.4    -32.0        -5.8      +28.6
1/ IM.ed o- 1964 pricbs. .                                                                                       88N, C72 1



- 22 -
ANNEX t
[mm
BIlance of Paywnts and External Assistance
(Million Us$)
Actual                                      Preliminary                         Proiected
1972       1973        1974        1975       1976        1977        1978        1979        1980       1985        1990
A. Summery of Balance of Payments
I. Exports (Incl. NFS)                           560.0       698.6      1005.5      963.6      1142.4      1569.7      1475.5      1630.0     1818.2      3132.5      5449.6
2.  Imports (Incl. NFS)                          632.0       752.6      1237.3     1128.3      1127.8      1412.4      2090.8      22t0.9     2296.6      3556.6      5822.3
3.  Resource Balance                             -72.0       -54.0      -231.8     -164.7        14.6       157.3      -615.3      -580.9      -476.4     -424.1      -372.7
4.  Net Factor Service Income                     -34.1     -101.9      -101.1      -111.8     -130.4      -170.3       L42.4      -133.8      -180.1      -282.2     -352.9
4.1 Net Interest Payments of which:              -15.7       -16.5       -18.6      -21.4       -27.1       -30.7       -25.8       -76.1      -102.2     -144.0      -118.1
(Interest on Public M & LT Loans)           (-20.2)    (-22.1)    (-25.0)    (-26.2)    (-30.7)    (-38.,          (-39.4)    (-52.5)    (-65.6)   (-147.8)   (-193.4)
4.2 Direct Investment Income  (Net)
4.3 Workers Remittance (Net)              )      -18.4       -85.4       -82.5       -90.4     -103.3      -139.6      -111.6       -57.7       -77.9      -138.2     -234.8
4.4 Other Vactor Service Income (Net)
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                        38.1       22.2        19.3       50.0        32.3        71.3       103.1       119.7       133.0      239.9       408.2
6.  Balance on Current Account                   -68.0      -133.7      -313.6     -226.5       -83.4        58.2      -654.6      -594.9      -525.6     -466.5      -317.5
7.  Private Direct Investment                     42.8        89.4       116.5       39.7        55.2        74.4        77.7        87.0        95.8      179.3       288.8
8.  Capital Grants                                44.4         8.3        22.9        30.6       40.3        40w            -           -           -           -0
Pubiic M4 &LT Lo ns
9.  Dsbursem.ents 1/                              79.2        86.4        92.8      119.7       188.0       180.8       414.6      454.3        541.3      695.1       941.7
10.  Amortization 17 2                            -13.7       -15.9       -18.3      -16.0       -30.9       -43.1       -76.9      -96.3       -161.1     -306.3       391.0
11.  Net Disbursement 1/                           65.5        70.5        74.5      103.7       157.1       137.7       337.7      358.0       380.2       388.8       550.7
12. Use of IMF Resources                            0.0        -0.6        53.5       51.6        18.9        43.7         7.7       114.4       76.1       -40.0       -30.0
13.  Short-term  Capital Transactions               5.6        15.1        31.1       31.1        17.4         7.7           -                             -                -
14.  Capital Transactions, n.e.i.                 -65.1       -17.6       -14.6      -24.3      -101.3       -45.7        38.2        62.1           -          .           -
15. Chage In Reserves (- - increase)              -25.2       -31.4       29.7        -5.9      -104.2     -228.         193.2       -26.6      -26.6       -61.7      -492.0
B. Grants and Loans Comnitments
1. Official Grants 3/                             44.4         8.3       22.9        30.6        40.3        40.0
2.  Public N 6 LT Loans                          101.0        98.1       170.1      396.0       211.9       321.2
2.1 1BRD                                          29.0        34.0        10.4      193.5        31.0        84.0
2.2 IDA                                           28.0          -         33.5       25.5        14.0        36.0
2.3  sulti,ateral                                    -         1.1         3.6        7.2        10.8        39.3
2.4 Governments                                   24.4        61.4       122.6       74.4        35.3        61.3
of which centrally planned economies          -          0.3        -           -           -
2.5 Suppliers                                      2.3         -           -          4.0        56.5
2.6 Financial Institutions                        17.3         1.6         -         91.4        64.4       100.7
2.8 Public Loans, n.e.i.
3. Other M & LT Loans (where available) 4/        33.0        23.2         6.9        3.6         7.5
C. Memorandum Items
1. Grant Element of Total Coomitments 5/          44.8        43.6       66.5        23.0        23.0        36.5
2. Average Interest (Percent)                      4.3         4.3         2.1         6.9        6.4         5.2
3. Average Maturity (Years)                       29.2        27.6        36.7       24.6        17.5        25.6
1/  Include  filnncing of projected balance of payments deficit (1978-1990)os medium/hard blend terms.
3/ Includes repayment on military lona.
2I Excludes tehniral assistance grants.
4/ Reptesents a notIonal 50 percent of loan comitments for EAG projects
5/ Representu grant elent of loans.                                                                                                                           FAN, CEIA
October 23, 1979



- 23 -
ANNEX I
KENYA
Debt -l/and Creditworthiness
Actual
1972       1973        1974        1975        1976        1977
A.  Medium and Long-term nebt (4nihuraad nnly)
(US$ Million)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (tWOD  End of Period) 2/           475.1      549.8       633.2       694.5       820.9       970.5
2.  Including Undisbursed 2/                                  709.2      820.2       990.6      1289.8      1445.2      1765.5
3.  Public Debt Service   3/                                   33.8       38.9        44.6        43.8        63.2        72.5
3.1 Interest                                                   20.2       22.1        25.0        26.2        30.7        38.8
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service                                    ..        ..
B. Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                          6.0        5.6         4.4         4.5         5.5         4.6
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                             1.7       1.6          1.6         1.4         1.9         1.6
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                      8.1        7.9          7.5         6.0         8.2         7.3
C. Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                             4.3        4.0         3.9         3.8         4.0         4.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                 7.1       7.1         7.0          6.3         8.2         7.5
D.  Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                    12.5       11.5         7.5        10.6        16.7        12.8
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                           10.4        9.4         6.0         9.2         13.9       10.9
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                           82.7       81.6        80.3        86.6        83.6        76.2
e. Exposure
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements               39.9       49.1        33.0        63.4        45.2        24.9
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements         48.5       70.7        48.9        70.5        53.0        35.3
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                          19.1      23.6        24.9         33.4        37.9        35.6
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                    30.9      38.2         39.9       48.3         52.0       49.2
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                       21.6       28.7        27.2        34.5        46.7        48.2
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                 23.1       30.6        28.6         36.4       48.4         50.1
Outstanding Dec.  31. 1977
Amount           Percent
(US$ Million)
F.  External Debt WDisbursed Only)
1.  IBRD                                                                   276.3               28.5
2.  Bank Group                                                             388.2               40.0
3.  Other Multilateral                                                      20.8                2.1
4.  Governments                                                            403.6               41.6
of which centrally planned economies                                  0.1                -
5.  Suppliers                                                               29.2                3.0
6.  Financial Institutions                                                  84.6                8.7
7.  Bonds                                                                   44.1                4.5
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.                                                       _                 _
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt I/                                            970.5              100.0
10.  Other M & LT Debt 2/
11.  Total Public Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                                 1751.1              180.4
12.  Total M & LT Debt (incl. Undisbursed)
1/  Includes Kenya's share of a notional 50 percent of EAC debt.
2/  Excludes military debts.
3/  Includes repayment on military loans.
EAN, CPIA
April 4, 1979



- 24 -                       Annex II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of April 30, 1980
US$ Million
Amount (Less Cancellations)
Loan or                                                        Bank_/  TW    IDA_/  Undisbursed
Credit #   FY    Borrower   Purpose
Eight (8) Loans and sixteen (16) Credits fully disbursed    101.0            116.7
826      1972   Kenya       Nairobi Airport                    29.0                     0.6
932      1974   Kenya       Highways                           29.0                     0.1
477      1974   Kenya       Livestock                                        21.5      16.9
993      1974   Kenya       Tea Factories                      10.4                     1.7
1093      1975   Kenya       Group Farm Credit   )               7.5                     7.5
537      1975   Kenya       Group Farm Credit   )                             7.5       3.7
1105      1975   Kenya       Site and Service    )               8.0                     6.6
1132      1975   Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry              9.9                     3.2-
1133      1975   Kenya       Transportation - Pipeline          20.0                     0.3
1147      1976   TRDC        Hydroelectric Development          57.6                     0.4
1148      1976   IDB         DFC II                             10.0                     0.3
1167      1976   Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply   35.0                       9.6
1184      1976   Kenya       Education III                     10.0                      8.7
650      1977   Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development  )                  10.0       5.3
1303-T    1977   Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development  )          10.0              10.0
1304-T    1977   Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                     17.0              13.4
651      1977   Kenya       Rural Access Roads   )                            4.0       1.8
1305      1977   Kenya       Rural Access Roads   )              4.0                     4.0
1389      1977   Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                25.0                     14.0
692      1977   Kenya       Agricultural Credit III   )                      20.0       3.2
1390-T    1977   Kenya       Agricultural Credit III   )               5.0               5.0
1438      1977   IDB         DFC III                            20.0                    13,7
722      1977   Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement  )                     6.0       3.5
1449      1977   Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement  )    34.0                      34.0
750      1978   Kenya       Small Scale Industry                             10.0       9.9
1520      1978   NCC         Second Nairobi Water Supply        30.0                    28.1
791      1978   Kenya       Second Urban  )                                  25.0      24.9
1550      1978   Kenya       Second Urban  )                    25.0                    25.0
797      1978   Kenya       Education IV                                     23.0      22.0
S-12      1979   KPC         Olkaria Engineering Loan            9.0                     6.0
1636      1979   Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation               72.0                    72.0
1637      1979   Kenya       Rural Water Supply                20.0                     19.9
858      1979   Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development            3.0    13.0      13.0
1680      1979   Kenya       Telecommunications                20.0                     19.9
1684      1979   Kenya       Highway Sector                    90.0                     90.0
9143/    1979   Kenya       Smallholder Coffee Improvement                   27.0      27.0
959      1980   Kenya       Second Integrated Agriculture                    46.0      46.0
9623/    1980   Kenya       Baringo Pilot                                     6.5       6.5
17991/    1980   Kenya       Kenya Power Company                31.0_'                  31.0
18173/ 4/ 1980   IDB         DFC IV                             30.0                    30.0
9993/    1980   Kenya       Structural Adjustment Credit                     55.0      55.0
Total                            737.4  32.0   366.6    693.7
Of which has been repaid         27.7      -     1.6
Total now outstanding            709.7  32.0   365.0
Amount sold                 11.8
of which has been repaid  10.2   1.6
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDAI'          708.1  32.0   365.0
TOTAL undisbursed                         .6   28.4   238.7    693.7
1/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes US$1.6 million undisbursed grant participation.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Not yet signed.
5/ Net of Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).



- 25 -
ANNEX II
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of April 30, 1980
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year  Borrower  Purpose                  Bank 1/    Undisbursed
------US$ million-----
Five loans fully disbursed                         93.4
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Harbours                35.0           0.5
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways                42.4           0.1
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Harbours                26.5           0.9
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Telecommunications       32.5           1.0
1204-EA   1976   EADB      Development Finance    15.0            5.9
Total                                         244.8           8.4
of which has been repaid                     56.4
Total now outstanding                         188.4
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid    24.4            0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                     188.4
Total undisbursed                               8.4           8.4
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
C. Projects in Execution 1/
(As of April 30, 1980)
There are currently 35 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: US$10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Although international tea prices have dropped from the extra-
ordinarily high figures in 1976/77, growers continue to show considerable
interest in tea as a cash crop. Yields continue to rise, and from 1979/80
onward the appraisal projections are likely to be exceeded. The project
factory building program is behind schedule and, due to cost escalations,
funds from the Bank and Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) loans will
cover only 12 of the 17 factories included in the project. However, the OPEC
Special Fund has agreed to finance the foreign exchange cost of 3 factories
under the project, and CDC has agreed to provide additional financing for the
remaining 2 factories. CDC has also advanced financing for their Fourth Plan
covering factories outside the project, and by June 1980 a total of 15 fac-
tories (12 under the project and 3 others) will be operative. The standard
of Kenya Tea Development Authority's management continues to be high, and
institutional improvements together with strengthened staffing should further
improve performance. An economic analysis of the project indicates that
despite substantial cost increases the economic rate of return on investments
in new tea factories is over 40%.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: US$21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow and recruitment of ranches is
very much behind appraisal estimates. In spite of the satisfactory livestock
price structure which was adopted in early 1978, removing the most serious
constraint to ranch development and viability, recruitment of ranches continues
to be slow. Some progress has been made in organization of the pastoralists
in the range development components. In addition, Government services in
ranch water development planning and in the company ranch sector have been
improved. Only two commercial ranch loans and eight company ranch loans were
approved in 1978/79, and the Agricultural Finance Corporation's disbursements
for coast company ranches are being held up pending agreement on satisfactory
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
security arrangements. Group ranch loan processing also remains slow, and
unless there is a substantial improvement in extension services in the pas-
toral areas, particularly in Masailand, the project goals of adoption of more
commercial and efficient livestock production will be difficult to achieve.
The project continues to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1093-KE/Credit No. 537-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project:
US$7.5 million Loan and US$7.5 million Credit of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project faces major problems. Few new farms have come under
rehabilitation in the past two years for a variety of reasons: legal, social,
political, and financial. Physical rehabilitation work on participating
mixed farms and coffee estates is satisfactory. Coffee estates are achieving
recoveries in yields, and mixed farms are generally expanding areas cropped
and improving grazing. However, achievement of a satisfactory rate of finan-
cial rehabilitation on most mixed farms is in doubt. The recommendations of
the Large Farm Sector Study (financed under the Project) have prompted Govern-
ment to make a major review of its policies, and although reaching a consensus
has proved difficult, Government expects to take a position on the large farm
sector in the near future. Upon clarification of Government policy, the Bank
and the Government expect to undertake a joint review to see whether the
original project objectives can still be attained. Pending this review, no
further recruitment of mixed farms will take place.
Loan No. 1132-XE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation
Project: US$9.9 million 1/ Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1975; Effective Date: September 25. 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The Project is a continuation of the first Kenya Forestry Plantation
Project (Loan 641-KE), to complete the Government's target long-term afforesta-
tion program of 130,000 ha of sawlog and 24,000 ha of pulpwood plantations by
1980. The planting program is proceeding steadily; the cumulative total to
date is 25% below target, due to a variety of reasons, including bad weather
and poor management. The building and labor housing programs are both con-
siderably behind schedule. There has been little progress in the implemen-
tation of most of the covenants of the Credit Agreenment, particularly
regarding the sawmilling sector, the national land use study, the gazetting
of nature reserves and the study of stumpage rates for sawlogs. Government
is now providing very adequate budgetary allocations. Procurement is proceed-
ing normally. Disbursements and total Project expenditure are both ahead of
schedule. The Credit is now fully disbursed and the Loan should also be fully
disbursed before the end of 1980.
1/   Net of cancellation; an amount of US$0.1 million was cancelled on
July 20, 1979 since items which were to have been financed under
the loan were not procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The changed focus of the project towards assisting large numbers
of subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers has led to
a number of difficulties, but the objective of improving the productivity and
incomes of smallholder farmers continues to be met. Late release of credit
funds in the past led to delayed application of farm inputs and expected yield
increases were therefore not achieved; measures have now been taken to ensure
availability of credit funds at the appropriate time. Steps are also being
taken to improve the low rates of credit repayment and loanee reparticipation.
The overall balance between numbers of loanees and infrastructural support--
staff, storage and transport--at cooperative union level has been improving,
and active efforts continue to be made to improve input supplies and marketing
systems.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Agricultural development has advanced well; land clearance has been
completed in about 51% of the area, and 3,725 ha have been planted. Yields
from outgrowers' cane have been higher than anticipated, probably because of
excellent and well distributed rainfall and heavy fertilizer applications.
About 20% of the drainage component has been completed, and the benefits can
already be seen. Although several components are slightly behind schedule,
progress is generally satisfactory. The standard of management of the sugar
company continues to be good, and coordination among the various agencies
involved in the project is improving.
Loan No. 1390T-KE/Credit No. 692-KE/ - Third Agricultural Credit
Project? US$5.0 million Loan and US$20.0 million Credit of April 15,
1977; Effective Date: September 14, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Disbursements have been delayed because of a backlog in updating
loan reimbursement requests by the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC).
The lack of consolidated information on AFC's lending trends toward different
categories of farmers and the current high arrears situation also pose pro-
blems. However, the disbursement situation is improving, and cumulative
commitments in the smallholder and medium-scale farmer categories now account
for almost all funds available for on-lending under the project.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project: US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1977; Effective Date: June 27, 1978: Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, a detailed review of cost estimates indicates
that the Project will experience serious cost overruns; the revised estimate
is about 65% above the appraisal figure, and there seems to be little scope
for reduction. The Government has indicated that it will proceed with the
Project despite the significant burden on its finances. A revised financing
plan is under review by the co-financiers. No supplementary IDA financing
is proposed.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Progress has been made in equipment procurement, and selection and
appointment of consultants for factory rehabilitation, road works, drainage
and irrigation is in progress. Coordination of project activities has improved
considerably, but a proposal, now under Government consideration, to withdraw
executive power from the Kenya Sugar Authority could have a negative impact on
project implementation if brought into effect.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Early stages of implementation are proceeding satisfactorily,
although slow progress in land adjudication will limit the number of farmers
eligible for loans during the first season. Engineering consultants have been
selected for the roads component.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement; US$27.0 million
Credit of June 11, 1979; Effective Date: April 11, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This Credit became effective on April 11, 1980.
Credit No. 962-KE - Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of March 12. 1980; Effective Date: June 10, 1980;
Closing Date: October 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 959-KE - Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project
US$23.0 million Credit of April 25, 1980
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is now about 3 years behind
appraisal schedule. Revised total project cost is estimated at KShs 163.0
million or about US$22.0 million representing a cost overrun of about 27%
in terms of local currency. Government is taking measures to counter cost
overrun and difficulties in making available their financial contributions by
considering the curtailment of project items and phasing activities over the
years involved in the project implementation period. Achievements of educa-
tional project objectives continue to be satisfactory, especially in the field
of curriculum development for basic education. But achievements would be
negatively affected if delays in construction works relative to facilities
serving primary teacher training, development of mass media programs and the
development of a more efficient distribution system for primary school equip-
ment would continue and prevent those facilities to become operational by
the project's Closing Date.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education: US$23.0 million Credit of June 7,
1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Physical implementation of the project has slowed down and is now
about 14 months behind appraisal schedule due to slow progress in the start
of construction (except in the case of the Faculty of Agriculture). Revised
total project cost increased to about KShs 300 million representing approxi-
mately 17% cost overrun in terms of local currency. The Technical Assistance
program as well as the pursuance of educational objectives under the Credit
are proceeding satisfactorily.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply; US$35.0 million
Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Project completion is now forecast about 21 months behind schedule,
and it is unlikely that lost time can be recovered. However, some major
components may well be operational several months ahead of the overall com-
pletion date (now estimated to be 11/80). Although there is a substantial
cost overrun, this is not seen as a major problem since Government is fully
committed to earliest project completion. Regarding key personnel vacancies
requiring the Ministry of Water Development's (MWD) attention, MWD is fully
aware of this situation and, while progress is slow, remedial action is being
taken. An extension of the Closing Date (by 12 months) may be necessary.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply; US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule but completion is now forecast
about 18 months behind schedule due to difficulties with tender evaluations
and delays by the Borrower in contract administration and in concluding
satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision. Most supply contracts
financed by other donors and the construction contracts being financed by
the Bank now have been awarded. Good progress is being made on detailed
design and tendering for the remaining contracts. Bid prices to date have
been favorable, but due largely to the delays there is an estimated increase
of 50% in local currency costs and 12% in total costs. Water supply and
sewerage operations are in sound financial condition. However, the Borrower
has been slow in fulfilling financial covenants pertaining to external audits.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Closing Date: July 1, 1985
This loan became effective January 24, 1980. New tariffs have been
introduced, and management consultants are assisting with implementation of
the first phase of the program to strengthen the organization and management
of the Ministry of Water Development (MWD). Key project staff have been
appointed. Preparation for construction of schemes is about eight months
behind schedule, but MWD is planning to revise the implementation schedule
to compensate for delays.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: US$29.0 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31. 1979
Construction of the new Nairobi Airport was essentially completed
in December 1977, and it has been open to traffic since March 14, 1978.
The loan is 98% disbursed. The airport is performing up to expectations.
Establishment of a commercial accounting system is now underway. The principal
problem areas are in hiring and training sufficient staff for operation and
maintenance, both of which are constrained by a Kenya-wide shortage of skilled
personnel. A training program, prepared with UNDP assistance, was recently
approved by the Bank. Completion of disbursements is expected shortly. The
project completion report is under preparation.
Loan No. 932-KE - Fifth Highway Project: US$29.0 million Loan of
September 6, 1973; Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Implementation started 18 months behind schedule due to changes in
design standards by the Ministry of Works and financial constraints. Con-
struction of 593 km of roads has been completed, and work on the Kisiani-
Bondo road is continuing. In view of heavy cost overruns, tenders for the



- 32 -
ANNEX II
construction of two roads were delayed; agreement was ultimately reached to
delete the Thuchi-Nkubu (51 km) road from the project. The Closing Date,
which was postponed from December 31, 1977 to December 31, 1979, has been
postponed further June 30, 1980 to allow time for completion of the Kisii-
Mogonga road where construction has recently begun.
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 31,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in January 1978 as originally planned. The final project cost
overrun is only US$9.5 million or 11%, the increase being primarily due to
escalation in construction costs. KPC's long-term financial prospects are
quite satisfactory although there could be cash flow problems in the initial
few years of operation because of the preponderance of short and medium-term
loans in the financing package. About 99% of the loan has been disbursed.
The Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980 to allow time
for completion of procurement of equipment related to the operation of the
pipeline.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June_30, 1981
Progress on the Rural Access Roads Program was reviewed in depth
by all donors and discussed with Government during the annual review meeting
held in June 1979. The project is about 15 months behind schedule but is now
progressing satisfactorily. All eight Bank-financed construction units are
fully equipped and are now operational. By March 15, 1980, 481 km of access
roads had been constructed, of which 71 km were gravelled. Annual output
averages 30 km per annum for all units, about 15 km below the appraisal
estimate. Output had declined due to shortage of laborers, particularly in
Kiambu District, and poor work organization in Nakuru District. To resolve
these problems, the Ministry of Works has requested local governments to
supply more labor to construction units, and has assigned a Swiss-financed
engineer to supervise works in the Nakuru area.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan of
April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government's Highway Sector Plan has been
delayed because a critical shortage of funds has caused a reduction in the
highway work program. While this has not yet affected the project appreciably,
the continuation of this trend in FY81 could touch projects included in the
Sector Loan. In general, detailed engineering has been completed for road
construction and upgrading scheduled to start in FY80, and the designs for
roads to start in FY81 are completed or under preparation. The road main-
tenance program for FY80 is in line with appraisal estimates except for a



- 33 -
ANNEX II
90% reduction in resealing of paved roads; however, the Ministry of Transport
and Communications is planning to request funds this year from the loan to
help clear the backlog of resealing.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project: US$59.5 million Loan 1/
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date:  January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Construction of the project was completed satisfactorily in
June 1978 on schedule and within estimated cost. On the basis of contracts
awarded for civil works and electrical and mechanical equipment, present esti-
mates show that the project cost in Kenya shillings is likely to be about 1%
lower than the appraisal estimate. Due to the devaluation of Kenyan currency
in October 1975, however, the project cost saving expressed in US dollar
equivalent will be about 15% of the appraisal estimate. This will result in a
saving in the Bank loan of about US$4.0 million, in spite of the increase made
on June 15, 1977 in the percentage of civil works expenditures to be financed
under the Bank loan from 60% to 80%. At the request of the Borrower, US$3.5
million of the loan has been cancelled. A further cancellation of US$1.9
million has been made along with a postponement of the Closing Date to
June 30, 1980.
Loan No. S-12-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project: US$9.0
million Loan of December 1. 1978; Effective Date: April 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Drilling is proceeding on schedule; specifications for the new
drill rig and accessories have been completed and tenders are being evaluated.
Miscellaneous supplies and equipment have been purchased under International
Shopping procedures. This project is refinanced under Loan No. 1799-KE.
Loan No. 1799-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project: US$40.0 million 2/
Loan of April 25, 1980
This Loan is not yet effective.
1/   Net of cancellation; US$3.5 million of the original US$63.0 million Loan
was cancelled on October 19, 1978.
2/   This includes $9.0 million for the Engineering Loan (S-12) to be
refinanced under this project.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project:
US$10.0 million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The second Bank loan of US$10.0 million became effective on October
9, 1975.  US$9.7 million of the Loan had been disbursed as at April 30, 1980.
The Closing Date has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 19, 1977. Twelve sub-
projects have been approved. As at April 30, 1980, US$17.5 million had
been committed and US$6.3 million had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) continues to make progress in insti-
tutional development, particularly as regards financial discipline, project
appraisal procedures and operating performance. KIE's management is determined
to implement agreed policies to improve profitability, but continued attention
is required in a number of areas; a comprehensive plan of action for reducing
arrears is particularly important. Nineteen subloans totalling US$887,574
have been committed, but no funds have been disbursed as yet under the line
of credit. A small amount has been disbursed, however, under the technical
assistance component.
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LENDING
Credit No. 999-KE/EEC Special Action Credit No. 56-KE - Structural
Adjustment Credits: US$55.0 million Credit and US$15.0 million EEC
Credit of April 10, 1980
These Credits are not yet effective.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
This loan became effective on August 16, 1979. Initial delays in
procurement of goods are likely to cause about a year's delay in project
completion.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE/ - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975: Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall project execution continues to be satisfactory but there are
mounting delays in implementation.  Infrastructure has been completed for the
first 1,000 plots and most beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory houses.
Infrastructure for an additional 2,700 plots is about 30% complete and con-
struction of infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots is expected to begin
soon. Cost recovery continues to be good. One primary school is now opera-
tional, but designs for the remaining schools are behind schedule. One health
center is under construction; however, the Bank does not plan to disburse
against its costs as its design was too expensive and was not approved by the
Bank. The design of the other health center should be submitted for approval
soon. Tenders have been invited for all other community facilities. Technical
assistance components are completed or scheduled for completion in conjunction
with the project. Project costs for the first phase remain close to appraisal
estimates but are expected to exceed original estimates for the remaining
components because of delays incurred.
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress in implementation of physical components of the project is
generally satisfactory. Consultants for detailed design and engineering of
Phase I sites in all three cities (Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) are making
good progress. Appointment of consultants for Phase II sites has now been
completed and design work is underway. The Housing Development Departments
are operational in all three cities with most key posts filled. Recruitment
of other staff is underway. Progress on studies included in the project
is slower than expected. Municipal finance reforms have been delayed pending
Cabinet approval of a paper on the subject.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. The Ministry of Transport
and Communications has appointed various consultants for the design and
construction of all physical project components. The draft final report of
the Tourism Pricing Study has been reviewed with Government and consultants
in the field, and the final report is expected to be submitted soon. The



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Very Large Herbivores Study is in progress. Satisfactory agreements have been
on guaranteed minimum returns, thus meeting the disbursement condition relating
to this component. The anti-poaching units are fully staffed and deployed,
and initial effectiveness of the units appears satisfactory. Draft amendments
to the Wildlife (Conservation and Management) Act of 1976 to fulfill the
requirements of the supplementary letter giving detailed proposals for anti-
poaching operations have been approved by the Ministry of Wildlife and Tourism
and are now in the final stages of processing.
East African Community
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. I/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: December 16. 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30. 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a
training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a joint
project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of shortage
of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have not
been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the
lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
674-EA and 865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has generally improved with increasing throughput; however, port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority
and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports in both
countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.6
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 63B-EA             (US$ million)
Kenya                           0.7
Tanzania                        0.6
Total                       1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                         1.7
Tanzania                      0.3
Total                     2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness: October 30, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30. 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the countries concerned is given below:
(US$ million)
Kenya               2.0
Tanzania            3.8
Uganda              1.9
Total               7.7



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items, except the microwave radio system, have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of
headquarters. About US$30.8 million of the loan has now been disbursed.
The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the
countries concerned is as follows:
(US$ million)
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of March 31, 1978. Some US$9.1 million of
the loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



-39 -
ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
April 30, 1980
Fiscal Year        Obligor               Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
s             1967, 1968
and 1973       Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2      0.7      5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and 1979  Pan African Paper Hills  Pulp and Paper    17.2         6.3    23.5
1972           Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels              2.4       -      2.4
1976           Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles             6.3     2.8      9.1
1977           Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market      2.0       -      2.0
Total Gross Commitments                   33.1      9.8    42.9
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     9.5      1.8    11.3
Total Commitments now held by IFC         23.6      8.0    31.6



- 40 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Preparation by             IDA
(b)  Appraisal                          November 1979
(c)  Negotiations                       April 1980
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:   August 1980
II. Special Association Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) A condition of effectiveness would be that the Government has
appointed a Project Coordinator in the Ministry of Economic
Planning and Development and, in the Ministries of Industry and
Commerce, a financial analyst and an export marketing specialist,
respectively, as well as officers responsible for contract adminis-
tration (para 36).
(b) A condition of disbursement would be that prior agreement by
IDA would be required for all proposals approved by the Government
under the project (para 40).
(c) The Government would establish, not later than November 1,
1980, the relevant committee for the purposes of reviewing and
approving, on its behalf, all proposals (para 40).
(d) The terms of reference, qualifications as well as conditions
of employment for technical assistance experts would be satisfactory
to IDA (para 40).
(e) After one year of project implementation, IDA and the Government
would review the approval procedures under the project (para 40).
(f) The Government's commitment to provide the appropriate local costs
in cash or kind would be of condition for IDA's approval of each
proposal submitted under the project (para 44).



_41 -
KMIISTRY OF tNDUSTRY                              ANW  IV
KIURUTER
|SU:~R1 ARY 
ASS:STANT              ASSISTANIT
| INISTER             mn;%sTm  
Emmsllis~~~~wl ~sTAZIARDS                        INDUSTRIA        DEVLIHN
QUJALITt         RESAC           PINS NCI
CONTROL                         INSTITUTIONS
INDUSTRIAL IDPNRTTRAIOEPPENECRINLUTRLA
AIINISTRATION          INDU STRIAL EXEsO          TADININ            PLANNING, P RROJENCT      IDUCSNTTRIAL
REGULATION           |PLANION                   PF PIEO             DEVELOPLEY              INFORMOTION
&CONTROL            IMPLEMENTATIO                                          'IT                SYSTEM
LllUSltRTAL PROTECTION    PROJECT APISAL            PERSONNEL          PROJECT STUDIES            MARKCET RESEARCII
AND ADMINISTRATION      INDUSTRIAL TRAINING &       ACCOUNTS           TECHNOLOGY APPLICATION    LIBRARY & REGISTRIES
ADINDUSTRIALTIMORT      ENTREPRENEURIAL DEIV.       TRAINING           PLANNING, PROGRANMING     DOCUMNTATION
INTERNAL INDUSTRIAL
ADMINISTRATION          INDUSTRIAL MANAGEME
PROJECT IPLEMENTATION
PROJECT NEGOTIATIONS    PROJECT FINANCING
SECRETARIAT TO:         JOINT VENTURE NEGOTIATION
I.P.C.
N.P.C.



- 42 -
ANNEX V
|  IlltSTER 
HUhIS?3R                              _               | IHINXSTERI|:_
W EN  RE                        TZj           S7ARToRY BOARDS KNTM
CIM-MRCE    ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ENTO,TCCAND OTHER
TFIKANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
DlRECTOR OF                      | DIRECTOR OF                ~~~~~~~~~~DEPUTY SECRLETARY
INTERNAL TRADE                   | EYTERNAL TRADE              ~~~~~~~~~~(ADN1LN) IN-C)LARGE
|   |         l                                    t       r          E          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF PARASTATALS
WEIGHTS AND       MARKET RESEARCH/        TRADE DEVELOPMENT    I                   TRADE       TRADE POLICY &      AIDMINISTRATION
ME'ASURES         Ih'FORUIATION SYS-      (41 DIST'RICTS) EX-                     RFtTO        EXTERNAL TRADE       HEADQUARTERIS
(41 DISTBICTS TEN5 AND ESSEN          TENSION 6 TRAININ                                   RELATIONls
TLAL COMNIODITIES      (Kenya Inotitute *                      (R ETA)      (COIPIERC ALPFbE
ofaufne a Ttza i,8                                 ATTACHES)
fPORT/  A             P
EXPOR     SECTTON      SECTION|



