                          DOCUMENTS
                          D t---      J   CREDIT NUMBER 1045 KE




Development Credit Agreement
  (Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project)



                      between


                 REPUBLIC OF KENYA


                        and


       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




       Dated                              ,1980
                                                CREDIT NUMBER 1045 KE


                     DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT

      AGREEMENT, dated               /            , 1980, between
 REPUBLIC OF KENYA (herein4ater 611ed the Borrower)
                                                     and INTERNA-
 TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
                                             called the Associa-
 tion).

                              ARTICLE I

                    General Conditions; Definitions

      Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement
                                                        accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable
                                                     to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
                                                  March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they
                                              were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable
                                             to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter
                                                        called the
General Conditions).

     Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms
                                                  defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings
                                                therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the
                                              following meanings:
     (a)  "MI",  "MC",  "MF" and "MEPD" mean, respectively, the
Borrower's Ministry of Industry, Ministry
                                             of Commmerce, Vice
President's Office and Ministry of Finance,
                                                and Ministry of
Economic Planning and Development;

     (b) "MI-MC-MF-MEPD Approval Committee" means
                                                     the commiteee
to be established pursuant to Section 3.03 (a)
                                                 of this Agreement
and consisting of representatives of MI, MC, MF and
                                                    MEPD;
     (c) "KBS"   means the Kenya Bureau of Standards a semi-
autonomous public entity established and operating
                                                    under the
Borrower's Standards Act of 1973;

     (d) "MA," "ML," and "MOCD" mean, respectively,
                                                        the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of
                                              Livestock Develop-
ment and Ministry of Cooperative Development;

      (e) "Development Finance     Companies" and "Public Corpor-
ations" mean, respectively, such   development finance companies and
public corporations established    and operating under the laws of
the Borrower which are potential    beneficiaries under the Project;
                               -2-


     (f)  "Project Beneficiaries" means the government ministries
comprising MI, MC, MF, MA, ML, MOCD and MEPD, private entre-
preneurs, handicraft workers and associations, Development Finance
Companies and Public Corporations and any other entity as the
Borrower and the Association shall agree, which may make proposals
pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement and be beneficiaries of
the technical assistance and training under the Project pursuant
to the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and

     (g) "PAC" means the Project Advisory Committee established
pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II

                            The Credit

      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on  the  terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren%ies equiva-
lent to four million five hundred thousand dollars ($4,500,000).

     Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.

      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish.    The
Association shall promptly  notify the Borrower of such later
date.

      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a* service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.

     Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable    semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

     Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
                                                           each
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on
                                 -3-


 January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1990,
                                                        and ending
 January 15, 2030, each installment to and including
                                                      the install-
 ment payable on January 15, 2000, to be one-half
                                                   of one per cent
 (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
                                                installment there-
 after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
                                                 of such principal
 amount.


      Section 2.07. The currency of the United
                                               States of America
 is hereby specified for the purposes of
                                            Section 4.02 of the
 General Conditions.

                             ARTICLE III

                      Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01.    The Borrower shall carry out or cause the
Project to be carried out through
                                    senior officials of MI, MC,
MF and MEPD in consultation with the Project Beneficiaries,
                                                             with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
                                                 with appropriate
administrative and financial practices,
                                             and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
                                              services and other
resources required for the purpose.


      Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower and
                                                          the Project
Beneficiaries   in carrying out the Project,    the Borrower shall
employ training, marketing, management and industrial
                                                          consultants
and experts and such other consultants and
                                                 experts as may be
required, whose qualifications, experience and
                                                     terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
                                                   the Borrower and
the Association.


     Section 3.03. Not later than November 1,    1980,   the Borrower
shall establish and thereafter maintain:


      (a) the MI-MC-MF-MEPD Approval Committee referred
                                                             to in
paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement
                                                 consisting of the
Permanent Secretaries of MI, MC, MF and MEPD
                                                   (or their duly
designated and authorized nominees who are expected
                                                      to be senior
officials, preferably not below the rank of an
                                                Under Secretary or
its equivalent) and responsible for, inter alia,
                                                 examining and, as
the case may be, approving such activities under
                                                  Parts A and B of
the Project as shall have been identified
                                              and proposed to be
carried out by the Project Beneficiaries. The
                                               Permanent Secretary
                                 -4-


of MEPD or his nominee shall act as Chairman of the Approval
Committee.

     (b) the PAC referred to in paragraph (g) of Section 1.02
of this Agreement, whose function shall be to advise and assist
the staff within MI, MC and MEPD responsible for managing the
Project (hereinafter called the Management Staff), shall con-
sist of the respective Permanent Secretaries of MI, MC, MEPD
and MF (or their duly designated and authorized nominees who are
expected to be senior officers preferably not below the rank of an
Under Secretary of its equivalent) and three duly authorized
representatives of the Project Beneficiaries, other than Govern-
ment ministries, to be selected in consultation with the Associa-
tion. The Permanent Secretary of MEPD or his nominee shall act as
Chairman of the PAC.

     Section 3.04. (a) For the purposes of implementing Parts A
and B of the Project, the Borrower shall, through the MI-MC-MF-
MEPD Approval Committee, promptly submit to the Association for
its review and approval, a report in form and substance satis-
factory to the Association, on such activities as shall have been
proposed by the Project Beneficiaries and examined and approved by
the MI-MC-MF-MEPD Approval Committee pursuant to Section 3.03 (a)
of this Agreement.

     (b)  Together with each report submitted to the Association
pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement, and without
                                                                    of
limitation or restriction upon the generality of Section 3.01
this Agreement, the Borrower      shall  forward  to the  Association
documented statements, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, specifying (i) the locally procured items (including
office facilities, buildings, secretarial and professional staff,
                                                                   the
and technical and consultancy services) required to carry out
                                            being submitted, and (ii)
proposed activity for which a report is
the amount of local funds required to meet the cost of such
locally procured items, and (iii)     the arrangements made or to be
made by the Borrower for the provision of such locally procured
items.

      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall enter into arrangements
                                                               and
 satisfactory to the Association providing for the timely
                                                       carried out
 adequate recovery of the cost associated with studies
 under the Project which shall have resulted for a Development
 Finance Company, a Public Corporation or a private entrepreneur,
                                                          obtained
 in a viable project for which financing shall have been
                                   -5-


by such Development Finance Company, Public Corporation or private
entrepreneur.

     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such measures
as shall be required to ensure that (i) the Management Staff
prepares and submits to the PAC semi-annual reports on the pro-
gress of the Project, (ii) the PAC efficiently and punctually
provides advisory assistance to said Management Staff as and when
required, and (iii) the PAC meets at least at quarterly intervals
to review and discuss the progress reports and other matters
submitted by the Management Staff and thereupon recommends to the
Management Staff such action as may be required to ensure the
efficient execution of the Project.

     Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall employ five senior
officers, whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference
shall be satisfactory to the Association, as follows:

            (i)   a financial analyst within MI;

           (ii)   an export   marketing   specialist   within MC;   and

          (iii)   one senior officer within MI and one senior officer
                  within MC, each responsible for the negotiation,
                  administration and exEcution of contracts under the
                  Project;

          (iv)    one senior officer within MEPD, who shall be desig-
                  nated Project Coordinator, and shall be responsible
                  for coordinating the activities of MI and MC in
                  implementing Parts A and B of the Project respec-
                  tively.

    (b)    The Borrower shall:

           (i)    take all reasonable measures within its   powers to
                  facilitate the work of the consultants and experts
                  employed pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement
                  in the performance of their services for the
                  Project and make available to them all information
                  relevant to the Project; and

          (ii)    promptly inform the Association if it proposes (a)
                  to suspend payments under, or terminate any con-
                  tract with, such consultants and experts or (b) to
                                    -6-


                 require, or agree to, the substitution of            senior
                 personnel of said consultants and experts.

     Section 3.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.

     Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports (including copies of reports and documents prepared by
the consultants and experts employed pursuant to Section 3.02
of this Agreement), contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for each Part of the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request.

      (b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause the Project
Beneficiaries to maintain records and procedures adequate to
record and monitor the progress of each Part of the Project
(including its    cost and the benefits to be derived from it),             to
identify  the  services  financed  out   of  the   proceeds    of  the Credit,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)              shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives          to  visit    the facilities
included  in   the  Project  and  to   examine    the   goods    and services
financed out of the proceeds         of   the   Credit     and  any  relevant
records and documents; (iii)     shall    furnish    to  the   Association  at
semi-annual intervals copies of         the   progress     reports   submitted
pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement,               together with the
recommendations and comments, if any, made         with   respect thereto by
the PAC; and (iv) shall furnish to the Association at regular
intervals all such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,              the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the services financed out of
such proceeds.

     (c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
                                      -7-


Credit Agreement     and   the    accomplishment of   the   purposes of   the
Credit.

     Section 3.10. Not later than October 1, 1981, the Borrower
and the Association shall review and consult with each other on
the adequacy of the procedures set forth in Section 3.04 of this
Agreement and in paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
and thereafter respectively take all such measures as may be
required and agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association,
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project.


                                   ARTICLE IV

                                 Other Covenants

     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower, Development Finance
Companies and other public sector instrumentalities responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.

     (b)    The Borrower shall cause MI and MC:

            (i)   to establish and maintain consolidated accounts
                  in respect of Parts A and B of the Project respec-
                  tively with records adequate to reflect in accord-
                  ance with consistently maintained appropriate
                  accounting practices all expenditures to be
                  financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;

           (ii)   to maintain, as part of the records referred to
                  in sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph, separate
                  accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of
                  which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
                  Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
                  ture; and

       (iii)      1. to have their respective accounts and financial
                  statements for each fiscal year audited, in accord-
                  ance with sound auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Association; 2. to furnish to the Association
                                -8-


                as soon as available, but in any case not later
                than six months after the end of each such year,
                (A) certified copies of their respective financial
                statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the
                Report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                have reasonably requested; and 3. to furnish to the
                Association such other information concerning their
                respective accounts and financial statements and
                the audit thereof as the Association shall from
                time to time reasonably request; and


         (iv)   to retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
                all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
                account of which withdrawals are requested from the
                Credit   Accoult on   the   basis   of certificates   of
                expenditure, and to enable the Association's
                accredited representatives to examine such records.

                              ARTICLE V

                    Effective Date; Termination


     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have designated and
effectively appointed the five senior officers referred to in
Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement.


     Section 5.02. The date                 /               hereby
                                                        issCZ>PA)
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General  Condi-
tions.

                             ARTICLE VI

            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses

     Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time
being responsible for finance is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
                                  -9-


     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

     For the Borrower:
          The Treasury
          P.O. Box 30007
          Nairobi
          Kenya
          Cable address:                         Telex:
               FINANCE                               22003
               Nairobi
    For the Association:
         International Development Association
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America
          Cable address:                         Telex:

               INDEVAS                               440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                      248423 (RCA) or
                                                      64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.

                    REPUBLIC OF KENYA



                    By                      6b               GC-
                                        Authorized Representative



                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                           Regional Vice President
                                                    Eastern Africa
                                 -   10    -




                                SCHEDULE 1

                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit

1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                  Amount of the
                                 Credit Allocated              % of
                                  (Expressed in           Expenditures
      Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed

(1)   Consultants'                        3,450,000      100% of for-
      services                                           eign expendi-
                                                         tures and 25%
                                                         of local ex-
                                                         penditures

(2)   Training, and                            300,000   100% of for-
      seminars (excluding                                eign expendi-
      Category (4) below)                                tures

(3)   Support services for                     150,000   100%
      handicraft workers
      and associations

(4)   Training for staff                       150,000   100% of for-
      of KBS                                             eign expendi-
                                                         tures

(5)   Unallocated                              450,000


                 TOTAL                4,500,000



2.   For the purposes of withdrawals under Schedule 1 Category
(3), unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, such withdrawals shall be limited to amounts not more than
US$30,000 or its equivalent for each eligible Project Beneficiary,
of whom there shall not be more than a total of five under Part B
(7) of the Project.
                               -   11   -




3.   For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods and services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and (b) the
term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods and services supplied from the terri-
tory of the Borrower.

4.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on services, or on the
importation, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Association.

5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) in
respect of payments made for expenditures under the Project unless
the Association shall have (i) approved the activity proposed to
be carried out under the Project, and (ii) been satisfied that all
the requirements set forth in Sections 3.04 (a) and 3.04 (b)
of this Agreement relating to the proposed activity have been
met.

 6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
in consultation with the Borrower that the amount of the Credit
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Association may, in consultation with the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Association are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
                              -   12   -



7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
                                  -   13   -



                             SCHEDULE 2

                   Description of the Project

     The Project is designed to provide the Borrower with techni-
cal assistance and training, and assist the Borrower in carrying
out such marketing and feasibility studies as shall promote the
Borrower's exports of industrial and manufactured goods. The
Project also includes support services to assist handicraft
workers and associations. Part A of the Project shall be imple-
mented by the Borrower's Ministry of Industry and Part B of the
Project by the Borrower's Ministry of Commerce. The Project
consists of the following Parts:


Part A:   Studies, Seminars and Training Related                to Industrial
          Production


1.   Feasibility studies of export-oriented projects.

2.   Studies to identify and evaluate the production and               export
potential of industries, firms and sectors or subsectors.

3.   Studies to identify    and       assess   manpower   requirements     for
industrial restructuring.

4.   Studies on means of implementation of policies relating
to industrial restructuring.

5.   Studies on the technology to be applied               in    the use   of
local resources and production facilities.

6.   A training program providing for the training of KBS staff in
activities related to the improvement of standards and quality
control of exported goods.

7.   A training program providing for the training in Kenya and
elsewhere of staff of Project Beneficiaries in activities relating
to identification,    preparation and appraisal of industrial
projects.

8.   A staffing program to implement Parts A.1 through A.7 of the
Project.
                                       -   14   -



Part B:     Studies,      Seminars         and Training Related to Export
            Marketing

1.   Marketing studies         of    export-oriented goods          and export-
oriented projects.

2.   Studies to identify and evaluate the                  export   potential    of
industries, firms, sectors and sub-sectors.

3.   Studies to identify         and       assess   manpower   requirements     for
export promotion.

4.   Studies on means of        implementation of          policies relating to
export promotion.

5.   A training program providing for the training in Kenya and
overseas of staff of Project Beneficiaries in export marketing
activities.

6.   Organization of export marketing seminars in Kenya.

7.   Support services through a special fund to assist production,
packaging and direct marketing of exports by handicraft workers
and associations as well as upgrade skills of relevant artisans
through short term training in Kenya and elsewhere.

8.   A staffing program to implement Parts B.1 through B.5 of the
Project.




     The   Project   is   expected   to     be completed    by August   31,1984.
                          ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT


                   CERTIFICATE


                                        is a true
    I hereby certify that the foregoing
                                              Interna-
  copy of the original in the archives of the
  tional Development Association.

     In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
   cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
   thereunto the         fK      day of

   1980.




                                  FOR SECRETARY
