RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                      Report No. P-60
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 29, 1968



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOM1IIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KIYA
FOR A SECOND HIGIHAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $10.7 million to
the Republic of Kenya.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In September 1966, the International Development Association
received a request fram the Kenya Government for a credit to finance
the detailed engineering and construction of trunk roads and detailed
engineering of secondary/feeder roads. In order to insure that the cost
estimates were reliable, we postponed appraisal of the project until the
detailed engineering of the trunk roads was completed. An appraisal
team visited Kenya during June 1967. Negotiations took place in Washington
in April 1968. The Kenya delegation was composed of Mir. Kibe, of the
Treasury, Messrs. Ouko, Radier and Manners, of the 4inistry of Works, and
Mr. Dunlap, legal consultant.
3.        Negotiations were also held with the Kenya Government representa-
tives recently on a proposed development credit of $2.1 million for a tea
development project. My Report and Recommendation on the tea project is
being distributed to the Executive Directors simultaneously with this
report. The proposed credit for the second highway project and the pro-
posed tea credit would be the seventh and eighth credits to Kenya and
would bring the total IDA financing there to $39.0 million. A summary
of the Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya and to the East African Common
Services Authority as of April 30, 1968, and commzents on the status of
active projects for which Bank/IDA lendings were made, are given in
paragraphs 5-9 of my Report and Recommendation on the proposed tea develop-
ment project.
4.        Two new projects, one for railways and the other for harbors,
are being prepared for submission to the Bank.
5.        Another IDA credit to Kenya amounting to $3.6 million for
livestock development has been negotiated and will be presented to the
Executive Directors in the near future. Wie have under consideration a
project for the development of Nairobits water supply system and a
secondary/feeder road project.
6.        Since December 1966, IFC has invested in loans and equity
participation, amounting to $3.1 million,in the Kenya Hotel Properties
Ltd. for development of hotels and game park lodges. IFC has also been
approached by the Government and other interested parties on the develop-
ment of a pulp and paper project.



- 2 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
7.        BOaRO1ER:           The Republic of Kenya
PURPOSE-            To help finance the detailed engineering
and reconstruction of trunk roads and
bridges, the detailed engineering of
secondary/feeder roads, and provision of
specialists for a staff training scheme.
AMOUN:              US $10.7 million equivalent in various
currencies.
A4ORTIZATION:       50 years including ten-year grace period,
in semi-annual payments beginning
September 1, 1978 and ending I-iarch 1, 2018.
SERVICE CHARGE:     3/4 of 1%.
PART III - THE PRO-J-ECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Second Highway Project - Kenya"
(TO 631a, dated Nay 28, 1968) is attached.  The proposed project con-
sists of (i) the reconstruction of eleven sections of trunk roads (285
miles) including design and supervision and replacement of ten single-
lane bridges by two-lane structures, (ii) the detailed engineering of
fourteen secondary/feeder roads (266 miles), and (iii) provision of
specialists for a staff training scheme designed to train IKenyans for
senior executive positions in the linistry of Works.   The roads included
in the project are important links in the country's highway network.
They are fairly widely dispersed through the more populated and produc-
tive areas and will serve important agricultural and tourist centers.
9.        The Roads Branch of the Ministry of Works would have overall
responsibility for execution of the project. There is a shortage of
senior staff in the Roads Branch due to the departure of expatriates,
and the staff training scheme included in the project is designed to
help solve this problem. The design and supervision of construction
of the trunk roads is being carried out by consultants, and construction
will be by contractors selected on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
10.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $16.2 million
and the proposed IDA credit of $10.7 million would cover the foreign
exchange component (66% of the total cost). The rate of return on the
reconstruction of trunk roads, which accounts for about 90% of the total
cost of the project, is estimated at 18%. Under the special circumstances
outlined in the following paragraphs, it is proposed to reimburse about
$1.1 million for expenditures undertaken before the date on which this
credit is signed.



- 3 -
11.       Firstly, it is proposed to reimburse about $318,000 of expendi-
tures incurred for the detailed engineering of the roads being financed
under the project which has been proceeding since December 1966. This
detailed engineering had to be campleted before the amount of the con-
s;t,ructinn crodit could be determined, and consideration was given to the
alternative of extending a special engineering credit to cover these
expenditures, to be refunded out of the subsequent construction credit.
However, the Kenyan Government was prepared to finance the detailed
engineering expenses on an interim basis on the assurance that a recom-
mendation would be made to the Executive Directors for eventual reimburse-
ment.
12.       In addition, it is proposed to reimburse about $787,000 of con-
struction and supervision expenditures on two road sections (trunk roads
No. 1 and No. 2 on the map attached to the Appraisal Report). It happens
that road No. 1 was built to gravel standard under a previous IDA credit
(No. 70-KE) but subsequent estimates of traffic growth justified a
decision to pave this road. At the time this decision was taken, it
became apparent that substantial savings would be achieved if the con-
tractor already on the job was asked to undertake this additional work,
as well as similar paving work on the neighboring trunk road No. 2. The
Government duly consulted us on the proposed action and, taking into
account the particular circumstances, we indicated that a recommendation
would be made to the Executive Directors to provide for reimbursement of
these expenditures if a further highway credit were approved.
13.       Altogether contracts have been awarded by the Government for
10 of the 11 road sections in the project, covering about 85% of the
construction work. However, no payments have yet been made on contracts
other than those for Trunk Roads No. 1 and No. 2.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRU1ENTS A1kD AUTHORITY
14.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic
of Kenya and the Association and the Report of the Committee, provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement conforms generally to the pattern of the Associa-
tion's development credits for highway projects.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
15.       An Economic Report entitled "Prospects for Economic Development
in Kenya" (Volume II of AF-58b, dated August 31, 1967) was distributed to
the Executive Directors at the beginning of September last year. At the
end of March this year, an Economic Memorandum "Recent Developments in
the East African Community, Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda" (AF-74) was also
distributed.



- 4 -
16.       The Economic Memorandum was originally prepared for the first
plenary meeting of the Consultative Group for East Africa, which took
place in Paris, April 22-26. This is the first time a consultative group
has been formed for three countries and a regional community. The countries
taking part were Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Nether-
lands, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom and United States.  Representatives
of the African Development Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the
United Nations Development Program were present. Representatives of other
public agencies and private trusts were present at the informal sector
discussions on Agriculture, Education and Transport, which were held in
London, March 18-22. Both the Paris and London meetings resulted in a
better understanding of the development problems and needs of the re-
cipient countries, and are likely to show results in improving the coordina-
tion of aid to all three East African countries and the East African Con-
munity. There was general agreement that the Consultative Group for East
Africa should be continued, but the forms of consultations are likely to
be modified and varied.
17.       The performance of the economy has been satisfactory and the
public finances are being reasanably well handled. The future prospects
for development in Kenya remain fairly bright, although, as the Economic
Memorandum points out, recent measures to increase the Africanization of
the private sector of the economy are likely to have some adverse effects
upon development during the transitional period. Nevertheless, the average
growth of GDP at factor cost and at constant prices over the next few
years should be fairly high, even if possibly somewhat less than the
projection of about 5-1/2 percent a year which was made in the Economic
Report (AF-58b).
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
18.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - REOI"MENDATION
19.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. IDA
Approval of a Development Credit to the Republic of Kenya in
an amount equivalent to US$ 10,700,000.



RESOLVED:
TiHT the Association shall grant a developmient credit to the
Republic of Kenya in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to ten million seven hundred thousand United States dollars
(US$ 10,700,000) to mature on and prior to March 1, 2018, to
bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be upon such other terms
and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in the form of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement (Second Highway Project) between the
Republic of Kenya and the Association, which has been presented
to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 29, 1968



