RESTR -CTE D
RETU'Ut     )               FILE t                   Report No. TO-631a
REPORTS DE SKc                               y
WITHIN
ONE W
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
KENYA
May 28, 1968
Projects Department



K E N Y A
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
SUMMARY                                                      i - ii
1.   INTRODUCTION                                                  1
2.   BACKGROUND                                                    2
A. General                                                    2
B.  Transportation                                           2
C. Road Transport                                            3
D. Transport Coordination                                    4
3.   THE HIGHWAY SECTOR                                            5
A. The Highway System                                        5
B. The Roads Branch of the Ministry of Works                 5
C. Highway Planning and Financing                            6
De Road Development Program, 1966/70                         7
E. Highway Engineering                                        7
F. Highway Construction                                       8
G. Highway Maintenance                                        8
4.   THE PROJECT                                                   9
A. General Description                                        9
B. The Trunk Roads                                           9
C.  The Replacement of Ten Single-Lane Bridges              11
D. The Engineering of Trunk Roads                           12
E.  The Engineering of Secondary/Feeder Roads               12
F. The YLOW Staff Training Scheme                           12
G. Cost Estimate and Foreign Exchange Component             13
H. Project Execution and Financing                          15
5.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                      17
A. Road Works to be Financed Under the Project              17
B. The Replacement of Ten Single-Lane Bridges               21
C. Road Works to be Engineered under the Project            21
6.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                              21
(Continued)
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission comprising
Messrs. Young (engineer), Bickers (economist), and Malone (engineer) which
visited Kenya in June 1967.



TABLES
1. Length of Roads, 1957 to 1966
2. Estimated Number of Motor Vehicles, 1955 to 1965
3. Central Government Highway Expenditures and Receipts from
Road User Taxation, 1959 to 1966
4. Highway Design Standards
5. Trunk Roads to be reconstructed under the Project
6. Single-lane bridges to be replaced
7. Schedule of Secondary/Feeder Roads to be Engineered under
the Project
8. Cost Estimate
9e Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs Resulting from Road
Improvements
CHART: Organization of the Ministry of Works
MAP:    KENYA: Highway System



K E N Y-A
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHRAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of Kenya has asked the Association to assist in
the financing of a highway project comprising: (i) part of the 1967/70
trunk road reconstruction program; (ii) the engineering of some secondary/
feeder roads; and (iii) a Staff Training Scheme.
ii.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$16.2 million
equivalent. The Government has requested the Association to finance the
foreign exchange element of the project, estimated at US$10.7 million
equivalent; the balance of the financing would be met from the national
budget.
iii.      This would be the fifth loan/credit associated with roads in
Kenya, and the second for the primary and secondary road network. In
1960 a loan of US$5.6 million (256-KE) was made which included US$2.6
million for the construction of highways and roads in areas of high agri-
cultural potential. In 1964, a credit of US$4.5 million (70-KE) was made
for the reconstruction of highways and bridges. Tne construction under
the loan is complete and that under the credit is substantially completed.
In addition, two credits have been made for roads directly related to
agricultural programs. In 1965, a credit (77-KE) was made for roads in
tea growing areas, and in 1967 a credit (104-KE) was made for roads in
sugar growing areas. The quality of the work carried out under these
projects and the performace of the Ministry of Works (MOW) as the
executing agency has, in general, been satisfactory.
iv.       The roads to be reconstructed under the proposed project are
all part of the trunk road system and the reconstruction comprises the
improvement of 285 miles of roads and the replacement of 10 single-lane
bridges by two-lane structures. The design of all the construction work
has been completed; about 80 percent was carried out by consultants and
the remainder by the MOW. The supervision of reconstruction of the roads
is to be carried out by consultants, and that of the bridges by the MOW.
Most of the work is scheduled to be carried out by contracts awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
v.        The remainder of the project covers the detailed engineering of
some 266 miles of secondary/feeder roads, scheduled for construction in
a later program, and the support of a Staff Training Scheme within the
Ministry of Works designed to train Kenyans who, for the first time, are
filling senior executive positions in the Ministry.



-ii-
vi.       The project has been well prepared and is technically sound.  The
investment in the reconstruction of the trunk roads is amply justified
in terms of the benefits accruing to road users; the rate of return on the
investment for individual roads ranges from 15 percent to 25 percent, with
an average for all trunk roads considered under the project of 18 percent.
The detailed engineering of the secondary/feeder roads included in the
project is justified on the grounds of present and projected traffic and
the level of agriculture in the areas which they penetrate. The Staff
Training Scheme is an investment in sound management and institution-
building within the MOW, which is essential if the maximum benefits of
Bank/IDA support for road schemes in Kenya are to be obtained.
vii.      The project provides a suitable basis for a credit of US$10.7
million equivalent to the Government of Kenya.



K E N Y A
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Kenya has requested a credit from the Inter-
national Development Association (IDA) for the financing of a project
comprising about two-fifths of the country's 1967/70 trunk road program,
the detailed engineering of secondary/feeder roads scheduled for con-
struction in a later program, and a Staff Training Scheme for the Ministry
of Works (MOW). The cost of the project is estimated at US$16.2 million
equivalent, and the Government is requesting a credit from the Association
to meet the foreign exchange component, estimated at US$10.7 million
equivalent.
1.02      This would be the fifth loan/credit associated with roads in
Kenya, and the second for the primary and secondary road network. In
1960, the Bank made a loan of US$5.6 million equivalent (256-KE) for the
development of agriculture in areas of high potential; the reconstruction
of some of the roads in these areas was included in that project. In
1964L, the Association made a credit (70-KE) of US$4.5 million equivalent
for the engineering, construction and improvement of about 200 miles of
highways.  In 1965, a credit (77-KE) of US$3.0 million equivalent was
made for the improvement of about 900 miles of roads in tea growing areas,
and in May 1967, a further credit (104-KE) was made for the design,
engineering, and construction of about 270 miles of main,feeder, and field
access roads in the sugar growing areas of western Kenya and for the
engineering of a further 250 miles of these roads, In transportation
other than roads, Kenya has benefited with Tanzania and Uganda from loans
made to the East African Common Services Authority, in 1955 (llO-EA) and
in 1965 (428-EA), for the development of equipment and facilities operated
by East African Railways and Harbors Administration.
1.03      Road construction under Loan 256-KE was completed in 1964.
Work under Credit 70-KE has progressed well, despite some difficulties
with contractors, and is substantially completo.    Construction
of the tea roads (Credit 77-KE) is about 75 percent complete and of the
sugar roads (Credit 104-KE) about 25 percent complete. Some of the earth-
works and culvert works under Loan 256-KE were unsatisfactory and at the
insistence of the Bank the MOW initiated corrective measures. The
execution of the later projects and the performance of the MOW as executing
agency have been, on the whole, satisfactory.
1.04      This proposed project places emphasis again on the highways of
the country, and the greater part of the project is concerned with im-
provements to the trunk road network. Included in the project is the further
improvement, from gravel to a paved standard, of two roads which were
improved initially under Loan 256-KE, and  of a further two roads improved
under Credit 70-KE. The traffic growth on these four roads has been
particularly rapid and paving is now warranted.



-2-
1.05      The project was initiated by the Government of Kenya in cooperation1
with the Bank's Pemanent Mission in Easterm Africa. It is consonant with
the economic development of the country, and the timing and composition are
designed to maintain an even flow of highway work in all stages from
engineering to construction.
1.06      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. Young (engineer), Bickers (economist), and Malone
(engineer) which visited Kenya in June 1967. Completion of the appraisal
report required further discussions with the Govermment on the specific
content of the project.
2. BACKGROUMD
A. General
2.01      The Republic of Kenya has a total area of 225,000 square miles,
about the same size as France. Although it lies on the equator, variations
in altitude provide a wide range of climatic conditions. More than half
the country, in the north and east, is arid and sparsely populated. The
most attractive areas for settlement are along the coast and on the high-
lands in the south-west between Mount Kenya and Lake Victoria, where more
than half the total population of 10 million lives in 20 percent of the
country's total area.
2.02      The economy is based on agriculture, much of which remains on a
subsistence basis, Agriculture accounted for about 40 percent of total
GDP in 1966, and subsistence activities alone for more than half of this
contribution. Manufacturing industry accounted for 11 percent of GDP;
although local industry has expanded considerably in the past few years,
a large proportion of manufactured goods is still imported. Agricultural
products provide roughly three-quarters of the country's visible exports.
Another major source of foreign exchange is the tourist industry which
has been growing rapidly. The number of foreign visitors increased by
18 percent p.a. between 1960 and 1965, and by over 30 percent in 1966.
2.03      Kenya's GDP showed an average annual growth rate of about 4.5
percent (at constant prices) between 1961 and 1966; but the popultion
has been increasing by 3 percent p.a. and per capita income is still only
about US$100. The economic situation in Kenya has been reviewed exten-
sively in recent Bank reports, particularly in Volume II of "Prospects
for Economic Development in East Africa" dated August 1967.
B. Transportation
2.04      The heaviest concentration of inland transport facilities and
traffic is on the 600-mile route from the port of Mombasa to Kenya's
western border with Uganda, passing through Nairobi and the populous
south-western area of the country (see Map). This route is served by road,
rail and air services; but for imports and exports through Mombasa, and
indeed for all other long-distance bulk movements, the railway is by far



-3-
the most important carrier. It provides the principal outlet to the sea
for Kenya and Uganda and, to some extent, for Northern Tanzania and even
Rwanda and the north-eastern part of the Congo. This rail route, with
the subsidiary lines feeding into it, comprises 1,000 miles in Kenya,
which are part of the 3,600-mile system of the East African Railways and
Harbours Administration. The joint ownership and operation of this under-
taking as a common service by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda will not be
affected by the creation of separate corporations for railways and harbors,
as institutions of the Epst African Community,
2.05      The East African Airways Corporation, also owmed jointly by the
three countries, operates international services to Western Europe, West
Africa, the Middle and Far East, and to neighboring countries, as wqell as
internal services. A number of international airlines call at Nairobi
Airport, which serves as the major long-distance air terminal for East
Africa. Passenger traffic has been increasing by more than 10 percent
annually.
2.06      Kenya's road system consists of about 3,900 miles of trunk
roads, 6,600 miles of secondary roads, and some 15,500 miles of minor
roads, many of which are no more than tracks.  Of the total network,amounting
to 26,000 miles, about 1,300 miles are already paved. The expansion of the
highway system over the past ten years is shown in Table 1.
C. Road Transport
2.07      Preliminary results of a study by the UeK. Road Research Labora-
tory (RRL) suggest that 50 percent of total vehicle-miles take place on
the trunk roads, which represent only about 15 percent of the total road
mileage; a further 40 percent is on secondary roads, which include 25 per-
cent of the total road mileage, and 10 percent is on minor roads, which
comprise 60 percent of the total road system.
2.O8      Official statistics of licensed motor vehicles are considered
by the RRL to have consistently understated the true total since 1960.
This is due partly to mistakes in compilation but mainly to the failure
to include the numerous "pirate" taxis and goods vehicles operating
illegally. According to the RRL, the total number of vehicles operated in
1965 amounted to some 105,000, of which 54,000 were automobiles (Table 2).
This total implies an average increase of about 6 percent p.a. since 1960
compared with an average of 8 percent p.a. during the previous five years.
The slower growth is, to a large extent, attributed to the departure of
many non-Africans following the announcement of independence in 1961.
As a result of an increasing momentum in Kenya's economic development,
the RRL believes that the rate of growth has already shown signs of
accelerating and may reach 10 percent p.a. by 1970. This seems to be
optimistic, but much depends on the extent to which the present stringent
regulations on commercial vehicle operations will be relaxed (see
paras. 2.12 and 2.13).



2.09      Although reliable data are not available, it appears that the
average size of trucks has been increasing and that, in the future, a
higher proportion of trucks will be of more than 5 tons capacity. This
could lead to substantial reduction in the competitive cost of shipping
goods by road. It is also an important factor in considering future
design standards for the principal roads; in particular, the 18-ft paving
currently provided on some of the main trunk roads may well prove to be
inadequate in the near future. (The adequacy of highway design standards
is further discussed in para. 3.13).
2.10      Until 1963, specific taxes paid by road vehicle operators were
earmarked for road expenditure but since then this has been financed by
the Government from general funds.  In 1966, about t 6.7 million was
collected from fuel taxes and license fees. In addition there was a
further E 2.8 million from import tariffs on vehicles, spares, etc., though
part of this might be considered as general revenue rather than as
proceeds specifically from road user taxation.
2.11      Even if all import duties on vehicles, parts, tires, etc., are
excluded, receipts fran fuel taxes and license fees alone have, on
average, exceeded total highway expenditures in each year over the past
eight years, and by about 40 percent in total over this period (Table 3).
The 1967/68 Budget included a 7 percent increase in the tax on gasoline.
Taking this into account, as well as the effect of continued expansion
in highway traffic, it is expected that receipts will1 continue to exceed
highway expenditures in spite of the heavy program of road construction
envisaged over the next few years (see para. 3.11)
De Transport Co-ordination
2.12      Commercial road transport in Kenya is subject to considerable
regulation and restriction, the prime object of which has been to protect
the "differential tariff" of the railway. The railway is still required
to maintain tariffs traditionally based on the value of the cargo, charging
low rates on commodities such as agricultural exports, and high rates on
imported goods etc. without regard to differences in the costs of carrying
the particular commodity. The regulation of road transport is designed to
protect the railway's ability to cross-subsidize traffic in this fashion
which it would be difficult to do if road transport were free to compete
for the profitable traffic. The situation has been discussed in detail
in previous Bank reports (most recently in the Annex on Transport to
"Prospects for Economic Development in East Africa", Volume II).  It is
complicated by the fact that profitable traffic on the main railway line
to Mombasa is undoubtedly subsidizing operations on other sections of the
railway, including lines in Tanzania and Uganda.
2.13      Restrictions on road transport take the form of stringent
licensing regulations, which determine the number of vehicles to be
operated, the traffic to be carried, the routes to be served, etc. The
Transport Licensing Ordinance also specifically provides that where an



adequate railway service is provided, licenses for the carriage of goods
by road shall normally be granted for distances of not more than 30 miles.
However, there appears to be widespread violation of these regulations.
2.14      The UNDP, with the Bank as executing agent, is financing a
comprehensive study by The Economist Intelligence Unit of transport
policies and pricing in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. The object is to
recommend measures to coordinate the use and development of the various
modes of surface transport in,aidbetween the three countries.  Among the
questions to be considered are the effects of the licensing regulations
applying to road vehicles, the  appropriate type and level of road user
charges in relation to public expenditure on the roads, and the consequences
of the present pricing structure of the railways. The study began in
October 1967, and is to be completed by the end of 1968.
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Highway System
3.01      The MOW groups highways under three headings: trunk, secondary,
and unclassified. Trunk roads are the main national highways, secondary
roads are the main district roads and unclassified roads comprise all
other roads and tracks. This grouping is used primarily to define the
financial and executive procedures involved in the construction and main-
tenance of the system.
3.02      In addition to the above classification, the MOW considers
highways from other viewpoints, one of which is the "type" of the highway.
Highway type is an indication of geometric characteristics, such as
gradient and carriageway width, and varies from a Type I highway, which is
normally reserved for major trunk routes and which requires a carriageway
width of 20 - 22 ft through to a Type IV highway, reserved for minor roads,
and which requires a carriageway of 12 - 16 ft. Types II and III form a
gradation of geometric characteristics between these extremes.
3.03      The bulk of the roads comprising the national network as well
as those considered in this project lie to the south and west of Mount
Kenya; this is the area of heaviest rainfall and highest altitude in the
country.
B. The Roads Branch of the Ministry of Works
3.04      The Roads Branch is responsible for the design, construction
and maintenance of the main roads in the country's highway system. It is
one of several branches of the MOW, the more important of the others being
the Mechanical Engineering Branch, the Electrical Branch, the Materials
Branch, the Structures Branch, the Quantity Surveying Branch, and the
provincial engineering organization* All branches, and the provincial
engineering organization, report directly to the Engineer-in-Chief who is
the chief executive of the 1D'LIV; (see Chart). The chief executive of the
Roads Branch is the Chief Engineer (Roads).



-6-
3.05      As a result of this organization of the MOW, certain functions
related to road design are not under the direct control of the Chief
Engineer (Roads). For example, bridge design is carried out in the
Structures Branch (which has other responsibilities apart from roads);
the design and quality control of departmental work are carried out by
the Materials Branch (which also has other commitments unrelated to roads).
Although such a "horizontal" organization may not be ideal from the
viewpoint of the Roads Branch, it appears to be suited to the size of the
operations and works effectively.
3.06      The most urgent problem in the Roads Branch, and in other
branches of the MCJ, is the staffing situation at management level due to
the departure of expatriates with long service. It is possible that these
departures will cause a substantial reduction in the quality of management
in the Ministry over the next few years if action is not taken to strengthen
this important function. A Staff Training Scheme is, therefore, proposed
as one of the items in the project; (see para. 4.16).
3.07      The technical standards of the Roads Branch during the trans-
ition period from a department staffed largely with expatriates to one
staffed wholly with experienced Kenyans seem assured by the continuation
in service of some competent engineers, both Kenyan and expatriate, in the
middle levels of the Branch. In particular the latter is currently well
served by engineers provided under Norwegian Technical Aid. Furthermore,
continuity of good technical standards is provided by consulting engineers
used by the MOW for work which is beyond departmental capacity.
C. Highway Planning and Financing
3.08      The Ministry of Economic Development and Planning is responsible
for deciding the overall size of the highway program; in the exercise of
this responsibility the Ministry works closely with the Treasury and MOW.
The MOW (in effect the Roads Branch) is responsible for decisions on
individual projects taking into account the views of other Ministries,
of the Central Road Authority and of the provincial and local councils.
The Central Road Authority is an advisory, non-technical body whose
members are nominated by Government to represent various elements of
public opinion. The projects finally decided upon by the Ministry of
Works are eventually incorporated into the National Development Plan. A
somewhat different procedure is adopted in the case of "captive" roads
associated primarily with specific development programs of other Ministries,
such as the sugar and tea roads of the Ministry of Agriculture, the tourist
roads of the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife, etc. Such roads are
sponsored directly by the Ministries concerned, and the Roads Branch is
involved only with the technical aspects of design and construction.
3.09      The executive and financial responsibility for the construction
of trunk roads is vested in the Government. The responsibility for second-
ary roads is vested in local authorities (County Councils) although in
practice the authorities receive some financial assistance for secondary



-7-
road construction from Government. The responsibility for all other roads
is vested in the local authorities, and the whole cost of construction
and improvement is met by them from local revenues.
3.10      During the past few years the Government has looked to external
sources for the financing of new construction. External finance for this
purpose during the period 1959-66 totalled about US$35 million equivalent;
of this about US$10 million (30 percent) was made available by the Bank/IDA,
about US$7 million (20 percent) by the British Government, about US$3.5
million (10 percent) by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany
and the remainder by contractor finance.  Funds for the Government's
contribution to the capital costs and for road maintenance costs are
provided from budgetary sources.
D. Road Development Program 1966/70
3.11      The targets for road development established in the 1966/70
Development Plan envisage an increase of about 600 miles, or 50 percent,
in non-urban paved road, and proportionate increases in the mileages
of gravel and earth roads. Trunk road reconstruction in the proposed
project together with that being financed under Credit 70-KE account for
rather more than half of the total trunk road element of the 1966/70
Development Plan. Trunk road development within the Plan but not
financed by IDA includes: (i) reconstruction of lengths of the main
trunk road from the Tanzanian border, at Namanga, to the Ugandan border,
at Tororo, (ii) reconstruction of the Nairobi-Mombasa road, and (iii) re-
construction of the road from Northern Kenya to the EthLiopian border. In
addition to this trunk road program, there is a program of about the same
estimated cost embracing secondary roads and roads related to tea and
sugar development, and roads in tourist areas.
E. Highway Engineering
3.12      The philosophy of highway design in Kenya has been to use
minimum acceptable standards so that as large a mileage of roads as
possible may be obtained from the available funds. The result has been
the construction of modest roads devoid of any element of over design.
3.13      Highway design standards used by the MOW   (Table 4) are
generally acceptable, with the possible exception of that for pavement
width. The trend in Kenya is to the use of larger vehicles and of vehicles
with trailers, and for such traffic an 18-foot-wide pavement, frequently
adopted in the past, makes for dangerous driving and costly shoulder
maintenance.
3.14      About 60 percent of the trunk road   ileage to be reconstructed
under the project will be suitable for a carriageway width of 20 ft.
(Type IIA Tables 4 & 5). Of the remaining mileage half has already been



-8-
engineered to accept an 18-foot pavement and built to a gravel standard;
this is now to be paved under the project and in these circumstances it
is not practicable to pave wider than 18 feet. The remainder, 55 miles,
has been engineered and will be constructed to Type II standard (18-foot
wide pavement); this standard is acceptable on the sections concerned in
view of nature of the projected traffic. 'The MOW is now inclining to the
view that major roads should have a carriageway width of at least 20 ft,
and has given an assurance that this will be the rule in all future
design.
3.15      Some highway design is carried out in the Roads Branch; modern
techniques are used and the standard of technical expertise is, generally,
good. However, the Branch has not the capacity to design the whole
highway program and design work which it cannot conveniently undertake
is placed with 3 or 4 finms of consulting engineers with offices in Nairobi.
F. Highway Construction
3.16      Highway construction is carried out by small and medium-sized
Kenyan firms which are mainly owned and directed by Asians, by the large
European contracting firms with branches or subsidiaries in East Africa,
and by departmental forces. Some work is also being carried out by the
National Youth Service - notably part of the road from Northern Kenya to
Ethiopia - while very minor capital works are carried out by local councils.
Contract work is on a unit price basis, contracts being awarded after
international competitive bidding. The qualification and bidding pro-
cedures of the MOW, its handling of contracts and its dealings with con-
tractors are considered satisfactory.
3.17      The MOW has built up its own construction force partly to be
less dependent on the contracting industry, if the latter's rates become
excessive, and partly to do work which cannot economically be put to
contract.  Currently, the MOW has two road construction units, the larger
of which is working well on the Nairobi-Mombasa road.
G. Highway Maintenance
3.18      The Government finances maintenance of trunk and secondary
roads from its recurrent budget; in general allocations have been adequate
and have kept pace with the expansion of the highway system. Local
councils finance the maintenance of all other roads from local revenues.
Normally, maintenance of the trunk road 0ystem is carried out by the MOW
and that of all other roads by local councils.
3.19      The Government is obligated, under previous Bank/IDA projects,
to maintain the public road system adequately. In general, maintenance is
reasonably satisfactory although on the basis of spot checks, the rainy
season appears to strain the maintenance forces, particularly in coping
with unpaved roads. Furthermore, in the past year or so, the upkeep of
some secondary and minor roads has suffered because of ineffective local
councils.



-9-
3.20      To improve the standard of maintenance on all roads, a separate
maintenance section has recently been established within the Roads Branch.
This section is under the direction of an expatriate Senior Superintending
Engineer and is organized to oversee both the maintenance carried out by
the M4inistry's own forces and that of the councils.  This is obviously a
step in the right direction. During negotiations, the Goverrment reiterated
its intention adequately to maintain the road system in accordance with
the earlier obdigaticns to the Bank/IDA.
4. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The project comprises:
(i)  the reconstruction of 11 sections of trunk roads totaling
about 285 miles in length, of which 265 miles are to be
paved and the remainder gravelled;
(ii)  the replacement of 10 single-lane bridges by 2-lane
structures;
(iii)  tho detailed engineering and supervision of construction
under (i), and (ii);
(iv)  the detailed engineering of approximately 266 miJes of
secondary/feeder roads;
(v)  a training scheme designed to maintain the efficiency of
management in the MOW.
4.02      The purpose of the project is three-fold:
(i) to improve parts of the trunk road system by reconstruction,
generally to a paved standard, and by replacement of
single-lane bridges which are either dangerously sited or
structurally deficient, or both;
(ii)  to prepare the detailed design of secondary/feeder roads
scheduled for construction in a later program;
(iii)  to strengthen the management and planning functions of the
MOW weakened by the departure of experienced expatriates.
4.03      The project works include paving of some roads reconstructed
under Loan 256-KE and Credit 70-KE. Although traffic growth rates
suggest that some of this paving may have been justified earlier, the
Government had deferred consideration of paving until this time to
spread the available capital as widely as possible in the transportation
and other sectors of the economy.
B. The Trunk Roads (Table 5 and Map)
(i) Malindi-Kilifi (No. 1 - 38 miles) and Kibaoni-Mtwapa (No. 2 -
17 miles)
4.04      The coast of Kenya has considerable tourist attractions;Malindi



-10-
70 miles north of the main port of Mombasa is a flourishing resort, and in
between there are numerous other smaller resorts.   In addition, sisal is
grown on a large scale in the coastal area north of Mombasa. The existing
road is located within a mile or so of the coast on low lying land which
is interspersed with occasional outcrops of coral.
4.05      The project envisages the improvement of the existing coast
road by the paving of 38 miles of gravel road (constructed under Credit 70-KE)
and the widening of 17 miles of single-lane bitumen road to double-lane.
The road between Mombasa and Malindi would then be paved to full width
for its entire length.
4.o6      After completion of the project works the only major obstacle
to rapid movement along this north coast road would be the ferry across
Kilifi Creek, roughly midway between Mombasa and Malindi. This ferry is
operated by the MOW; at present the service is inadequate but it is being
improved by the provision of more suitable engines for the ferries. A
further improvement in the ferry service is possible in the short term by
the addition of extra craft. Recognizing that there may well be serious
congestion at the ferry in years to come, the MOW has already made pre-
liminary studies for a bridge crossing. Further investigations are in
progress and the MOW is awaiting the outcome before formulating plans
for a long-term solution.
(ii)  Timau-Meru (No. 3 - 41 miles); Embu-Ena (No. 4 - 8 miles);
and Kutus-Kerugoya No.5 - 6 miles)
4.07      These three roads are located in the vicinity of Mount Kenya.
Timau and Meru are on the north side of the mountain where the land is
used for large scale ranching and for land settlement. In addition, the
area is becoming increasingly popular because of its game parks. Travel
between these towns is difficult at best, and the existi.ng tack becomes
impassable at times in the wet season. The project envisages an all-
weather road linking the two towns on a new alignment which would cross
the northern slopes of the mountain entailing moderately heavy earthworks,
and rise in places to an altitude of more than 8,000 ft. A spur road, part
of which would be to a gravel standard, will be constructed from the pro-
posed Timau-Meru road to replace an existing connection which leads off
the present track and provides the main road access to northern Kenya.
h.o8      Of the two roads on the south side of the mountain, one (Embu-
Ena) is part of the ring road around Mount Kenya and it would be con-
structed to bituminous standard to accord with plans for the furtherance
of the development of the eastern slopes. The other (Kutus-Kerugoya)
was reconstructed to gravel standard under Loan 256-KE, is now heavily
trafficked and leads to tea growing areas, the roads of which are being
developed under Credit 77-KE.
(iii) Ahero-Nyakoe (No. 6 - 50 miles). Wanjare-Kamagambo (No. 7 -
10 miles); Kamagambo-Suna (No.   - 26 miles)
4.09      The Ahero-Nyakoe road forms part of the main road linking Kisumu



-11-
with the important agricultural center of Kisii. The two other roads
are continuations of this road southwards from Kisii towards the border
of Tanzania. The roads traverse hilly country in an area in which natural
road building materials can be obtained without great difficulty. The
work envisaged on the Ahero-Nyakoe road is the paving of an existing
fully-engineered road, constructed to gravel standards under Credit 70-KE;
this would complete an all-weather link between Kisumu and Kisii. Cn the
twro lengths south of Kisii, the project provides for the raising of the
existing gravel track to a fully engineered paved road0
(iv)  Eldoret-Kapsabet (No. 9 - 26 miles); Kakamega-Broderick Falls
(No. 10-26 miles)
4.10      The Eldoret-Kapsabet road is a gravel road, part of which was
constructed under Loan 256-KE. It passes through rolling country in the
highly developed and densely populated Nandi Hills, and forms part of the
trunk road between Kisumu and Eldoret, two of the most important centers
in western Kenya. The project envisages the paving of this road on the
existing alignment. The Kakamega-Broderick Falls road is part of the trunk
road from Kisumu northwards towards Kitale and northern Kenya. This road
is currently no more than an improved track; current and projected traffic
merit the reconstruction of this road immediately to a fully engineered
paved standard.
(v) Msambweni-Lunga Lunga (No. 11 - 35 miles)
4.11      This is part of the coastal road leading from a point 40 miles
south of Mombasa to the border with Tanzania. The 35-mile length selected
for improvement falls into 3 sections: a) N4sambweni-Ramisi - 10 miles;
b) Ramisi-Mrima - 10 miles; and c) Mrima - Lunga Lunga - 15 miles.
Section (a) is a single-lane paved road the coral base of which has failed.
Under the project, this length would be reconstructed to a two-lane pave-
ment with a new base. Section (b) is no more than a track across a low-
lying area of heavy black soil, in which sugar cane is grown on a large
scale for processing in the factory at Ramisi. The project envisages an
embanlanent across this area and the provision of a two-lane paved road.
The pavement is required because of the poor nature of the soil and also
because of the heavy local traffic generated by the sugar estates.
Section (c) lies in low hills and the road is no more than a primitive
track; the project provides for this section to be raised to a fully
engineered gravel standard,
C.  The Replacement of Ten Single-Lane Bridges (Table 6 and Map)
4.12      The Government has been encouraged in previous projects to
replace short single-lane bridges on trunk routes by two-lane structures,
since single-lane bridges on otherwise two-lane carriageways are dangerous.
The replacement of ten such bridges is included in the project and would
ensure that the trunk routes concerned would then be free of such hazards.
The replacement of some of these ten existing bridges is additionally



-12-
desirable because the structures are deficient and the sites are subject
to flooding. In nine of the ten locations, the project provides for the
replacement of the existing bridge by a two-lane structure on a new and
satisfactory alignment with new approaches to tie in with the existing
road. In the remaining case, (Sagana), as the present alignment is
satisfactory and the foundations are adequate, the project provides only
for the widening of the existing bridge to accommodate a two-lane
carriageway.
D. The Engineering of Trunk Roads
4.13      The design standards adopted for each of the trunk roads are
set out in Tables 4 & 5 . These standards are, in general, satisfactory,
the exception being that for pavement width, which for some of the roads
is considered the minimum acceptable standard, (see para. 3.13). The work
proposed on all of the 11 trunk roads has been fully engineered. In those
cases where the proposed construction involves the surfacing of a road
which has an acceptable alignment, the engineering has been limited to a
detailed pavement design, including a survey of local road-building
material. In all other cases the engineering has involved detailed
topographic survey, supported by aerial photograplhy and photogrammetry,
as well as a complete pavement design and material evaluation. On two of
the roads, engineering has been done by the MOW; on the remainder by
consultants. The cost of engineering is included in the project.
E. The Engineering of Secondary/Feeder Roads (Table 7 and Map)
4.14      The roles of trunk roads, secondary roads and feeder roads are
complementary, and in the development of a national highway system it is
important to maintain a balanced development between all classes of road.
The MOW is now planning the next road program, and proposes to include
secondary/feeder road construction in it. To that end the detailed
engineering of 14 such roads is included in the project.
4.15      The Roads Branch has investigated the economic justification of
the reconstruction envisaged for each of the selected secondary/feeder
roads and although the investigation was necessarily based on somewhat
approximate values of costs and benefits, these together with the magnitude
of current traffic on the roads provide a suitable basis for proceeding
with their detailed engineering at this time. (See para. 5.15).
F. The MOW Staff Training Scheme
4.16      The Training Scheme was developed by the MOW with the cooperation
of the Baik's Permanent Mission in Eastern Africa. The need for such a
scheme was foreseen a year or so ago when the MOW was confronted with the
likelihood that the majority of its senior expatriate staff would soon
terminate their services. The Bank/IDA, in view of the sizeable contri-
bution which they are making to highway construction in Kenya, clearly
have a direct interest in the efficient working of the MOW. The proposed



-13-
IDA participation (approximately US$0.3 million) may be considered as an
investment in management and the strengthening of development institutions,
and should be viewed in relation to future disbursements, under the
existing and proposed credits, of about US$17 million equivalent over the
next 3 or 4 years.
4.17      The Scheme would provide supernumerary appointments for seven
key positions to be filled for four years with experienced expatriates,
acceptable to the Association, on a contract basis. The expatriates would
advise the Kenyan officials filling the key positions who would thus have
the bonefit of expatriate experience while running their own departments -
a form of "on-the-job" training. Four of the positions in the Scheme are
in the Roads Branch - two connected with planning, one with survey, one
with maintenance; two are in support of key positions in the Materials
Branch and the remaining one is in the Mechanical Engineering Branch. All
the positions are concerned, directly or indirectly, with the design,
construction or maintenance of the country's road system. The organiza-
tion of the MOW in outline, and as it relates to these supernumerary
positions, is given in the Chart. Arrangements are already in hand to
fill five of the positions in the Scheme.
G. Cost Estimate and Foreign Exchange Component
4.18      The cost of the project including allowance for contingencies
is estimated at US$16.2 million equivalent with a foreign exchange
component estimated at US$10.7 million. The major items are shown below,
(details are given in Table 8):
(Please see the following page)



-14-
(US$ million Equrivalent)
Local        Foreign      Total Cost
Currency      Exchange       Estimate
(i) Reconstruction of 11 lengths
of trunk road                   3.96          7.70         11.66
(ii) Replacement of 10 single-
lane bridges                    0.18          0.34           0.52
(iii) Design and supervision of
(i) and (ii)
- Design                        0.19          0.36          0.55
- Supervision                   0.26          0.50          0.76
(iv) Detailed Engineering of
Secondary/Feeder Roads          0.17         0.33           0.50
(v)  Training Scheme                  0.14          0.28           0.42
4.90          9.51          14.41
Contingencies
- Physical (7%)                  0.34         o.66           1.00
- Price Escalation (5%)          0.25          0.48          0.73
5.49         10.65          16.14
Say,   10.7    Say,   16.2
4.19      Bids have been received and awards made for about 85 percent of
the trunk road and bridge reconstruction, and for this work the accepted
bids have been used in the cost estimates. For the remainder of the
reconstruction, costs have been estimated by applying unit rates, derived
from contracts for road construction carried out in 1965, to the schedules
of quantities obtained fraa detailed engineering, allowance being made for
the price escalation since that date. Detailed engineering for Trunk
Roads Nos. 9 and 10 and for the bridge replacement was carried out by the
MOW, that for the remainder of the trunk roads by consulting engineers,
Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners (Great Britain), and Edwards and Burrow
(Kenya), (ee Table 5).
4.20      The costs of design and supervision carried out by consultants
have each been assessed at about 6 percent of construction cost, based on
current experience in Kenya. The costs of design and supervision carried
out departmentally have each been notionally assessed at 4.5 percent
of construction cost.



-15-
4.21      The cost of the detailed engineering of the secondary/feeder
roads has been taken as a percentage of the estimated construction cost,
this latter being based on average costs per mile in various types of
terrain. This method of estimating the cost of detailed engineering of
the secondary/feeder roads is considered adequate at this stage of the
project.
4.22      The cost of the Training Scheme has been taken as the cost to
Govermment of the salaries and allowances for the 7 supernumerary appoint-
ments envisaged under the Scheme, after deduction of taxation.
4.23      A contingency allowance of 7 percent has been included for
possible quantity increases. In view of the detailed engineering carried
out for the reconstruction of the trunk roads and the replacement of the
bridges, this is considered sufficient. A further contingency allowance
of 5 percent has been included for possible price increases during the
construction period; current experience in Kenya indicates that this
allowance is adequate.
4.24      The foreign exchange component of the construction work has been
assessed at 65 percent, of design and supervision at 70 percent, and of
the Training Scheme at 65 percent (based on the assessed foreign exchange
element of the expatriates' salaries and allowances); this results in a
foreign exchange component for the project as a whole of about 66 percent.
This figure may be compared with the corresponding figures for the last
two road projects in Kenya, 70 percent (for Credit 77-KE) and 68 percent
(for Credit 10h-KE). Fuel, equipment depreciation, bitumen, cement,
management overheads and profit are the principal foreign exchange items.
H. Project Execution and Financing
4e25      The proposed replacement of bridges and reconstruction of
trunk roads (with the exception of that on Trunk Roads Nos. 1 and 2 and
of earthworks in the approaches to the ten bridges) will be executed by
contracts let under international competitive bidding in accordance with
standard Bank/IDA procedures. The reconstruction of Trunk Roads Nos. 1
and 2 has been negotiated as an extension to an existing contract as
explained in the next paragraph. The volume of earthworks in the approaches
to the bridges is considered too small to warrant execution by contract
and these earthworks will be carried out departmentally. The reconstruction
on the trunk roads will be supervised by consultants (see Table 5) and
the replacement of the bridges by the MOW.
4.26      The Malindi-Kilifi road (Trunk Road No. 1) was completed to a
gravel standard under Credit 70-KE. In 1966 the MOW reported to the
Association that traffic on this road was increasing more quickly than had
been anticipated and that paving would be justified. The MOW suggested
that this paving and also the widening of the length Kibaoni-Mtwapa
(Trunk Road No. 2) could economically be carried out as an extension to the
contract, awarded under Credit 70-KE, for the Malindi-Kilifi section, and



-16-
requested the Association's assistance in financing the work under this
proposed project. The Association indicated that favorable consideration
would be given and the MOW immediately negotiated with the contractor an
extension of the contract, to cover the proposed works on Trunk Roads
Nos. 1 & 2. -Construction commenced on these works in 1967 and is expected
to be completed by mid-1968. The NOW achieves substantial savings by
arranging for these project works to be carried out as an extension to an
existing contract, and was justified in doing so,
4.27      The work on the other trunk roads has been grouped, as far as
possible, to provide contracts large enough to attract international
competitive bidding. The work on Trunk Roads Nos. 3, 4, and 5 was
tendered with the option of bidding for the roads either individually or
as a group; it was awarded as a single contract for the three roads to a
contractor acceptable to the Association. The reconstruction of Trunk
Roads Nos. 6, 7, and 8 and Trunk Road Nos. 9 and 10, has been dealt with
and awarded on the same basis. Trunk Road No. 11, because of its geo-
graphical isolation, will be treated as a separate contract. The bridge
replacements are also being bid in convenient groups, but because of
the relatively small size this work is expected to be taken by local
contractors.
4.28      The detailed engineering of 6 of the 14 secondary/feeder roads
is being carried out by consultants, Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners
(Great Britain), Edwards and Burrow (Kenya), and East African Engineering
Consultants (Kenya), the remainder by MOW (see Table 7).  Highwlay design
carried out departmentally is generally good (para 3.15), and there have
been no major problems on this aspect in previous Bank/IDA projects.
4.29      The Government has requested the Association to finance the
foreign exchange element of the project, estimated at US$10.7 million
equivalent. It is the Government's intention to finance local currency
costs from the national budget.
4.30      Retroactive financing by the Association of approximately
US$1,105,000 equivalent (about 10 percent of the proposed credit) is
recommended; this amount represents the estimated foreign exchange
component of payments for project works since December 1, 1966. Approxi-
mately 15 percent of that amount relates to engineering of the proposed
trunk road reconstruction, 70 percent to the construction and supervision
of work on Trunlk Roads Nos. 1 and 2 (see para. ).26) and the remainder
to the engineering of the secondary/feeder roads, for the construction
of which the Government proposes to submit a project this year.
4.31      Annual requirements of foreign currency, based on the MOW's
schedule of engineering and construction, would be as follows:
1968        1969       1970       1971      TOTAL
Amount (US$ million)    3.5         3.8        2.9       05        10.7
The disbursement shown against 1971 is to meet the requirements of the
Training Scheme and of residual payments against construction and supervision.



-17-
4.32      The foreign exchange component for the project as a whole is abolut
66 percent (para.. 4.24). Credit funds should therefore be disbursed on the
basis of 66 percent of (i) actual paymenits to contractors for civil works
(ii) actual payments to consultants for engineering and supervision; (iii)
assessed cost of departmental engineering and supervision; and (iv) the
cost to Government net of taxes of the proposed Staff Training Scheme. Any
savings in funds provided under the proposed credit should be cancelled.
5. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Road Works to be Financed Under the Project
5eOl      The econormic benefits of the project arise principally in the
form of reduced operating costs for vehicles, due to improvements in road
surfaces and design standards generally (See Table 9). On some of the roads
there will be additional savings because of shorter travel distances re-
sulting from improved alignments and, in some cases, a reduction in future
outlays on road maintenance. The economic rates of return calculated for
each road section are based on savings arising from these sources. They
take into account the normal increases in traffic expected without the road
improvements, as well as new traffic expected to be induced as a consequence
of the improvementse The benefits yield returns-ranging from 15 percent to
25 percent for individual sections over a twenty-year life, with a weighted
average of 18 percent overall.  It is concluded that the proposed works, both
individually and as a whole, are amply justified.
Traffic Forecasts
5.02      Regular traffic counts were made annually in Kenya between 1952
and 1961, but were subsequently suspended as an economy measure and replaced
by limited lad hoct studies. Recently, however, regular counts have been
reintroduced, and supplemented by a traffic census designed by the RRL with
counts taken at 60 points. For the country as a whole, the RRL expects the
number of road vehicles to increase in future by some 9 percent or 10 percent
p.as Although this may be a little optimistic, it appears that the normal
growth of traffic on the trunk road system, of which the project roads are a
part, is likely to be faster than this.  In general, the evidence available
from traffic counts on the project roads also suggests faster than average
growth rates, but it is insufficient to give a clear picture of specific
trends on each of the roads.
5.03      As a conservative estimate, therefore, normal traffic growth rates
of no more than 9 percent p,a. have been assumed for each of the project
roads in the first five years after completion.  In subsequent years these
have been reduced to 5 percent p.a. or less to reflect the greater uncertain-
ties of forecasting in the more distant future. In addition, induced increases
in traffic varying between 10 percent and 25 percent of the normal traffic
have been assumed, as a direct result of the Toad improvements, in each of the
first two years after completion of the project works, with increases restrict-
thereafter to the normal rate of traffic growth. In the light of evidence
presented by the Roads Branch on the effect of earlier highway improvements:
these assumpticas are considered reasonable.



Calculation of Economic Benefits
504h      Malindi-Kilifi (No. 1 - 3    i     ad Kibaonit   taa (No. 2 - 17
miles):  The rapid expansion of Kenya's tourist industry in recent years
has been particularly evident in the coastal area between Mombasa and
Jalindi. In addition to tourists arriving via scheduled liners and cruise
ships calling at Mombasa, both resorts are served by frequent air services
from Nairobi* The two road sections, Yalindi-Kilifi and Kibaoni-Ntwapa,
are part of the important coastal link between Mblindi and Mombasa. The-
connecting section, between Kibaoni and-Kilifi wras paved under Credit 70-KE.
The project includes paving the Malindi-Kilifi-section, which was re-
constructed to gravel standard under Credit 70-KE, and widening the Kibaoni--
Mtwapa section from single to two-lane bitumen standard. A return of 22 per.
cent is calculated for paving the Nalindi-Kilifi section, due to the
relatively low cost of providing the pavement as an extension to the present
work of reconstruction (para. 4.26). For the reconstruction as a whole
on this section, including the works under Credit 70-KE, the return is
estimated to be 18 percent. A return of 16 percent is expected from widening
the Kibaoni-Mtwapa Section, and the average return is 20 percent from the
combined works on this road included in the project0
5.05      Timau-Iyeru (No. 3 - 41 miles):  To the north-east of Mount Kenya,
the town of Meru is the center of an already prosperous area rich in
agricultural potential. Meru is also a focal point for movements between
the extensive but arid north and north-east of Kenya and the more populous
and wealthy areas to the south. In this part of the country, the highways
provide virtually the only means of transport, and development depends
essentially on the trunk roads leading southwards from Meru. Among the
alternative highway routes available, the road passing to the west of
Mount Kenya has substantial advantages over the two routes on the eastern
side of the mountain (see para. 5.06). The western route is already bitumen-
paved for nearly 120 of the 160 miles between Yeru and Nairobi; it passes
through more densely populated areas and towns en route, and it rovides access
to a much closer rail-head, less than 60 miles from Mern at Nanyuki. However,
the unpaved 41-mile section from the outskirts of Meru to Timau is still in
bad condition, poorly aligned and at times imnassable. The case far a new
alignment for this section further up the slopes of Mount Kenya is very
strong. It will provide a shorter, all-weather connection to Meru and the
surrounding areas, and the bitumen-surfacing will mean completion of a paved
road for the full distance from Moru to Nairobi, wJhich is likely to provide
considerable impetus to development of the regions north of Mount Kenya0
Taking into account the savings in vehicle operating costs resulting from
the shorter route as well as from the improved road standards, a return of
15 percent is estimated for the proposed works, in spite of the relatively
high costs that the works unavoidably involve.
5.o6      Embu-Ena:(No. 4 - 8 miles):   The trunk route from Nairobi to Meru
that passes around the eastern side of the mountain is already paved as far



-19-
as Embu; it is now proposed to extend the paving a further eight miles
fim Embu to Eha. On this section, the traffic is already more than 300 vpd,
but north of Eha it divides into two roads, the "old" and "new" routes
to Meru, neither of which carries sufficient traffic to justify paving beyond
Ena at the present time. Some of the present through-traffic on this road
is likely to be diverted to the trunk road passing to the west of Mount Kenya,
when paving of this alternative route is completed throughout its length
(see para. 5.5). On the other hand, it is also proposed eventually to
reconstruct part of the old Ena-Meru road, the engineering for which is
included for -financing in this project (see para. 5.15 below). This should
have a significant effect on traffic passing on to the Embu-Ena section,
while in addition, the new route from Ena to Meru is already encouraging
appreciable flows of intermediate traffic from the country opened up along
its alignment. On balance, therefore, the general development of these
areas to the east of Mount Kenya is likely to mean quite satisfactory
growth rates over the Embu-Ena section in the future. A return of 18 percent
is calculated from its proposed paving.
5.07      Kutus-Kerugoya (No. 5 - 6 miles)   This short stretch of road was
reconstructed to gravel standards in 1960, under a previous Bank Loan (256_;CE).
Since then its traffic has increased by an average of 15 percent p.a. and now
amounts to about 400 vpd. It servres a prosperous agricultural area in the
foothills of Mount Kenya, connecting with a paved trunk road that provides
easy access to Nairobi some 65 miles away. There is good reason to expect
further substantial increases in traffic on the road in future. The proposed
surfacing is estimated to offer a 19 percent rate of return.
5.08      Ahero-Nyakoe (No. 6 - 50 miles):  This is one of the three road
sections in the project forming parts of the route from Kisumu, via Kisii
and Kamagambo, to the south-western border with Tanzania. This section,
linking the prosperous Kisii farming area writh the railhead and administrative
center at Kisumu, has shown a steady traffic growth of 12 percent p.a.
throughout the past decade.  Present traffic amounts to 370 vpd, half of
which are heavy commercial vehicles. Adjacent road sections to the north
from Ahero, and southwards from Nyakoe, are already paved.  The proposed
improvement of this section from gravel to bitumen standards is essential
to accommodate traffic increases in the next five years, and is calculated
to yield a return of 22 percent. This high estimate is due in part to the
relatively low cost of providing paving on the existing engineered gravel
road constructed under Credit 70-KE.
5.09      Wanjare-Kamagambo (No. 7 - 10 miles):  The road running southwards
from Nyakoe is at present bitumen-surfaced only as far as Wanjare, but it is
now intended to reconstruct and pave the next 10 miles to Kamagambo, a town
at the intersection of several minor roads serving an area with considerable
agricultural potential. Traffic over this section already amounts to some
320 vpd, and is likely to be stimulated in future by the proposed improve-
ments to other lengthy sections of the route northwards and southwards
from Kamagambo, as well as by the reconstruction of the section itself. A
return of 15 percent is expected from this investment.
5.10      Kamagambo,-Suna (No. 8 - 28 miles): The road south of Kamagambo
continues to the southen border of Kenya and provides access to north-
western Tanzania, though at present the international traffic amounts only



-20-
to some 30 vpd. Between Kamagambo and Suna the road serves principally to
link the local agricultural communities with the markets further north.
The Government proposed that this section be reconstructed to gravel standards
and that paving be delayed for a few years. Traffic in excess of 300 vpd
is expected by 1970 when the works would be ccmnpleted which, in view of the
savings in vehicle operating costs to be expected, would be sufficient to
warrant paving by that time. There would also be a saving in the total
cost of reconstruction by paving at this stage compared with paving
separately in say five years' tirne. The estimated overall return on the
investment if paving were included in the reconstruction is 17 percent
compared with 14 percent if the road were to be reconstructed to gravel
standards and paved after five years. The return on the additional invest-
ment in paving at this time is estimated at 25 percent. It is concluded
that the extra initial outlay on paving would be amply justified and the
project, therefore, includes for reconstruction of this section to a paved
standard.
5fl1      Eldoret-Kapsabet (No. 9 - 26 miles):  Traffic on this road varies
from over 1,200 vpd in the vicinity of Eldoret to no more than 300 vpd in the
center section, rising again to about 400 vpd on the approaches to Kapsabet.
Local movements along the road clearly account for much of the traffic,
particularly to and from the railhead and markets at Eldoret. However, much
of the road that continues westwards from Kapsabet to Kisumu has recently been
reconstructed, and improvement of the only poor section remaining, which is
being financed by a previous IDA credit (70oKE), is now virtually completed.
As a result substantial increases are already likely in through traffic
between Eldoret and Kisumu, the two largest towns in this area of Kenya. In
the proposed project, the provision of bituminous paving between Eldoret and
Kapsabet will provide a further stimulus to such traffic as well as to local
movements. A return of 25 percent is expected from this proposal, reflecting
the relatively low costs of paving on the existing wcll-engineered alignment,
as well as the substantial traffic passing on the road.
5el2      KakaneaB-Eroderick Falls_5O 10-26 mi3es)       The trunk road from
Kisumu to Broderick Falls is already paved as far as Kakamega, but the last
26 miles of this route are still in pocr ccnditions and inadeq-uate for the
present traffic of 350 vpd. As in the case of the Kamagambo-SSma road
(para. 5.10) the Government proposed to reconstruct this section to gravel
btandards, but here again reconstruction to a paved standard would be eco-
nomically justified becanse of the le-val of traffic expected loy the time
the work would be completed in J.970. Reconstruction to a paved standard is
expected to yield a retlain of 20 percent on the investment cop,ared w-ith 17
percent on the overall investment in reconstructing to gravel standard3 at this
time and paving after, say 5 years.  The return on the additio:aaJ. investment
in paving at this tine is esthmiated at 27 percent. It is con D-Puded that the
extra initial outlay on paving wosuld be amply justified and the project,
there.fcre, includes for reconstruction of this section to a pDtved standard.



-21-
5.13      Msambweni-Lunga Lunga (No. 11 - 35 miles):  The main object of
the works proposed in the project is to p          improved road, some
12 miles shorter than the existing route, for thrcugh-traffic crossing the
border with Tanzania. This amounts to less than 100 vpd at present, but
it is expected that the Treaty for East African Cooperation, which came
into force in December 1967, will help to expand Kenya's trade with
Tanzania, and traffic on this road should increase accordingly. The
advantages offered by the much shorter alignment should also encourage more
vehicles to use the route, and the much easier access to the border is
likely to offer an attraction to the rapidly expanding tourist traffic
along the coast. Although part of the construction will follow a new
alignment, the section between  'sambweni and Ramisi represents improve-
ment to an existing road which is already carrying 300 vpd due largely
to the extensive and expanding cultivation of sugar in this area. Taking
into account the benefits to this traffic as well as to throagh-traffic
to the border, a return of 15 percent is calculated from the proposal as
a whole.
B. The Replacement of Ten Single-Lane Bridges
5.14      The replacement of single-lane bridges, situated on otherwise
good two-lane roads, has been included in the project primarily as a
safety measure (see para. 4.12). No attempt has been made to quantify
the potential benefits resulting from any reduction in traffic accidents
and delays, It is considered that these reductions and the advantages
of avoiding disruptions to traffic where existing bridges are subject to
flooding will be adequate to justify the proposals.
C. Road Works to be Engineered under the Project
5.15      The justification for including the engineering of certain
secondary/feeder roads in the project is based on the benefits expected
from their eventual cor truction. In the absence of detailed cost estimates
which the engineering will provide, assessments of economic returns can
only be considered in broad terms at this stage, but all 14 rcads to be
included are considered to show good prospects of offering satisfactory
returns ranging from not less than 10 percent to more than 20 percent.
Details relating to each of them are given in Tables 7 and 9.
6. CONCLJSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The project is well conceived and is timed to maintain the pace
of road development in Kenya; it is estimated to cost US$16.2 million
equivalent. The overall rate of return on the investment in the trunk
road element, which represents about 90 percent of the project, is
estimated at 18 percent.
6.02      Final engineering for the proposed work on the trunk roads and
bridges is complete. The cost estimates for about 85 percent of this
proposed work are based on accepted bids, and for the remainder on prices



-22-
which are current and appear realistic.   The cost estimates for detailed
engineering of secondary/feeder roads are based on the estimated cost of
constructiono The cost of the proposed Staff Training Scheme is based on
the net cost to Government of the seven expatriate appointments designed
to strengthen management and planning functions of the MOW.
6.03      The project is technically sound and no major problems are
anticipated during execution. The following principal points were agreed
with the Government during negotiations:
(i)  the acceptability of design standards, particularly for
pavement width (para 3.14);
(ii)  the continued improvement of road maintenance, parti-
cularly by local councils (para. 3.20); and
(iii)  the arrangements for the Staff Training Scheme
(para. h.17)
6.00      The project provides a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of
US$10.7 million equivalent to the Governiment of Kenya.
May 28, 1968



Table 1
KENYA:SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Length of Roads, 1957 to 1966
(Miles)
(Including municipal roads)
Improved Gravel      Unimproved
Year             Paved Roads     and Earth Roads          Roads          Total
1957                 453               8,371             15,642          24,466
1958                 500               8,456             15,738          24,694
1959                 531              8,739              15,657          24,927
1960                 634               9,276             15,905          25,815
1961                 746              9,391              15,844          25,981
1962                 925               9,353             15,606          25,884
1963               1,112               9,416             15,523          26,051
1964               1,125               9,406             15,523          26,054
1965               1,281               9,250             15,523          26,o54
1966               1,336               9,336             15,523          26,195
Source: Statistical Abstract, 1966.



KENYA - SECOIZ HIGHWA!S PhOJIbCT
Estimated Number of Motor Vehicles. 1955 to 1965
Total
Pick-ups &       Other                      Other Motor       (excluding motorcycles
Year      Automobiles       Light Trucks      Trucks         Buses        Vehicles              and trailers)
1955         25,900             15,300        9,500            600          2,000                  53,300
1956         28,700             17,200       10,100            700          2,500                  59,200
1957         31,200             18,400       10,100            800          2,900                  63,40o
1958         33,700              20,100      10,100            900          3,200                  68,000
1959.        36,000              21,200      10,100          1,000          3,600                  71,900
1960         40,000              23,600      10,200          1,100          4,000                  78,900
1961         42,400              24,600      10,300          1,300          4,300                  82,900
1962         45,200              26,200      10,300          1,400          4,600                  87,700
1963         48,o0o              27,800      10,300          1,600          5,100                  92,800
1964         50,500             30,000       10,200          1,800          5,700                  98,200
1965         53,700             32,900       10,200          2,000          6,200                 105,000
Average annual growth
rate in years:
1955 to 1960    9.0%               9.0%         1.5%         13.0%            15.0%                   8.3%
1960 to 1965    6.2%               7.0%         0.O%         12.9%             9.2%                   5.9%
uR
source: U.K. Road Research Laboratory






KE2YA - SEfOND HIGHW!AY F7DJUCT
Central Government Highway Expenditures & Receipts from Road User Taxation, 1959 to 1966
(E 0oo's)
Highway Exenditures                       Receipts from Taxation, etc.4V
(Year ends in June)                         (Year ends in December)
Receipts as
1                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~% of Expen-
Year     Construction       Maintenance     Administration     Total    Licenses    Fuel Taxes    Total    diture
1959           551               854             629           2,034       870          1,741     2,611       128
1960         1,513               941             683           3,137       863          2,367     3,230       103
1961         2,127               987             707           3,821       854          3,039     3,893       102
1962         2,211             1,175             652           4,038       902          4,020     4,922       122
1963         2,399             1,3412"           723           4,463       738          4,491     5,229       117
1964           799             1,131             649           2,579       668          4,755     5,423       210
1965           720               979             674           2,373       922          5,o66     5,988       252
1966         2,448g/           1,600             674           4,722     1,057          5,661     6,718       142
Average, 1959/1966       1i0
J/ Value of work exOcuted
2/  Heavy expenditur; due largely to IDA project and improvement of Nairobi-Mombasa road
i/  Extra-ordinary ma+ntenance due to flood damage
L/  Excludes import dities on vehicles and spares - some f 2.8 million in 1965/66
Sources: Ministry of Finance, and Roads branch of the Ikinistry of Works



Table h
KENYA: SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
HIGHWAY DESIGN STANDARDS
The highway standards, below, are those adopted by MOW in Kenya for
Type II and Type IIA roads (see para 3.2). Type IIA is a sub-division of
Type II and differs only from the latter in pavement width; a Type IIA
road has a pavement width of 20 ft, a Type II road 18 ft. All other
geometrical characteristics are the same. All the roads included in the
project are designated either Type II or Type IIA roads.
"Normal" Terrain         "Hilly" Terrain
Desirable Design Speed (mph)                  60                      40
Minimum acceptable design speed (mph)         50                      30
Gradient - desirable maximum         1 in 20 (5%)              1 in 15 (6.7%)
- absolute maximum          1 in 15 (6.7%)            1 in 12 (8.3%)
Radius of horizontal curvature:
Desirable minimum                        2000 ft                 500 ft
Absolute minimum                         1000 ft                 h00 ft
Design Speed (mph)
60      50      4O       30
Minimum Stopping Sight Distance (ft)         475     350     275      200
Minimum Overtaking Sight Distance (ft)      2000    1700    1300      800
Pavement and Shoulder Width
Type IIA:  20 ft bituminous paving with 4 ft shoulders
or 18 ft gravel paving with 6 ft shoulders
Type II:   18 ft bituminous paving with 4 ft   shoulders
or 18 ft gravel paving with 5 ft shoulders
Structures
(i) Loading Criterion
Trunk roads: B.S. 153, HA loading
Other roads: 2/3 of B.S. 153, HA loading
(ii) Width
For 2-lane carriageways, 24 ft carriageway



KENYA: SECOND HIGHWlAY PROJECT
TRUNK ROADS TO BE REOONSTRUCTED UNDER THE PROJECT
Length                                             Standard
Item          Road            (miles)         Terrain                 Existina               Pronosed                 Consultants                               Remarks
1     Malindi-Kilifi           38      coastal plain/rolling     Type IIA gravel        Type IIA bitumen      Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners           Being constricted to gravel standard under
Credit 70-KE
2     Kibaoni-Mtwapa           17     coastal plain/rolling      single width bitumen   Type IIA bitumen      Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners
3     Timau-Meru               11     hilly/mountainous          improved track         36 miles Type IIA     Edwards & Burrow                       Across   the northern slopes of
difficult at times     bitumen; 5 miles                                             Mount Kenya
Type IIA gravel
I     Embu-Ena                  8      rolling                   Type II gravel         Type II bitumen       Edwards and Burrow
5     Kutus-Kerugoya            6      rolling                   Type II gravel         Type IIA bitumen      Edwards and Burrow                      Although Type IIA bitumen proposed,
a relaxation in shoulder width is
to be accepted because road was
constructed initially to Type III
standard.
6     Ahero-Nyakoe             50      hilly                      Type II gravel        Type II bitumen       Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners           Main  Kisii-Kisujmi road; part of this
length was improved to gravel standard
under. Credit 70-KR.
7     Wanjare-Kamagambo        10      hilly                     improved track         Type II bitumen       Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners           Main road south frn.Kisii towards
Tanzania
8     Kamagambo-Suna           28      hilly                      improved track        Type II bitumen       Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners           Extension of item  (7) southwards
9     Eldoret-Kapsabet         26      rolling                    Type II gravel        Type IIA bitumen      Design by MOW; supervision by           Improved to gravel standard under
Howard Humphreys, Keeble &              Loan 256-KE
Partners
10     Kakamega-Broderick
Falls                26      rolling                    improved track        Type IIA bitumen      Design by MOW; supervision by
Howard Humphreys, Keeble &
Partners
11     Hsambweni-Lunga Lunga    35      coastal plain/rolling     poor quality           20 miles Type IIA     Edwards and Burrow                      The south coast road, leading to the
pavemnt/track          bitumen; 15 miles                                            border   with Tanzania
Type II gravel
CD
r
m
C,,



KaVY  - SLCOID I1IG!U_'LY i2OJECT
Single-lane bridges to be replaced
(all replacement to provide a 24-ft-wide carriageway across the structure)
Item      Bridge              Location         Existing                               Remarks
span (ft)
1    Sagana         main Nanyuki-Nairobi                 alignment satisfactory and existing foundations considered
Road near Nyeri             68       adequate. Existing bridge to be widened
2    Amboni         eastern approach            35       on very sharp curve at the bottom of a hill; new structure
to Nyeri                             to be on an acceptable alignment
3    Chania         as (2)                      50       on very "blind" horizontal curve; new structure to be on
acceptable alignment
4    Hoey's bridge  Eldoret-Kitale road        111        aliRnment adequate but existing bridge in poor condition
(threeapan)  and subject to flooding; 3-span replacement structure to
be built adjacent to existing bidge
5    Sergoit        Eldoret-Kitale road         30       alignment adequate; existing bridge in poor condition;
single- span replacement structure to be constructed
adjacent to existing bridge
6    Wangozes       Sotik-Narok road            84        existing timber bridge in poor condition; proposed
replacement is a three-span concrete structure
7    Kagawet        as (6)                      60        existing timber bridge in poor condition; to be replaced
by a 60 ft concrete span on adjacent satisfactory alignment
8    Itare          Kericho-Sotik road         104        existing bridge on very sharp horizontal curve; to be
replaced by a three-span structure on acceptable alignment
9    Kitho          as (8)                       40       existing bridge very close to sharp horizontal curve;
proposed construction is single-span cor.crete structure       ON
on acceptable alignment
10    Lagana         Suna-Isebania road           40       existing structure in poor condition and on bad alignment;
proposed replacement to be constiucted on ncw alignment



KIBNYA: SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Secondary/Feeder Roads to be Engineered Under the Project
Approximate    Estimated Economic
Item                       Road                   Length - Milaes  Rate of Return -                b Engineering by                                               Remarks
A            Sections of the Embu-Meru Road           17           More than 20         Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners          Part of the "old"route between Dmbu and Meru passing through the higher slopes
on the east side of Mount Kenya, an intensively cultivated and heavily
populated area. The existing track is winding and narrow, but is already
carrying more than 200 vpd in places. The proposed road will be to improved
gravel standard, and will be eight miles shorter than the existing route.
B            Njoro-Elburgon-Molo-Mau Summit           25           15 to 20             Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners          A road feeding into the main Nakuru-Eldoret road and serving the ilolo area
on the north-east slopes of the Hau escarpment. 200,000 acres are scheduled
for development in this area within the next decade. Much of the road already
carries hO4 vpd; it is intended to provide bitumen paving.
C            Fort Hall-Kairini                        22           15 to 20             Edwards & Burrow                       An existing low-grade but important track from Fort Hall up the eastern
slopes of the Aberdare mountains. The road serves a rich farming area pro-
ducing a variety of cash crops. With only 130 vpd at present, the improvement
will be to gravel standards.
D            Fiwingi Bridge Road                       7           10 to 15             East African Engineering               Part of the road from Nairobi to Garissa, providing a main access from Nairobi
Consultants                            to eastern Kenya. This 7-mile length near Mwingi, 90 miles east of Nairobi,
negotiates a difficult escarpment and is freqently impassable in the rainy
season.
Uplands-Kinare                           l4           More than 20         HOW                                     Serves an important area close to Nairobi and currently carrying 400 vpd. The
area provides much of the vegetables and dairy produce sold in the Nairobi
maxtets. The proposal is to improve the road to bitumen standards.
F            Gilgil-Ol Joro Orok                      26           Over 20              MOW                                    A road east of Nakuru and west of the Aberdare mountains, serving one of the
larger settlement schemes. Current traffic is nearly 400 vpd; the road will be
bitumen  paved.
Kakamega-Bungoma                         43           10 to 15             MOW                                    A road north of Kisumu and joining the main Uganda/Kerya trunk road west of
aaldoret. The road passes throalgh an area where the soils have been classified
as amDngst the best agricultural soi-ls in the country. This is a major maize
producing region; other products include coffees sugar cane, cotton. The
improvement will be to gravel standards.
H            Luanda-Mumias                            13           15 to 20             MOW                                     This is a lov grade track carrying more than 100 vpd. It passes through the
only area in western Kenya scheduled for the production of white sugar. Sugar
trials are in progress and a sugar factory is proposed in Mumias. The road
will be improved to gravel standards.
J            Ngombeni-Kwale                           15           10 to 15             MOW                                    This road, carrying 150 vpd, leaves the south coast road south of Mombasa and
serves the town of Kwale and the Shimba Hills settlement scheme, one o_ the major
settlements in the coastal province. The area produces high quality vegetables,
maize, cassava, and cashew nuts. The road will be improved to gravel standards.
K            Homa Bay-Kendu Bay                       19           15 to 20             HoW                                     This road serving the eastern shore of Lake Victoria is currently a slightly
improved track carrying nearly 150 vpd. The improvement will be to gravel
stardards.
L            Kisii-Manga                               9           15 to 20             MOW                                     This is a low standard track in the heavily cultivated area of Kisii Highlands,
carrying 130 vpd. Produce of the area includes coffee, tea, maize, potatoes.
The proposal is for improvement to gravel standards.
M            Sotik-Litein-Kericho                     15           More than 20         MOW                                     This is an existing single-width bituminous road which it is proposed to upgrade
to deuble width. It presently carries traffic of over 1,000 vpd at the Kericho
end. The improvements envisaged include minor betterments of alignment as well
as the widening of the pavement.
N            Kerugoya-Kangaita                         8           15 to 20             Edwards & Burrow                        This road is an extension of Trunk Road No. 5 (Kutus-Kerugoya) and leads to the
tea factory and to the largest tea nursery in the country on Kangaita. It also
provides access to heavily cultivated areas and carries more than 200 vPd
in places. The road will be improved to a paved standard.
F            Njoro-Ehangipiri                         33           About 20             Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners           This road adjoins the Njoro-Mau Summit road, (item B above). It passes           C
through areas of mixed farming and then through the wheat-growing areas of        r
266                                                                       the Masai settlement near Mau Narok. The 8-mile length adjacent to Njoro          mn
carries traffic in excess of 250 vpd and is to be paved. The remaining 25
miles carries traffic of about 100 vpd are to be improved to gravel standards.



TABLE 8
KENYA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Ref. on                                             Kenya                   U$
,MhP_.      Trunk Road Reconstruction             Pounds               Equivalent
000's)                  OOOJs)
1          14alindi-Kilifi )
2          Kibaoni-Mtwapa )450                                        1s260
3          Timau-Meru      )
4          Embu-Ena        )                     1,047                2,933
5          Kutus-Kerugoya  )
6          Ahero-Nyakoe       )
7          Wanjare- Kamagambo )                  1,320                3,696
8          Kamagambo-Suna     )
9          Eldoret-Kapsabet         )
10          Kakamega-Broderick Falls )              758                2,122
21          Nsambweni-Lunga Lunga                   590                162
Bridge Replacement
Kenya   Us$
Pounds  E      ent
Thooos)    000:8)
1          Sagana           5         15
2          Amboni          25         70
3          Chania          29         80
4          Hoeyts Bridge   21         60
5          Sergoit         11         30
6          Nyangores       11         30
7          Kagawet         20         55
8          Itare           23         65
9          Kitho           20         55
10          Lagana          21         60           186                   2
14, 3511218
Design                                  196                  550
Supervision                             271                  760
Engineering of Secondary/Feeder Roads   179                  500
Training Scheme                         150                  420
5j,147                   3
Contingencies
Physical (7%)                        361                1,000
Price Escalation (5%)                                       1 730
Say                        US$16.2 miJJL' e
Note: Individual amounts have been "rounded" in each currency;
conversions between the currencies are, therefore, only
approximate.



TABLE 9
KENYA
SECOND HIGHVIAY PROJECT
Savings in Vehicle Cperating Costs
Resulting from Road Improvements
CImprovement to two-lane             Estimated Savings: U.S. cents per vehicle-mile
titumen standards from:     Code        Light vehicles       Heavy vehicles*
(cars, pick-ups,      (trucks and buses)
light vans)
Jmproved track                1              3.8                    8.4
slightly improved gravel      2              3.1                    6.7
Fproved gravel                3              2.4                    5.0
3ingle-lane bitumen           4             1.2-                    2.5
geconstruction to improved
gkravel standards from:
$lightly improved track       5              2.9                    6.7
Improved track                6              1.4                    3.4
* Savings for "heavy vehicles" are equivalent to savings for a 6/7-ton truck.
4!                     Improvements Proposed for Project Roads
oads to be Reconstructed                               Improvement as coded above
. Malindi-Kilifi                                                   3
?. Kibaoni-Mtwapa                                                   4
3. Timau-Meru                                                       1
. Embu-Eha                                                         2
~. > Kutus-Kerugoya                                                  3
6. Ahero--Nyakoe                                                    3
'. Wanjare-Kamagambo                                                1
8. Kamagambo-Suna                                                   1
2.  Eldoret-Kapsabet                                                3
10. Kakamega-Broderick Falls                                        1
11. Msambweni-Lunga Lunga                                       1 and 6
Roads to be Engineered
A.  Embu-Meru                                                       6
B. Njoro-Elburgon-Molo-Mau Summit                                   2
C.  Fort Hall-Kairini                                               5
D.  Mwingi Bridge Road                                              5
E. Uplands-Kinare                                                   2
F.  Gilgil-Ol Joro Orok                                             1
G. Kakamega-Bungoma                                                 6
H. Luanda-Mumias                                                    5
J. Kwale-Ngombeni                                                   6
K. Homa Bay-Kendu Bay                                               5
L. Manga-Kisii                                                      5
M. Sotik-Litein-Kericho                                             4
N. Kerugoya-Kangaita                                            1 and 3
P. Njoro-Enangipiri                                             1 and 6
NOTE: Tho savings expected in vehicle operating costs are based on results of
Road Research Laboratory investigations in East Africa, adapted by the
Roads Branch and the Bank mission to reflect the road improvements in the
project.



KENYA: SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF WORKS (1967)
in relation to
THE PROPOSED STAFF TRAINING SCHEME
MINISTER FOR WORKS
I
PERMANENT SECRETARY FOR
WORKS
ENGINEER-IN-CHIEF
(Electrical                                (Structures       (Buildings Branch)        (Quantity Surveying                       -           Provincial
Branch)              !                   Branch)                 I                     Branch)                            _    - - _    Engineers            (Mechanical Engineering Branch)
(Materials Branch)           I              Chief Architect                                                                                                  I
(Material Branch Chief Structural    Chie A      c                                                 (Roads Branch)                          Chief Mechanical Engineer
Engineer                                    Chief Quantity Surveyoc _                               -                       I
Chief Materials Engineer        I                                                                                 I               |                \ Deputy Chief  S upernumarary
Supernumerary                                                                                   I                         Chief Engieer (Roads)                   Mechanical       Superintending
Superintending   Deputy Chief Materials                                                                                                                           Engineer         Mechanical
Materials                Engineer                                                                                                                                                  E n E r gineer
lEngineer                                                                                                                          I            ("Design &
Materials Engineers                                                        "Maintenance")                                    Constmxction")
Chief   ateral.                                                                 Senior Superintending       S        apernumerary       Senior Superintending Egineer
sistant          Materi al. Assistants                                           Engineer (Maintenance)              Senior Super-         (Planning)
intending EngineerJ
(Planning)
("Departmental              ("Local Council                ("Design & Construction)            ("Forward Plannine")          \
Maintenance")               M   t    ce")                          I
Superintending Engineer           Superintending       Supernumerary
Supernumerary       Superintending Engineer       Superintendihg Engineer             (Design & Construction)            Engineer             Superintending
Superintending       (Maintenance)                 (Inspection)                                                          (Forward Planning)  Engineer
Engineer                                                      l                         _n                                                        e(ForwardPlaning
(Maintenance)                                                                           Supernumerary     =   Surveyor              I
Engineers,                                                          Chief Technical
Road Superintendents,                                               Assistant
Inspectors                                                          (Survey)
Foremen                                                                              surveyor assistants
MOW road construction units                                                          stereo plotting assistants
LEGEND:                                                                                                                                  drawing office
represents positions in the
proposed Staff Training Scheme
NOTE: For simplification, junior positions have been omitted from the chart.



O C   = Js jY/aSM<
I~\       
AA -'  ':  C A 
os    ''' A  A A 0 A A_.
_~~~~~  A 4 A''.  /' AA0



