Docment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4289-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
OF SDR 52.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
April 15, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency - Yuan (Y)
Calendar 1985             March 1986
$1   = Y2.93                 Y3.20
Y1.0 = $0.34                 $0.31
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)       = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)  = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)    = 2.47 acres
1mu               = .067 ha
i ton             = 1,000 kg
= 2,205 pounds
1 kg              = 2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABC          -   Agriculture Bank of China
BAP          -   Bureau of Aquatic Products
BFA          -   Bureau of Fisheries Administration
BOF          -   Bureau of Finance
CPO          -   County Project Office
FDC          -   Fisheries Development Corporation
FPO          -   Fishery Project Office
CAIC         -   GeneraL Administration of Industry and Commerce
ICB          -   International Competitive Bidding
ILS          -   International and Local Shopping
MAAF         -   Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
Fisheries
MACHIMPEX    -   China Machinery Import and Export Corporation
MPO          -   Municipal Project Office
PCC          -   Project Coordinating Committee
RCC          -   Rural Credit Cooperative



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
CHINA
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        People's Republic of China
Amount:          SDR 52.0 million ($60 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
Relending Terms: Twenty years, including five years of grace, at fixed
interest rate of 4.5Z p.a.; foreign exchange risk to be borne
by the project cities.
Project
Description:   In support of the Government's program to triple production
of freshwater fish by the year 2000, the proposed project
would expand and develop intensive pond culture in the
vicinity of eight major urban centers. It would introduce
into each project area an integrated fisheries production,
extension and marketing system operating on a fully
commercial basis. Overall, the project would improve
6,100 ha of existing ponds and establish 11,100 ha of new
ponds on land unsuitable for crop production. It would
provide equipment, vehicles, and support facilities,
including 14 feed mills, 4 cold storage plants, 4 over-
wintering facilities, a hatchery, a vaccine factory and 7
trade centers. The project would strengthen fisheries
research and extension services through the provision of
technical assistance and training and the construction and/or
equipping of eight technical service centers. The technical
assistance and training component would also be used to
upgrade the qualifications of project staff to implement the
proposed project and further fisheries development activ-
ities. At full development the project would produce
annually about 85,000 tons of freshwater fish and 75,000 tons
of fish feed and would provide an additional 7,100 full-time
jobs in rural areas surrounding the cities. The project
faces no significant technical or management risks.
[ This document has a stricted distibution and may be used by cipients only in th perfomancu:
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



,s, , .-   ii  t l, - '
Estimated Cost: t. ,
., .   ;;   .   Local  Fore      Total
*     ---   (S oln)
Pond construction                             86.0      20.8     106.8
Support facilities                            12.0       5.7      17.7
Vehicles nd construction equipment.            1.5      16.9       18.4
Production materials and equipment             5.4       2.2       7.6
Training and technical- assistance             0.3       0.5       0.8
Base cost        .-.                    105.2      46.1     151.3
Physical contingencies                         9.4       3.9       13.3
Price contingencies                           23.1      10.0      33.1
Total project cost /a                   137.7      60.0     197.7
Financing Plan:
IDA                                            0.0      60.0      60.0
Provincial governments                         7.6       0.0        7.6
Hunicipal governments                         63.8       0.0       63.8
County/district governments                   24.4       0.0       24.4
Taownships                                    41.9       0.0      41.9
Total                                   137.7      60.0     197.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank/IDA FY                       1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Annual                             3.0    15.0    18.0    15.0      9.0
Cumulative                         3.0    18.0    36.0    51.0    60.0
Rate of Return: 28%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5976-CRA, dated April 7, 1986
/a The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOHMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recom=endation on a proposed
credit to the People's RepubLic of China to help finance a-freshwater fish-
eries project. The credit, for SDR 52.0 million ($60 million equivalent),
would be on standard rDA terms. The proceeds oWtheIrDA credit would be
onlent to the project cities at 4.5Z p.a. for twenty years, including five
years of grace. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the cities.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic report entitled, "China: Long-Term Issues and
Options" (No. 5206-CHA) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 22,
1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Since 1978, China has initiated economic reforms in both rural and
urban areas and in the external sector. Reforms have been greatest in rural
areas. Following some experiments with the abolition of collective farming in
impoverished areas, the Government implemented a comprehensive restructuring
of rural institutions based on various forms of the "production responsibility
system". By 1983 the farm household had become the fundamental unit of man-
agement and production in agriculture, within a framework of collective or
state ownership of land and major fized assets. Reforms have not yet proceed-
ed as far in the urban economy, but there have been significant changes in
enterprise management and finance. The scope for collective and individual
economic activities has been enlarged and state enterprises have been allowed
greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing above their mandatory
plan targets. State enterprises have also been allowed to retain some profits
and investment projects have increasingly been financed on a loan rather than
a grant basis.
4.        In international trade and investment, China has promoted opening up
to the rest of the world in recent years. Between 1978 and 1984, the share of
exports to GDP nearly doubled to about 10%, a ratio similar to other large
economies such as the U.S. and Brazil. Foreign investment has been encour-
aged, first through establishment of four Special Economic Zones and signing
of joint venture contracts for offshore oil exploration, and more recently
through opening of several coastal cities to foreign investment.
Crowth and Stabilization
5.        Reforms have helped stimulate rapid development of the whote
economy.  Real CDP growth averaged 5% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 and 10% p.a.



- 2 -
between 1981 and 1984. During these six years, per capita incomes in real
terms more than doubled in rural areas and increased by more than 502 in urban
areas. Agriculture has continued its remarkably strong performance, with
gross agricultural output value (excluding rural industry and commerce) rising
at nearly 11% p.a. between 1981 and 1984 and grain output at 8% p.a. (reaching
over 400 million tons in 1984). Cash crops and animal husbandry, stimulated
by rising demand and attractive prices, have also grown rapidly. Gross indus-
trial output value grew at over 102 p.a. over the same period, with heavy
industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12Z p.a. vs. 9X p.a.).
If rural industrial output is included, total industrial output value grew at
close to 122 p.a. in real terms between 1981 and 1984. The energy constraint
on industrial growth was eased by rising coal output (82 p.a. between 1981 and
1984), renewed increases in crude oil production (4Z p.a. between 1981 and
1984) and improvements in the efficiency of energy utilization (primary comr-
mercial energy consumption grew only 60X as fast as GDP between 1981 and
1984). Manufactured exports growth at 82 p.a. between 1981 and 1984 was
slower than during the 1978-81 period but it started from a much higher base
and in the face of worsening world market conditions.
6.        The Government continues to face difficulties in combining system
reform and rapid overall growth with maintenance of economic stability.
During 1979 and 1980, China experienced large budget and current account
deficits combined with excessive investment and inflationary pressures. In
response, a strict stabilization program was introduced in 1981 relying mainly
on administrative controls on investment spending. The program slowed growth
but also helped lower the budget deficit from about 52 of CDP in 1979 to less
than 12 in 1981, reduce inflation to around 22 p.a., and change China's exter-
nal position to one of current account surpluses averaging nearly $4 billion
during 1982-84. As a result, foreign debt and debt service ratios remained at
low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.52 respectively in 1983) and China's foreign
currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion (over 7 months'
imports) by mid-1984.
7.        This comfortable balance of payments position, achieved at the cost
of drastic reductions in investment spending and some recentralization of
investment decisionmaking, disappeared rapidly during the course of 1984 and
earLy 1985. Partly as a result of decentralization of decisionmaking and the
lack of effective indirect levers, there was a rapid acceleration of invest-
ment and consumption during 1984 and the first half of 1985 causing the econ-
omy to overheat. Real GDP grew by 142 during 1984, while average wages in
state-owned enterprises rose by 20% and domestic credit grew by 362. The
retail price index rose by only 32 in 1984, preliminary figures show an
inflation rate of 9% for 1985. Imports of capital goods increased from
$4 billion in 1983 to over $7 billion in 1984, with most of the increase
occurring in the second half of the year. There was also a rapid expansion in
consumer goods imports. These trends continued during early 1985. As a
result, foreign exchange reserves (excluding gold) had fallen to about
$11 billion by June 1985 (equivalent to 3.5 months of exports), and the
current account deficit for the year is likely to be in the range of
$10 billion. The Government has responded quickly by launchig a strict
stabilization program that includes further increases in interest rates as
well as a series of administrative directives governing bank credit and



-3-
project approval. As a result, aggregate credit and demand as well as new
import orders have begun to slow, though total imports will continue to rise
as past orders are filled.
Recent Reforms
8.        The Central Committee of the Chinese Comnunist Party issued a major
document on "reform of the economic structure" in October 1984. Recent reform
developments have been fully in accordance with the directions indicated in
the October decision: (a) state enterprises should be made fully independent
units which pursue profits and are responsible for losses; (b) the scope of
mandatory planning should be reduced and replaced by indicative planning while
the focus of planning should shift from annual to medium- and long-term guid-
ance planning; (c) a more rational price system should be introduced by reduc-
ing the role of state-controlled prices and increasing the role of "floating"
and free market prices; and (d) the tax system should be improved, finance and
banking should be reformed and a larger role should be given to indirect
macroeconomic regulation through instruments such as tax, credit and pricing
policy.
9.        Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagricul-
tural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on cash crops, animal husbandry, or nonagricul-
tural activities) and pooling of capital by small groups of households in
various types of ventures are becoming increasingly common forms of economic
organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for some agricultural
products have emerged. To encourage investment in land improvement and devel-
opment, farming contracts between collective and peasant households for the
use of land (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years) can
now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, the system of agri-
cultural procurement was changed.  Previously the Government purchased quota
output of grain and other crops at relatively low prices and stood ready to
purchase all above-quota output at a higher price. Under the new system,
procurement up to a certain amount (below former quota procurement) is based
on contracts concluded voluntarily between peasants and procurement agencies.
Prices for these purchases are based on the relatively high average price of
past years. Output above the contracted amount must be sold by peasants
directly on the free market, but the Government will intervene to purchase
grain if the price falls to the original low quota procurement price. Thus a
considerably larger portion of basic crop production will be produced for and
traded on markets with flexible prices.
10.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. In enterprise management, the focus has been on broadening
and delineating the decision-making authority of urban enterprises. Profit
retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and
to nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety
of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).



- 4 -
11.       In financial reforms, the most important new development has been
the implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by
state enterprises to the government budget. Though most enterprises have
switched to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the appli-
cation of a different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset the
impact of distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems have
resulted in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on the
fixed capital provided to state enterprises by the Covernment, and they have
hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed investment.
Financial discipline at the enterprise level remains weak, in spite of efforts
to strengthen accounting and auditing systems and more strictly enforce
existing financial regulations.
12.       Some progress has been made with price reform.  The majority of
agriculture commodity prices were decontrolled even before the recent change
in pricing and procurement of grain. Prices of many minor consumer goods are
also set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20% above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the man-
datory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw mate-
rials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized basic
consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to imple-
ment, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living stan-
dards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g., for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions, at largely uncontrolled prices, has
increased in recent years. Gradually over time, and only partly as a result
of conscious policy, a two-tier system is emerging; a large but shrinking
share of the total supply of most important goods is subject to mandatory plan
allocation and administratively set prices, while at the margin a substantial
and growing share is allocated by the market mechanism, largely at flexible
prices. This pattern may permit China to "grow out of the plan" in a rela-
tively smooth transition, though there are obvious threats to this strategy
arising from the strong incentive for arbitrage between planned and unplanned
realms.
13.       The Covernment recognizes the need to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management and has taken some steps to do so. The People's Bank
of China was established as a separate central bank at the beginning of 1984,
with its commercial banking functions taken on by the newly created Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China. In 1985, new methods of credit planning and
control were introduced and lower-level and specialized banks were given sig-
nificant redeposit requirements. Interest rates (including deposit rates)
were also raised in 1985, with some move toward unification of rates and
development of a term structure resembling that in other countries. Technical
transformation loans with a maturity less than one year and loans for working
capital now carry the same 7.9% interest rate while loans of longer maturity
carry higher rates, up to 10.8% for 10-year loans. However, interest rates on
budgetary capital construction loans (formerly grants) remain low and there
are a variety of directed credit schemes. On the external side greater use is
now being made of the exchange rate. The old internal settlement rate was
abolished at the beginning of 1985 and between January and end-October 1985



- 5 -
the rate against the U.S. dollar declined by over 13%. Despite these changes
progress in developing new indirect levers of control has been slow. Recent
difficulties in securing macroeconomic balance highlight the need to
strengthen institutions and macroeconomic management tools (including mone-
tary, fiscal, and exchange rate instruments) for a decentralized and more
market-oriented economy.
Long-Term Issues and Prospects
14.       In September 1985 a national party conference adopted a proposal
which will be the basis for drafting a new Seventh Five-Year Plan covering the
period 1986-90. The proposal reaffirms a political commitment to economic
reform and provides gAidelines for future reform and development. One of the
main objectives of the plan will be to create a favorable environment for
reform which, in turn, will set the stage for future development. Target
growth rates (7Z p.a. for industry, 6% for agriculture, a little over 7% for
GNP) are below rates of growth achieved with the Sixth Five-Year Plan, invest-
ment is to be restrained in the next few years, and emphasis is to be placed
upon quality rather than quantity of output. It is felt that slower growth
will facilitate reform.
15.       The plan proposal identifies three main areas of reform.  First,
enterprise management and incentives are to be improved by: giving enterprises
greater autonomy in production, pricing, and employment decisions; Lowering
and equalizing taxes; increasing competition; increasing accountability for
performance; and reforming personnel procedures. In addition, some small
state enterprises will be turned over to collective or individual management
through contract or lease. Second, the role of the market is to be extended
and market networks strengthened. The scope of mandatory planning will be
further reduced and markets for capital, technology, and labor will gradually
be developed. Third, the emphasis of planning will shift from detailed admin-
istrative control to indirect macroeconomic control through economic policy.
To this end a series of mutually reinforcing reforms in the planning, pricing,
fiscal, banking, and labor and wage systems will be introduced during the plan
period.
16.       Implementation of the plan proposal will help foster an environment
in which fundamental reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated
way. But specific policy measures will take time to design and then to imple-
ment. Many of the reforms required will be difficult, particularly since
reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appropriate
sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform in the
absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have limited
benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from tighter
financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted prices.
Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be incomplete without
eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises (which now
provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and in many
cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them with
Government-supported social service programs. The plan proposal suggests
moving in this direction by commercializing housing.



17.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well cver 6Z
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates. The plan proposal recognizes there must be
major structural changes in the economy over the next two decades, including a
reduction in the share of agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and
services (which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization.
There will also be a shift within agriculture, away from grain and basic crops
and into cash crops and animal husbandry. The new plan will emphasize devel-
opment of the service sector, mainly through removing restrictions on collec-
tive and individual activity. Urban development will focus on small and
medium sized cities and towns while restrictions on growth of large urban
areas will continue.
18.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve- -
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
in transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
19.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coordina-
ted reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management, and
social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education and
training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial. Back-
ward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be addressed
by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and transfer
of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories, suboptimal
scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in general are
related problems.
20.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore, as the plan proposal recognizes. Management of a reformed economy with
indirect fiscal, monetary, and other instruments is a major issue (see para.
13 above). In this context, maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the Gov-
ernment no longer accounts for the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding
inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns) will be major goals. Assuring
an adequate minimum standard of living for the population and an appropriate
level of social services will become a major challenge as enterprise and rural
communal responsibilities in these areas are reduced. The problem of poor,
backward rural areas in various parts of the country will continue to require
attention. Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the
fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and
lowering nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are
some options for alleviating poverty.



-7-
21.       In order to mobilize the external resources needed for rapid,
sustained growth the plan proposal calls for export growth of 40-50% over the
next five years, greater efforts to attract foreign investment, and increased
commercial borrowing. If exports grow at 8Z p.a. between 1984 and 1990 and
imports grow at 9% p.a., China would have a relatively modest current account
deficit of around $4-5 billion p.a. (except in 1985) during the remainder of
this decade, equivalent to about 1% of CGP. This implies that the present
debt service ratio would increase only moderately by 1990. If China's exports
grow more slowly, imports will probably have to be cut back because a higher
borrowing target, though feasible in terms of debt service indicators,  ;.'uld
probably run into supply constraints as China would become one of the largest
developing country borrowers. This highlights the need for continued export
growth in order to meet other plan objectives and service greater commercial
borrowing. The plan proposal recognizes that greater use of exchange rate and
pricing policies will be needed to encourage export growth.
22.       Even with continued good export performance, China will have sub-
stantial external capital requirements during the renainder of the decade.
Under the trade growth assumptions outlined above (exports growing at 8% p.a.
and imports at 92 p.a. during 1984-90), the current account deficit would be
over $5 billion in 1990 and the gross borrowing requirement would be about
$6.5 billion. If export growth fell to 6% p.a. during this period and imports
continued to grow at 9% p.a., the current account deficit would reach $14 bil-
lion by 1990. Although the plan proposal calls for increased borrowing at
commercial rates, access to concessionary capital will play an important role
in sustaining China's gruwth. China also has a claim to concessionary lending
because it is still one of the poorer countries of the world. But China's
access to concessionary capital to finance development and modernization is
limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of concessionary
capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other bilateral donors and
will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a. during the rest of
the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       To achieve the target growth rates envisioned in the Seventh Five-
Year Plan, to increase efficiency and to maintain equity in distribution,
China will need continuing economic reforms. China will need to import more
technology, increase trade, and expand investment. In the next few years,
therefore, the Bank can best assist China by increasing its access to foreign
technology and capital and supporting the implementation of reforms that will
help to increase the efficiency of resource use and reduce poverty.
24.       To address China's objective of updating technology, the Bank will
play the role of an intermediary. in transportation, energy, industry, agri-
culture and social sectors, the Bank will contribute to technology transfer by
bringing the Bank's experience to bear on project design and implementation
and by helping China to seek appropriate technical solutions through interna-
tional competitive bidding, training, and foreign technical assistance.



- 8 -
25.       Bank assistance will be closely linked with the Government's reform
efforts. There are five major elements common to both rural and urban reform
in China that will be the focus of the Bank's involvement. First, institu-
tional change, involving both the separation of economic and administrative
functions and further decentralization of decisionmaking, will extend to every
sector in which the Bank is involved. Second, financial sector reform, pri-
marily development of financial institutions, has become a focus of Bank
assistance. Third, improving planning and project analysis will be critical
to reform in sectors such as agriculture and industry, where decisions are now
being made by households and independent enterprises, as well as in ,nfra-
structure where direct government involvement will be required. The Bank will
therefore continue its emphasis on introducing appraisal methods and financial
planning as well es analysis of intersectoral issues. Fourth, the Bank will
be involved in the Government's major program of price reform and development
of indirect levers such as control via money, credit and fiscal policies. And
finally, the Bank will support reforms in health, education and other social
services and measures, in particular, to address the problems of poor regions.
Economic and Sector Work
26.       The Bank's economic and sector work in China aims at expanding the
understanding of the structure and direction of the Chinese economy and intro-
ducing to the Covernment new tools of economic management. This work provides
a foundation for Bank Group lending and for the dialogue with the Government
on development options and policies. Past work has included two major eco-
nomic reports, studies on sectoral investment analysis and planning, and col-
laborative research with Chinese institutione. The Bank has also organized
seminars on macroeconomic and sector issues.
27.       Over the next two years, the Bank will carry out a large program of
studies to follow up on issues identified in the most recent economic report
and analyze policy options. In this program, the Bank will examine alterna-
tives for developing the financial system, foreign trade and investment. It
will also analyze issues of intersectoral investment coordination and develop-
ment of resource-poor regions. One such study is already under way in Gansu
province to formulate programs for increasing interregional resource flows,
improving the efficiency of investment and reducing poverty. Research on
urban development, transport planning, and regional industrial development
will also be undertaken to form the basis for project preparation. Collabora-
tive studies with Chinese research institutions will continue. An ongoing
study of management and guidance of state-owned industrial enterprises will be
followed by a study of collective enterpr.ses, which are expected to become
increasingly important industrial organizations in the reformed system.
Lending Operations
28.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May of
1980, 34 projects involving lending of $3,279.1 million to China have been
approved. Of the projects, eleven have been in the agriculture sector, seven
in energy, four in transport, four in industry, four in education, two in
technical cooperation, and one each in health and water supply. In FY85, IFC
made its first investment in China of $17.02 million in automobile manufactur-



- 9 -
ing. Annex II contains a summary statement of these loans, credits and IFC
investment as of March 31, 1986.
29.       In addition to the proposed project and the recently approved second
rural credit, third industrial credit, second technical cooperation and pro-
vincial universities projects, we expect to present projects to the Board this
year for port, railway, power, petroleum and health. For FY87 and beyond, we
expect the lending program for China to continue to grow from current levels.
Infrastructure projects in energy and transport will remain priorities. Tech-
nical renovation of enterprises, particularly in industry, will be given
greater attention and support as will the regional approach to project devel-
opment, now being used to assess the needs of Gansu province.
30.       In the energy sector, future Bank lending will be aimed at improving
efficiency of energy consumption and expanding energy production. For exam-
ple, in the coal subsector, we will assist in upgrading the facilities and
operations of existing mines and in transferring improved technology for mines
under construction or in operation. In power, we will assist China in tech-
nology transfer, staff training and institution building. Through a power
tariff study, we will seek to introduce a tariff system based on marginal cost
and to increase the awareness of the need for a nationwide power system devel-
opment program. In the petroleum subsector, the rationale for project
involvement will lie in the identification, packaging and transfer of special-
ized technologies as well as in the strengthening of investment planning and
management capabilities.
31.       Future transport projects will both upgrade technology and
strengthen institutions. In roads, major changes in organization and finan-
cing will be required as a result of administrative decentralization and
introduction of the production responsibility system in rural areas. In rail-
ways, we will focus on technologies to improve domestic production of railway
equipment and materials in addition to our work on line construction and elec-
trification. We also intend to broaden our involvement in ports to include
coastal shipping and inland water transport. For all transport subsectors, we
will support efforts to improve financial analysis and investment planning.
32.       Agriculture lending will focus on developing institutions to provide
services to individual farmers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace
and pattern cf agricultural development. The shift from grant to loan finance
and the increased autonomy of the rural banking system will be major aspects
of change that will be supported through rural credit projects. We will con-
tinue to assist with the training, research, extension, and other service
activities of the ministries concerned with agriculture. In addition, we
expect to finance programs for specialized agricultural development such as
livestock and fisheries, and for irrigation and area development.
33.       Bank lending in industry, as in agriculture, will focus on strength-
ening of financial intermediaries which provide credit to state and collective
enterprises. In addition, we expect that there will be large regional proj-
ects in fertilizer, cement and machine tools and other subsector projects con-
cerned with upgrading technology and improving organization and management.



- 10 -
34.       Bank lending in education will gradually be broadened beyond the
present concentration on higher education. For example, we will finance voca-
tional and technical education which is now being given great emphasis in
China. In view of the Covernment's recent decision to universalize access to
primary and lower secondary education, another major aim of education lending
will be to assist with basic education, particularly in poor rural areas. In
this context, support for teacher education will be given priority.
35.       Project preparation in the urban sector is currently concentrated in
Shanghai on efforts to improve services, especially in environmental upgrading
and housing, and development of municipal institutions. Future lending is
expected to include support for development of medium-size and small urban
areas in specific provinces. In addition, we expect to continue lending for
rural water supply. Bank lending in health will provide access to new medical
technologies for more efficient health care in both the lingering problems of
communicable disease, primarily in poor rural areas, and the emerging problems
of chronic disease. This will involve further support for medical training
and planning and management of service delivery systems. Projects will also
support the reform of systems for supplying and financing health services.
36.       Cofinancing with multilateral and bilateral agencies has been
arranged for projects in coal, power, agriculture and rural water supply and
will remain a feature of our assistance program. We will explore further
options for cofinancing with export credit agencies. Commercial bank cofinan-
cing and the use of B-loans also appear viable, particularly as China
increases the overall volume of its foreign borrowing. In technical assis-
tance, we will continue to incorporate into projects components for training,
overseas study, and access to foreign expertise. In addition, we will be the
executing agency for a second UNDP umbrella project in China. EDI activities
remain an important element of the Bank's program and in coming years will
provide an extensive program of policy seminars for senior Chinese officials,
and economic and financial management courses and sector-specific training for
officials from core and line agencies.
Implementation
37.       Project implementation is generally proceeding well.  Most project
agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning Commis-
sion, have established and staffed offices to handle Bank projects. Disburse-
ment performance has also been satisfactory. Special accounts have been
established for 22 of the 34 approved projects and have helped to speed dis-
bursements. In October 1985, the Bank opened a resident office in Beijing to
support further expansion of the lending program, accelerate project prepara-
tion, improve project implementation and further economic and sector work.



- 11 -
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND FISHERIES IN CHINA
Agriculture
38.       Agriculture in China, including crops, livestock, forestry and fish-
eries, provides sustenance to over one billion people, is the source of income
for some 190 milLion farm families, and accounts for about 302 of the coun-
try's GDP. Only about 100 million ha of China's land area of 960 million ha
are arable. Farming systems are intensive, with large inputs of labor, chemi-
cal and organic fertilizer and water. Nearly half of the arable land is irri-
gated. Foodgrains occupy about 80% of the cropland and account for about 55Z
of total agricultural output. This intensive system of food production allows
China to meet the basic food requirements of its population (about 22% of the
world's total) from less than 8% of the world's arable land. Agricultural
production is carried out largely on household-managed farms within a frame-
work of collective or state ownership of land and major fixed assets.
39.       Since 1979, the gross value of agricultural output has grown at an
average annual rate of about 7%, or more than twice the rate achieved over the
previous two decades. Output of foodgrains increased by about 3.8% annually
over the last decade, reaching a record 407 million tons in 1984 despite
declines in cropped area and area sown with grains. Demand for agricultural
products is expected to increase steadily over the next two decades in
response to increasing per capita income and moderate population growth. If
consumption patterns in China follow those observed in other countries, higher
incomes will bring about a substantiaL restructuring of consumption involving
a market reduction in direct per capita consumption of grain and a correspond-
ing increase in the intake of meat, eggs, fish, milk, fruits, sugar and vege-
tables. To meet these expected changes in demand, the Government has posed
ambitious production targets for the year 2000, including a doubling of fish-
eries production primarily through large-scale expansion of freshwater ponds.
Success in achieving planned targets will depend on introducing new technol-
ogy, strengthening extension programs, and providing price and other incen-
tives to producers.
Fisheries
40.       Background.  China's fisheries subsector, including culture and
capture production from marine and freshwater sources, accounts for about 1Z
of gross value of agricultural output. Total fisheries production, essenti-
ally all of which is consumed domestically, increased from an annual average
of 4.2 million tons in 1974 to 6.2 million tons in 1984, an increase of 47%.
This increase was due mainly to the rapid growth of freshwater fisheries which
over the same period more than doubled from I to 2.3 million tons while pro-
duction of marine fisheries rose only 18% from 3.3 to 3.9 million tons. Des-
pite the overall steady expansion of fisheries output - China now ranks third
in the world in total production -- the corresponding growth in China's popu-
lation has kept the annual per capita consumption of fish at a constant 5 kg
which is less than one-third of the world average and low by comparison to
many other developing countries, e.g., Bangladesh (8 kg) and the Philippines
(35 kg).



- 12 -
41.       Capture and CulLure Fisheries.  The Chinese expect little change to
the year 2000 in the annual output of capture fisheriem, both marine and
freshwater. The marine fish catch, which takes place primarily in waters
within the continental shelf, is being expLoited to the fullest already and
there is some evidence of overfishing in coastal areas. Output from fresh-
water capture fisheries is expected to decLine somewhat over the next decade
and a half as a result of overfishing and worsening poLlution problems. Cul-
ture fisheries offer greater potential for growth. China has some 5 million
ha (75 million mu) of freshwater bodies and 1.3 million ha (20 million mu) of
coastal waters which are suitable for aquaculture, of which about 3 million ha
(60Z) and 170,000 ha (13X), respectively, are at present being used. About
one-third of the 3 million ha under freshwater aquaculture is small pond cul-
ture practiced by collective and state-owned fish farms which have fish as the
main crop. Management of the traditional system of integrated polyculture
practiced on smaLl ponds has been developed to a high standard in many parts
of China with careful attention paid to efficient use and recyling of availa-
ble resources.
42.       In recent years, the Chinese have introduced mechanical devices such
as aerators which have had a positive effect on yields. Introduction of con-
tract fish farming by specialized households under the production responsibil-
ity system has also contributed to a marked increase in yields. Some farms in
the lower reaches of the Yangtze and Pearl Rivers report yields as high as
7.5 tons/ha and recent figures for the north (Heilongjiang Province) indicate
yields of up to 4.5 tons/ha. Such yields are uncommon, however. Due to a
lack of standardization in design and management practices, wide variation in
yields exists with the average about 0.9 tons/ha in the north and 2.5 tons/ha
in the south. In short, though the introduction of household aquaculture has
acted as a spur to increased yields and production, further subsector growth
of the magnitude presently envisaged by the Government will require, in addi-
tion, broad dissemination of known technologies, ensuring market-oriented
prices, and strengthening the role of commercially-operated supply and market-
ing services.
43.       Fisheries Organizations.  At the central level, the primary respon-
sibility for the fisheries subsector rests with two bureaus within the Minis-
try of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries (KAAF), the Bureau of Aqua-
tic Products (BAP) which is responsible for fisheries development activities
and the Bureau of Fisheries Administration (BFA) which administers marine
fisheries regulations. Most provincial governments have fisheries agencies --
either a separate bureau, a part of a combined aquaculture, animal husbandry
and fisheries bureau, or a unit within the water resources bureau -- which are
administratively responsible to the provincial government and receive techni-
caL guidance from MAAF's BAP. A similar structure of agencies exists at the
municipal and county (or district) levels.
44.       During the past year, municipal and county governments have begun to
establish autonomous fisheries corporations. This move is part of a broader
effort within government to disengage enterprise management and operations
from the Government's administrative/regulatory activities, thus encouraging
growth of enterprises which are independent, profit-oriented and economically
efficient. The new corporations are service companies designed to provide on



- 13 -
a commercial basis a comprehensive range of support services to fish producers
including feed and fingerling supply, cold storage, transport, equipment pro-
curement, and extension, marketing, construction and engineering services. At
the production level, township governments are encouraging formation of fish
farms as commercial enterprises consisting of an average of 75 households and
50 ha of ponds. The municipal and county corporations and farm enterprises
are officially licensed accounting units which are authorized to borrow, own
assets and enter into contracts.
Sectoral Objectives and Bank Lending in Fisheries
45.       In the fisheries subsector, the Government aims to double overall
output by the year 2000. The culture of freshwater fish is projected to
increase nearly threefold or by 8% p.a. and to account for about three fourths
of the projected increase in total fisheries output. The Government is
encouraging formation of both small- and medium-scale enterprises to produce
and market fish products and is undertaking programs to strengthen a range of
support services including research, extension, feed processing, and cold
storage.
46.       Lending in China's fisheries subsector is part of the Bank's broader
efforts to assist the Government in diversifying agricultural output to meet
expected shifts in consumption and demand. While the proposed Freshwater
Fisheries Project is the Bank's first fulL-scale involvement in the subsector,
aquaculture components have figured importantly in other Bank-financed proj-
ects in agriculture which have had as their primary focus strengthening agri-
cultural support services, provision of credit, and area development. The
First Agricultural Education and Research Project (Cr. 1297-CHA), the Second
Agricultural Education Project (Ln 2444/Cr. 1500-CHA), and the Second Agri-
cultural Research Project (Cr. 1516-CHA) are providing scientific equipment,
computers and technical assistance and training to expand and upgrade two of
China's major fisheries colleges, Shanghai and Dalian, and two key fisheries
research institutes, one in Beijing and one at Lake Tai. The ongoing First
Rural Credit Project (Cr. 1462-CHA) and the recently approved Second Rural
Credit Project (Cr. 1642-CHA) are financing investments in Guangxi, Fujian,
and Hunan Provinces to construct and improve freshwater fish ponds managed by
collectives, state-owned enterprises, and individual households. Expansion of
freshwater pond culture is also being supported under the Pishihang-Chaohu
Area Development Project (Ln. 2579/Cr. 1606-CHA) which is strengthening the
capacity of about 140 nurseries to supply fry and fingerlings for new and
existing ponds in central Anhui Province.
Project Formulation and Rationale
47.       To help meet the expected shift in consumption patterns over the
next two decades, the Government has given priority to expansion of fisheries
output, now only IZ of GVAO. Development of freshwater culture fisheries,
particularly small pond culture, has been made a special target because of the
limited prospects for increasing output from capture fisheries, the potential
for significant yield increases from existing freshwater ponds, and the avail-
ability of unused or low-lying land suitable for conversion into fish ponds.
While in certain limited areas, particularly in the south, integrated carp



- 14 -
polyculture has been developed to a high technical standard with yields as
high as 7.5 tons/ha reported, a vast majority of existing fish ponds in China
produce yields of less than one ton per ha as a result of poorly designed pond
layout, use of inappropriate breeds of fish or stocking rates, and poor feed
management. To overcome these constraints to planned expansion of production,
the Government has developed a program of increased investments in aquaculture
development. Because of the inadequacy of transport and cold storage facili-
ties, the Government has decided to establish large scale fisheries operations
in the suburban areas of major cities where there is a large guaranteed market
for fresh fish.
48.       The proposed project would build new ponds and improve existing
ponds in the vicinity of eight cities which have the available land, adminis-
trative infrastructure, and investment resources for fish farm development and
where consumer demand is high and increasing. Attention would be given to a
range of activities specific to development of freshwater fisheries, beginning
with training new farmers, assuring the availability of inputs, strengthening
extension services for guidance in adopting new technology, and providing
assistance in marketing. The major rationale for Bank involvement in the pro-
posed project would be to assist in putting into place this large-scale com-
prehensive system of fisheries production, extension and marketing facilities;
to enable the BAPs and fisheries development corporations to gain access to
technologies available abroad in feed formulation, feed processing, cold
storage and intensive monoculture systems; and to help the Government create
commercial fisheries enterprises operating on principles of sound economic
management.
IV - THE PROJECT
49.       The original project proposal, prepared by the Bureau of Aquatic
Products (MAAF) and the eight municipal governments, was reviewed by a Bank
group mission in May 1984. During that and subsequent missions, discussions
involving these organizations and Bank staff led to various changes in the
project's scope and technical features. Negotiations were held in Washington
March 17-21, 1986 with a Chinese delegation led by Mr. Zhu Ping, Deputy Divi-
sion Chief, Ministry of Finance (MOF). A Staff Appraisal Report No. 5976-CHA,
dated April 7, 1986 is being distributed separately. Special features of the
project are given in the Credit and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map
showing project locations (IBRD 19410R) is attached.
Project Objective
50.       The principal objective of the proposed project is to assist the
Government in developing freshwater fish culture in the vicinity of eight
major urban centers by improving existing ponds and using land unsuitable for
crops for new pond construction; providing techniques and equipment for pond
management; and strengthening the support facilities for production and
marketing of fish.



- 15 -
Principal Project Features
51.       The eight project cities are:  Beijing, Chengdu, Chongqing,
Hangzhou, Harbin, Nanchang, Shanghai and Shenyang.  The project would include:
(a) establishment of 11,100 ha of new ponds and improvement of 6,100 ha
of existing ponds, including provision of water supply, drainage,
power supply, farm roads and buildings, and where required, pond
lining, flood protection, and slope protection;
(b) construction and equipping of support facilities, including 14 feed
mills, 4 cold storage plants, 6 technical service centers, 7 trade
centers, 20 ha of tilapia overwintering facilities, a vaccine fac-
tory and a 25 ha running-water hatchery;
(c) provision of construction equipment and vehicles to fish farms and
support facilities for production, extension and marketing;
(d) provision of production equipment and materials to fish farms; and
(e) a training and technical assistance program designed to upgrade the
qualifications of project staff to implement the proposed project
and continue fisheries development in the 8 cities.
Detailed Features
52.       Pond Development.  The project provides for construction of new
ponds and improvements of existing ponds according to BAP's guidelines, with
modifications to fit the specific situation in different locations. Ponds of
uniform size will be constructed in aggregations of 15-150 ha and organized as
fish farms. Pond improvement -- which generally involves deepening and
reshaping -- and the provision of filling and drainage facilities will be
carried out on farms already established. The lands to be developed are
swamps, marshes, or low-lying, poorly drained crop lands which are marginally
productive. Other conditions for selection of sites included proximity to the
market city, topography suitable for economical construction, ready access to
water, roads and electricity, availability of construction materials in the
vicinity, and minimal risk of flooding. Once these conditions were met, con-
sideration was given to the ability of the township to contribute to the pro-
posed investment in establishment or improvement of fish farms, and the wil-
lingness of individual farmers to participate.
53.       All the cities, except Chongqing, have existing irrigation systems
which will be the principal water supply source; Chongqing will use a combina-
tion of natural runoff and pumping from water sources in adjoining catchments.
Wells will be provided in Shenyang and Harbin, for use in winter when irriga-
tion systems are not in operation, and in Beijing, to supplement deliveries
from irrigation canals where allocations for fish ponds are limited.
54.       About 400 km of farm roads will be constructed to connect the farms
to the existing county and provincial road systems. These will generally be
1-2 km long and 4m wide with a gravel surface. About 900 km of distribution



- 16 -
lines, with the necessary substations and transformers, will be provided to
connect with the rural electrification Jystem already in place in the project
areas. About 78,000 m2 of offices, dwellings and workshops will be construc-
ted on th2 farms. To insure manure supplies for pond fertilization, about
120,000 m of sheds for poultry and swine will be included.
55.       Feed Mills.  A 6-8 ton/hr feed mill will be constructed in Beijing,
and 13 smaller mills with capacities of 1.5-2.5 tlhr will be provided in the
other seven cities. These mill, will have a combined annual output of 73,000
tons of high quality pelletized or extruded feed concentrate. Initial opera-
tions will be for the manufacture of a single type of feed to fit the carp
poLyculture system. The mills wiLl be equipped with laboratories for analyz-
ing raw material to determine the optimal feed composition with respect to
nutrients and price and to stimulate development of balanced formulations for
feed conversion efficiency. The use of feed concentrates in fisheries is
relatively new in China and proper formulations are under experimentation at a
number of research institutes. Study tours are planned for observation of
feed mills in the United States and Scandinavian countries, and feed formula-
tion studies will be conducted by local research institutes.
56.       Cold Storage Facilities.  Two cold storage plants with nominal capa-
city of 500 tons will be located in Harbin, and 1,000 ton capacity plants will
be provided for both Shenyang and Nanchang. The Nanchang facility will also
have a 25-ton per day ice making unit. The new plants will utilize rack stor-
age for improved handling and space management. In Beijing and Chongqing,
cold storage facilities will consist of 25-50 ton capacity prefabricated units
incorporated into the trade centers. The larger plants will be used for stor-
age of frozen fish to be sold during the main holiday seasons, and the smaller
units will be mainly for overnight refrigeration of unmarketed fish.
57.       Technical Service Centers.  The project will provide for construc-
tion and equipping of technical service centers. Each city will have a tech-
nical service center with simple laboratories, classrooms and offices, which
will be the locus of training and extension activities for project farmers.
Each center will be staffed with 25-30 persons, most of them fisheries spe-
cialists, engaged in conducting training courses for extension staff and proj-
ect farmers. From 1,500 to 2,500 fish farmers and aquaculture technicians
will be trained annually, to achieve a ratio of one "farmer technician" per 8
fish farms and 1 aquaculture technician per 15 farmers.
58.       Trade Centers.  Trade centers will be constructed in six cities.
The trade centers will be staffed and equipped to provide market information
to farmers and supply farm materials such as nets, thread, lines, grass seed,
fertilizer, and fuel. They will have retail fish outlets and may, when
needed, provide transport of fish from farm to market. Cafeteria and dormi-
tory facilities will also be included. In Beijing and Chongqing, the trade
centers will include prefabricated refrigeration units.
59.       Other Support Facilities.  Other support services to be provided by
the project include tilapia overwintering facilities, a vaccine factory and an
enclosed flowing-water hatchery. Tilapia overwintering facilities will be
constructed in Chengdu, Chongqing and Hangzhou, where environmental conditions



- 17 -
are suitable and a market for tilapia exists. The facilities will be mainly
for overvintering brood fish so that a supply of fry and fingerlings can be
provided to project farmers. In Beijing, a combination carp hatchery and
tilapia overwintering facility will be provided. A vaccine factory will be
constructed and equipped in Shanghai to produce a vaccine which can reduce
fish mortality due to a viral "bleeding disease." A hatchery, using power
plant exhaust heat, will be constructed in Harbin. Harbin is the northernmost
city in the project area and, until now, has had to rely on obtaining fry and
finaerling supplies from Cuangdong and other southern areas. The 25 ha hatch-
ery facility will provide a reliable supply of better quality stock through
in:ensive monoculture techniques.
60.       Construction Equipment and Vehicles.  The equipment fleets of the
project offices, FDCs (para. 75), support facilities and project area farms
will be expanded and replaced through procurement of 2,085 vehicles. Trucks
will be used primarily to transport fresh or live fish (in water or ice) from
farm to market; other uses will be for transport of fingerlings and fry,
grass, manure and other inputs. Trucks will be allocated to farms on the
basis of one ton of vehicle capacity per 6-10 ha. In addition, the project
will provide 30 bulldozers and seven excavators, which will be used for con-
struction or improvement of project ponds in Beijing, Harbin, Nanchang and
Shenyang.
61.       Production Equipment and Materials.  The project includes production
equipment such as workboats, nets, aerators, automatic feeders, blenders, and
fishing equipment. The project also provides for the initial stocking of fin-
gerlings, the first application of chemical fertilizers to the newly construc-
ted ponds, and feed components such as fish meal and vitamins, for the first
year's operation.
62.       Training and Technical Assistance.  To upgrade the qualifications of
local fisheries staff, the project will provide about 131 man-months of over-
seas training and study tours, 144 man-months of local training, and 5 man-
months of consulting services. About five one-month study tours with six to
eight persons each will visit feed mills, cold storage plants, fish breeding
facilities, and feed-intensive monoculture operations primarily in Northern
Europe, the US, Japan, and Southeast Asia. Overseas training will consist
of: (a) two- to six-week special programs, including visits to equipment
manufacturers and attendance at international conferences, organized for
senior project staff; and (b) short-term (one to three-month) courses for
technical staff in such areas as fish nutrition and fish farm management.
Additional short-term training opportunities in aquaculture technology as well
as business management will be provided under the local training subcomponent.
During negotiations, assurance was obtained that the training component will
be carried out in accordance with a program acceptable to IDA. The project
will also include five man-months of consulting services to help organize and
conduct local projects and computer-assisted data management. Consultants
will be selected under terms of reference agreed at negotiations and in
accordance with Bank Group Guidelines on the use of consultants. Feed mill
equipment suppliers will provide training in operation and maintenance as part
of the procurement packages. Research institutions in each project city will
be commissioned by the project coordinating committee and municipal project



- 18 -
office to provide technical advice to the project as necessary and to carry
out studies and experimentation to develop city-specific feed formulations.
63.       To assist in early procurement of equipment and other aspects of
project preparation, the IDA-financed Technical Cooperation Credit
(Cr. 1412-CHA) is being used to finance two preproject study tours abroad to
inspect feed mill equipment and fish breeding operations.
Implementation Schedule
64.       The project will be implemented over a five-year period beginning in
mid-1986. Pond construction will start in July 1986. Preparation of bid
documents by mid-1986 will allow the feed mills and cold storage facilities to
begin operation by early 1988. Technical service centers will be completed by
mid-1987, trade centers by mid-1988, and overwintering facilities by late
1988. The hatchery will be in operation by 1989. All project works will be
completed by the end of 1990.
Cost Estimates
65.       Total project cost in January 1986 prices is $197.7 million, with a
foreign exchange component of $60 million, or 30Z of the total. Unit prices
applied to quantity estimates for pond development and improvement, including
transmission lines, water supplies, roads, farm buildings, and the civil works
portion of support facilities are based on recent experience with similar work
in the vicinity of the cities. Prices for locally available materials and
equipment are based on data provided to the municipal project offices by local
suppliers. Prices for construction equipment, vehicles, feed processing, cold
storage and imported laboratory and production equipment are based on list
prices obtained from manufacturers. Physical contingencies (10Z of base cost)
range from 5% for equipment to 15% for civil works. Assumed price increases
amount to 20Z of the base cost plus physical contingencies and are based on
annual price escalation factors for goods and services of domestic and foreign
origin in US dollar equivalents of 7.0% in 1986 and 1987, 7.5% in 1988, 7.7%
in 1989 and 7.6% in 1990.
Financing
66.       Bank Group assistance will be an IDA Credit of SDR 52 million ($60
million equivalent) and will cover 30% of total project costs. The balance of
$137.7 million equivalent will be met from provincial governments ($7.6 mil-
lion equivalent), municipal governments ($63.8 million equivalent); county and
district governments ($24.4 million equivalent) and townships ($41.9 million
equivalent).



- 19 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANCEMENTS
($ million)
ICB       ILS    Other /a   Total
Pond development
Earthworks                                                    68.9       68.9
(20.7)     20.7
Other construction /b                     4.7 /c              67.9       72.6
(4.7)                (0)       (4.7)
Support facilities
Buildings                                 2.5 /c              11.6       14.1
(2.5)                (0)       (2.5)
Equipment                                 8.7        0.7                  9.4
(5.4)     (0.7)                (6.1)
Vehicles and construction equipment
Vehicles                                 18.0                            18.0
(18.0)                         (18.0)
Construction equipment                    4.4                             4.4
(4.4)                          (4.4)
Production materials and equpment
Production materials                                 6.3                  6.3
(2.7) /d             (2.7)
Production equipment                                 3.1                  3.1
(0.2)                (0.2)
Training and technical assistance                                  0.9       0.9
(0.7)     (0.7)
Total                               38.3      10.1      149.3      197.7
(35.0)     (3.6)    (21.4)    (60.0)
/a   Includes (i) local procedures, including force account and local
competitive bidding; and (ii) technical assistance and training.
lb   Includes slope protection, pond lining, flood protection, water supply
and drainage, power supply, roads and farm buildings.
/c   Steel and other construction materials.
7d   Excludes fry and fingerlings.
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Credit. All amounts include contingencies.
Procurement
67.       Goods worth about $38 million will be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The main
items to be procured are: (1) equipment for cold storage facilities and feed
processing plants ($8.7 million); (2) vehicles and construction equipment
($22.4 million); and (3) steel and other construction materials ($7.2 mil-
lion). Qualified domestic manufacturers will receive a preference of 15% of



- 20 -
c.i.f. bid price or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less, in bid
evaluation. Prior IDA review of contract awards will exclude small contracts
(Less than $200,000) estimated to cover less than 15% of the value of all con-
tracts. Working groups, composed of representatives from each municipality,
will prepare preliminary specifications for vehicles, equipment, and machinery
for cold storage and feed mills with the final preparation of bid documents to
be carried out by China Machinery Import and Export Corporation (MACHIMPEX),
the main agency for machinery procurement in China. Bid invitation and bid
evaluation and award recommendations will be the responsibility of MACHIMPEX
in consultation with the Fisheries Project Office (FPO).
68.       Laboratory and audio-visual equipment (for technical service cen-
ters, the vaccine factory, and the hatchery, totalling $0.7 million), produc-
tion materials (chemical fertilizers, fish meal, vitamins and feed additives,
totalling $2.7 million), and production equipment (totalling $0.2 million)
will be procured on the basis of three quotations, in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to the Association. Most of the production equipment is
fabricated locally production material requirements will be spread over the
implemented period and be in relatively small amounts. The FPO will consoli-
date, as far as practicable, the eight cities' procurement requirements into
single packages.
69.       Civil works for pond development ($136.8 million) and construction
of support facilities ($11.6 million) will be carried out by local construc-
tion teams. Because these works will be small and dispersed geographically
among 8 cities and 45 counties, they will not be suitabLe for ICB. Earthworks
will be carried out by force account or by other procedures acceptable to IDA.
In general, the work will be carried out by a township's own construction
bureau, with assistance from the county or municipal construction bureaus.
However, recently there has been a growing trend toward competitive bidding
for local construction jobs, with construction teams organized by collectives
or operated by county water conservancy and highway construction bureaus
bidding on works of the type included in the project. Wherever feasible, the
project management will encourage competitive bidding. Although procedures
vary among localities, bid advertisement is wide enough to secure numerous
bidders, and contract documernts clearly define the rights and obligations of
the parties involved and spell out the terms of payment.
Disbursements
70.       Disbursements under the Credit against expenditures for feed mills,
cold storage and technical service center equipment, vehicles, construction
equipment and materials, and production equipment and materials will be at
100% of foreign exchange costs of imported items, 100% of the ex-factory price
of locally manufactured items, and 75% of local expenditures for items pro-
cured locally. Disbursements for overseas and local training and technical
assistance will be 100% of total costs. Disbursements for earthworks will be
at 30% of total expenditures. Disbursements for training and contracts for
technical assistance, technical service center equipment, production materials
and equipment, and chemical fertilizers costing less than $200,000, and for
earthworks, will be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs), the sup-
porting documentation for which will be retained by the FPO. In the case of



- 21 -
earthworks, SOEs will be supported by progress reports showing physical quan-
tities and unit prices which will be updated annually by the FPO and reviewed
by the Bank.
71.       In order to provide for efficient disbursement of credit proceeds, a
special account will be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA with
an initial deposit of dolLar equivalent of SDR 3.5 million which represents
the average estimated four-month expenditure. Applications for replenishment
of the special account will be submitted quarterly, or whenever the special
account is drawn down to 50Z of its initial deposit, whichever comes first.
72.       The disbursement experience in China, although short, has been very
favorable and better than Bank-wide and regional averages. The projected dis-
bursement profile for the proposed project is in line with that for specific
investment loans in China. The project is expected to be completed by about
December 1990 and the closing date is June 30, 1991.
Accounts and Audits
73.       Records of expenditures will be compiled by county project offices
(CPOs) on the basis of accounts maintained by the township fish farms and
county FDCs. These records will be forwarded to municipal project offices
(MPOs) which will prepare consolidated accounts including their own records of
municipal level expenditures. After certification at the municipal level,
these accounts will be forwarded to MAAF's Fisheries Project Office (FPO) for
review. The FPO will in turn compile a complete report of project expendi-
tures. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that consolidated porject
cost accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA and the audited accounts submitted to IDA within six months of the close
of each financial year. It is expected that the State Audit Agency of the
central government will audit the consolidated accounts submitted by the FPO.
Environmental Effects
74.       The project will not have any adverse effect on environmental condi-
tions. Water drained from the ponds will have a high biological oxygen demand
and be deficien-. in dissolved oxygen; however, drained to irrigation systems,
these characteristics will not be detrimental and the water will have value as
fertilizer for crop application.
Project Organization and Implementation
75.       General.  The proposed project will be executed by the eight city
governments under the overall direction of BAP in KAAF. A Fisheries Project
Office, established in BAP, will coordinate project activities in the eight
cities and serve as the main link with IDA. Each project city, acting through
its BAP, bureau of finance (BOF) and other technical agencies, will be respon-
sible for carrying out project activities in the counties and districts under
its jurisdiction. City and county (district) BAPs will provide experienced
technical and managerial personnel to staff MPOs and CPOs established to man-
age overall project planning and to supervise the inputs of local government
agencies in the execution of project physical works. Commercial fisheries



- 22 -
entities - city and county fisheries development corporations or other type
of entity authorized to engage in commercial activities (FDCs), township fish
farms and state farms -- will operate the support facilities and fish ponds
developed under the project. The Government and the project cities will enter
into Onlending and Project Implementation Agreements setting out their respec-
tive obligations in project implementation. Signing of the Onlending and
Project Implementation. Agreement with each of the project cities, except
Shanghai, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of
Credit effectiveness. Signing of the Agreement with Shanghai, as well as
delivery of a satisfactory legal opinon on the Agreement will be a condition
of disbursement for the Shanghai component of the project (para. 80).
76.       Fisheries Project Office.  The FPO within MAAF will be responsible
for maintaining project accounts and submitting disbursement applications to
IDA; monitoring construction schedules; administering local and overseas
training programs; supervising equipment and vehicle procurement; coordinating
interministerial activities; and compiling semi-annual reports on project
progress. A Technical Advisory Group will be formed to assist the FPO in such
matters as selection of foreign consultants, selection of candidates for local
and overseas training, and organization of conferences and exchange programs
among China's fisheries research institutes.
77.       Municipal and County Project Organizations.  Each city has set up a
Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), an interagency organization consisting
of representatives from provincial and municipal level technical and financial
agencies involved in the project. The PCC, chaired by a deputy mayor or a key
provincial official, will serve as a policy, planning and review board for the
project. To manage the day-to-day aspects of project implementation on behalf
of the PCC, each municipality has established a project office within its BAP.
Typically, the MPO will consist of staff from the provincial and municipal
BAPs, from other municipal agencies such as planning and finance, and from the
FDCs. The MPOs will coordinate and supervise overall project implementation
in participating counties and districts; prepare the annual work program and
budget for fish pond development and other civil works; secure all government
approvals; review site selection and technical standards for design and con-
struction of project works; approve construction contracts and supervise con-
struction; and arrange for distribution of equipment and vehicles financed by
the IDA Credit. All project disbursements will be made by municipal finance
bureaus on the recommendation of the MPOs.
78.       A structure of PCCs and project offices similar to that at the muni-
cipal level will be established for the counties and districts in the project.
The CPOs will prepare work schedules, construction contracts, and annual bud-
gets for county PCC approval. In addition, the CPOs will prepare preliminary
surveys and designs and supervise local units involved in construction of
project works. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the project
offices at the ministry, municipal and county levels will be maintained during
project implementation and adequately staffed with qualified personnel.
79.       Fish Farm and FDC Operations.  Project ponds, both new and improved,
will be organized by the townships into fish farms of about 50 ha and 75
households each. Each farm will operate under the General Administration of



- 23 -
Industry and Commerce (CAIC) license as a township (i.e., collectively owned)
enterprise with stipulated borrowing, contracting and ownership rights as well
as tax and accounting obligations. Farm:rs will be selected to join the farm
enterprises on the basis of applications screened by their own village coun-
cils and appropriate township offices.
80.       Project FDCs (para. 75) consist of support facilities -- cold
storage plants, feed mills, hatcheries, trade centers, technical service cen-
ters, and construction units -- serving mainly but not exclusively farmers in
the project areas. At the municipal level, with the exception of Shanghai,
FDCs will be state-owned corporations, with charters prepared and registered
with the GAIC in accordance with State Council regulations (August 14, 1985).
Drafts of the corporete charters for the municipal FDCs of Beijing, Chengdu,
Chongqing, Hangzhou, Harbin, Nanchang and Shenyang, were reviewed and dis-
cussed at negotiations. Receipt of the charters in final form approved by the
appropriate office of the CAIC will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
The Shanghai Municipal FDC (Shanghai Aquaculture General Farm), under current
government arrangements, is not a corporation registered with GAIC; however,
it is authorized to carry out production and commercial operations, including
activities planned under the project, through legal documentation issued by
the Shanghai Municipal Government. Delivery of documentary evidence and a
legal opinion with respect to the legal status of Shanghai Aquaculture General
Farm, satisfactory to IDA will be a condition for disbursement of Credit pro-
ceeds for the Shanghai component. An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that FDCs will be operated in accordance with operational guidelines aceptable
to IDA. The draft operational guidelines for the FDCs were reviewed and dis-
cussed at negotiations. These guidelines include arrangements for provision
of equity, financing plans, debt equity ratios; accounts and audits; staffing;
and management of enterprises. At full development, the FDCs will generate
sufficient profits from the support services to cover operating expenses,
depreciation, and repayment of investment costs.
81.       Flow of Funds.  The proposed IDA Credit will be disbursed against
expenditures for vehicLes, equipment, r-.oduc.ion materials, and construction
materials; for earthworks in construction of fish ponds; and for overseas and
domestic training, study tours, and consulting services. Funds for these
items will be onlent by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to the eight municipal
governmencs at 4.5Z p.a. interest to be repaid over 20 years including a 5-
year grace period. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the municipal
governments. These terms will be outlined in Onlending and Project Implemen-
tation Agreements between the Government and each of the project cities to be
concluded as a condition of effectiveness of the Credit, or a condition of
disbursement (in the case of Shanghai). Most IDA funds will be disbursed
directly to vendors under standard ICB arrangements. An additional portion
will be used by the cities to cover the costs of technical assistance and
training. The remaining IDA funds and all domestic funds will be chanreled
through local bureaus of finance and, upon approval of the local project
offices, will be disbursed for project expenditures incurred by the FDCs and
fish farms. The main source of domestic funds will be the municipalities with
additional contributions from counties, townships and (in the case of three
project cities: Chengdu, Harbin, and Nanchang) provincial governments
(Sich-ran, Heilongjiang, and Jiangxi, respectively). An assurance was obtained



- 24 -
at negotiations that the three provincial governments will provide in timely
fashion the required contributions.
82.       Cost Recovery.  The Government's economic reform policy since 1979
has supported a shift from grant to loan financing of development projects.
As a first step, funds from budgetary sources, both central and local, were
made available as interest-free loans. More recently, the governments at
various levels have begun to charge interest on these funds. While these
measures represent substantial and rapid progress towards greater investment
efficiency and financial discipline on the part of borrowers, there is not yet
in place a uniform interest rate structure which will apply to both bank loans
and loans from budgetary sources. In the proposed project, in order to ensure
consistency with other Bank-financed agriculture projects in China, recovery
of the IDA portion of total funding will be as follows: (a) for equipment and
materials for the trade centers and technical services centers, at a fixed
interest rate of 4.5% p.a., and (b) for all other items, at rates acceptable
to IDA, which are expected to average 7% p.a. An assurance to this effect was
obtained at negotiations. An understanding was reached that the criteria for
acceptability will normally be rates comparable to the ABC prevailing rates
for development loans, and that their acceptability will be reviewed by IDA
from time to time. An understanding was reached at negotiations that the
interest differential between MOF's rate to the cities (4.5%) and the cities'
rate to the FDCs and fish farms will accrue to the cities to cover the foreign
exchange risk associated with the project and to be reinvested in freshwater
fisheries development. Domestic funds will be recovered on terms and condi-
tions determined by the various local governments. These terms provide for
full cost recovery but at interest rates somewhat lower than ABC rates.
83.       The municipal and county project offices will have primary responsi-
bility for monitoring the repayment of project costs by the enterprises to the
finance bureaus. In the case of fish pond development, funds for equipment,
vehicles, construction materials and labor will be provided primarily by
cities, counties, and townships and also by the IDA credit. The mechanism for
recovery of these funds will be stipulated in contracts between the farmer and
the farm and between the farm and CPO. The townships will recover their
investment in pond development through taxes on profits of project fish farms.
84.       Funds for development of FDC support facilities will be provided
from the IDA Credit for vehicles, processing equipment, construction equipment
and materials; and from the provinces, municipalities or counties, for other
local costs, mainly civil works. FDCs' financial obligations and methods of
repayment in respect of the loan funds will be outlined in contracts between
FDCs and the cities and counties. MPOs will be responsible for recovery from
the FDCs of funds originating above the county level; the CPOs will handle
recovery of county investments.
Freshwater Fisheries Production
85.       The proposed project represents a transitional stage between the
traditional carp polyculture, based on stocking a combination of species which
utilize Lhe natural flora and fauna of the pond, and a modern feed intensive
monoculture. While in most of the project ponds, the traditional combination



- 25 -
of carp species will be stocked and grass application and manuring will be
continued, artificial feeding will be introduced in the standard pond manage-
ment practices. The project will support feed formulation research and the
adoption of modern aquaculture equipment and techniques, thus paving the way
for the introduction of intensive monoculture systems.
86.       Total output in the project area is expected to reach nearly 100,000
tons of fish at full development, with yields ranging from 4.5-7.5 t/ha,
depending on climate. With availability of higher quality balanced feed con-
centrates and provision of training and extension advice on pond management,
projected yields may be reached in the sixth year after new pond construction
and in the third year after pond improvement. Yield increases will be
obtained from higher stocking density and better growth potential or properly
constructed and maintained ponds. Strong markets exist in the eight cities
for aquatic products, especially freshwater fish.
87.       Strong markets for freshwater fish exist in eight project cities and
their surroUisding areas. Following sizeable increases in rural and urban
incomes during the period 1978-84, per capita consumption of fish and fish
products increased from 3.5 kg to 4.4 kg in rural areas and from about 6.0 kg
to 7.8 kg in urban areas. However, per capita consumption rates are low in
comparison with other developing countries.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
88.       The project will convert existing wastelands and Low-yield lands to
productive use, strengthen and expand the production base in freshwater fish-
eries, and help to fill the growing gap between the demand for and supply of
fish in eight major cities. The project will also strengthen the institu-
tional capabilities of local fisheries agencies to promote fisheries develop-
ment consistent with sound technical standards. The project will directly
benefit some 15,000 families or about 60,000 individuals involved in fish
production. At full development, the annual incremental output of fish will
amount to about 85,000 t or about six times the 1985 freshwater fisheries
production in the project areas. Production of fish feed at full development
will be about 75,000 t. At full development, the fish pond operations will
create an annual incremental demand for labor equivalent to 6,600 full-time
jobs. The project-assisted support facilities will generate about 500 full-
time jobs. The per capita annual incomes of the families operating the fish-
ponds are expected to range from Y 600 to Y 1,100, compared to the without-
project income of about Y 300.
89.       The financial rate of return (FRR) for the project is estimated at
20%, and the economic rate of return (ERR) at 28%. By city, the financial
rates of return are estimated to range between 17% and 21% and the economic
rates of return between 22% and 36%. The aggregate financial rate of return
for new fish ponds will be about 17% and for improved fish ponds, about 28%.
Regional differences in civil works and operating costs account for the varia-
tions between cities, which range from 16% to 18% for new fish ponds and 16Z
and 36% for improved fish ponds. Cash flow analysis indicates that cost
recovery will require periods ranging from 12 to 15 years for new fish ponds
and from 9 to 12 years for improved ponds. The investments in feed mills and



- 26 -
cold storage plants which will be managed by the municipal FDCs on a commer-
cial basis are estimated to yield FRRs of about 33% and 20%, respectively.
The rates of return for feed mills and cold storages tend to be sensitive to
variations in both costs and benefits, and, therefore, FDCs will ensure that
these are operated with cost efficiencies, improved output both through
greater capacity utilization and efficient management, and appropriate output
pricing. The support services to be provided by FDCs, are expected to be
priced at levels sufficient to cover costs with a modest surplus. At a
discount rate of 12Z, the net present value of the project is estimated at
Y 675 million ($225 million equivalent).
90.       ERRs for new and improved fishponds range between 23% and >50Z.
Because economic prices for rural labor and some nontraded inputs are lower
than financial values, ERRs are higher than the FRRs. Sensitivity testing
indicates that the ERRs for new and improved fishponds are fairly sensitive to
changes in output prices. A decline in output prices, however, is not expec-
ted to occur.
91.       The project faces no significant technical or management risks.
Chinese fish farmers have had long experience with integrated carp polycul-
turep and aquacuLture practices and technology to be introduced by the project
have been proven elsewhere. Managers, technicians, and farmers in the project
areas have the requisite incentives and basic skills to apply the improved
practices and technology. Moreover, technical service centers established by
the project will train extension staff and fish farmers to ensure optimum
efficiency in pond operation. Some risk may be associated with development in
timely fashion of feed concentrates specific to the requirements of each proj-
ect city. To minimize this risk, the project will provide funding for local
research institutions to carry out feed formulation studies and will establish
feed mills equipped with laboratories for analysis for feed mixes.
92.       The project management structure is already in place at the central,
municipal and county levels with project offices staffed by experienced per-
sonnel from the BAPs and other agencies involved in the project. A system of
fish farms as township enterprises and county- and city-owned FDCs has been
organized in order to put fisheries production and support services on a fully
commercial footing in contrast to past practices. Given the fact that these
enterprises have strong backing from local governments including initial
financial and technical support as well as support for operational indepen-
dence, no problems are expected in project implementation and, therefore, in
achievement of projected levels of production.



- 27 -
PART V - RECOMHENDATION
93.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by: M.A. Qureshi
April 15, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-28-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
CHINA. PEOPLES IUP. OP - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHCET
CHINA. PEOPLE'S RcP. OF              *PIMUNCI C PS (WEHIHTED AVIRACGE) IA
mOmT                     (HOST  =CgNT CTIltATE) /b
UCENT              LOW INCOII            MIDDLE INCOME
196ioo     197041b  hShIIATELk       ASIA A PACIFIC         ASIA A PACIFIC
ASA (TwaSAw SQ. nO
TOTAL                             9561.0      9561.0      9561.0
AGRICULTURAL                      3257.6      3882.0      3665.9
COP MM CAPITA (flS)                     ..          . -   300.0                 278.3                    1011.1
gmC COISulmwlm PIIR CAPTTA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)      202.0       259.0       &41.9             265.7                     566.6
omuTIOoN A-D VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION.MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 651000.0   815160.0  1019102.n
URDAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)       16.4 /c      ..         21.0              22.3                      35.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAT 200 (KILL)                          1242.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                            1571.0
POPULATION MOMENTUM                                        1.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       68.1        65.3       106.2              173.6                    386.9
PER SQ. It. AGRE. LAND           199.8       210.0       260.8             353.3                    1591.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 yRS                         38.9        37.6        32.0              36.3                      36.2
15-64 YRS                         56.2        57.2        63.1              59.4                      57.7
65 AND AOVE                        4.7         5.0         5.0               4.3                       3.5
POPULArTON GROWTH RATE (:)
70TAL                              1.1         2.2         1.7               2.0                       2.3
URBAN                              ..          ..          ..                4.1                       4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER HOUS)         39.2 /d    35.7         16.6              27.5                      30.1
CRUDE DEATH LATE (PER mHOUs)        23.5 77d     6.8         7.1              10.2                       9.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.6 7d      2.3         1.0                1.7                      1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)          ..
USERS (2 OF MARRISD WOMEN)         ..          ..         71.0              69.4                      56.5
OD ASD NUTRITION
mNDEx or FooD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        ..        100.0       123.0             116.6                     12^.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)      94.6 /d   101.6        119.8             106.3                     115.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          53.0 7d     56.2        69.7              60.1                      60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        12.5 77     13.3        15.9               14.4                     14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         13.5         8.5         2.0                7.3                      7.2
HALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TEARS)       41.0 /e    60.9        67.1               60.5                      60.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER TNOUS)      165.0 7      69.0       36.0               69.2                      64.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%PoP)
TOTAL                              ..          ..         50.0              44.2                      46.0
URBAN                              ..          ..         85.0              77.2                      57.6
RURAL                              ..          ..         40.0              34.6                      37.1
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TuTAL                              ..          ..          ..                7.8                      50.1
URUIN                              ..          ..          ..               28.8                      52.9
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..                5.5                      44.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          7940.0 If  3690.0 1f  1740.0 /f           3318.0                    7751.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           3830.0      2760.0      1710.0            4690.7                    2464.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1040.0       760.0       440.0             1039.2                   1112.1
URBAN                            210.0         ..        160.0             299.1                     651.6
RURAL                          10140.0         ..       1020.0            6028.2                    2596.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..          ..               52.3                      41.1
n08IS1ic
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..          5.1
URAN                               ..          ..          4.1
RURAL                              ..          ..          5.4
AVERAGE No. OF PERSDNS/ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
PERCENTAGE OF DWELLINGS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



-29 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
CIlA. PLE'  RE. 0i - IOICIL INDICATORB DATA SHEET
CIIAZ, PIOPLES  REP.                    FrENCE  ROUPr MWINTED AVIRAGES) /a
MOST                      (HOST RECINT ETIMATE) lb
z,9oLk      19701k R"CUT                LOW INCDHE            MIDOLE INCOME
IT197UKIATE       ASIA A PACIFIC         AlIA  PAcIrIc
ADJUSTED ZNROLLHENT RATIOS
mrtt.s  TOTAL                     109.0       110.0       110.0               92.6                     100.7
KMAE                     ..          .,        123.0              105.5                     104.4
AL                       .           ..        97.0                79.3                      97.1
UEWDARYI TOTAL                    21.0        23.0        33.0                31.3                     47.8
HMLE                    .-           ..        46.0                40.6                      50.6
EALE                     .           .         25.0                21.9                      44.8
VOCATIONAL (S OF  CONDAY)             ..         ..          2.2                 3.2                      18.4
PUPIL-TEACE  RATIO
P1ZMT                               *.*        33.0       25.0                38.0                      30.4
IOIDARY                             ..         22.0        16.0               17.4                      22.2
m"
PASSNGER CARS/THOUSAND PoP            ..          ..         0.2 'I              0.9                      10.1
RADIO IECIVER/mTOUSA    POP           ..         14.7       210.1              129.8                     172.9
TV  EIM RITOUSAND o                   ..          0.6        35.3               19.8                      58.5
NEWSPAPER C"MA!LY C    L
INE=REST') ciuwAno.
PER TOUSAIMD POPULATION              ..          ..         33.4               25.7                      65.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       ..          ..          ..                 6.0                       3.4
LUABO
TOTAL LAOR FORCE (1T3OU)         321646.0   380555.0   470692.0
FALE (PERCEN)                      38.3        38.0        37.3               33.2                      33.6
AGRCULTUgl (PZRCENT)                ..          ..        68.9                69.6                      52.2
NDUSTRI (PERCENT)                 ..          ..          18.7               15.6                      17.9
PARTICIPATION RAZE (PERCET
TOTAL                              46.8        45.0        46.1               41.9                      38.9
KALE                               55.9        54.5        55.4               53.6                      50.8
F-MA                               37.0        35.0       35.1                29.1                      26.8
ECONOMIC DEMPDENCY RAITIO             0.9         1.0        0.8                 1.0                       1.1
INWIE DISTRIBDTC
PRCENT OF PRIVATE INCME
RECEIVED BY
ICUEZST 5S0o  NOFUSEEOLOS           ..         ..         12.5                 ..
PIOI;ST 20X OF NOUSEHOLDS           ..         ..         39.37j               ..                       48.0
LOWEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..          ..         6.8                 ..                        6.4
LOWEST 401 OP  OUSEOLDS             ..          ..         18.4                ..                       15.5
yM1T TSA  C
ESTINATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY lNODIZ
LML (USS PER CAPITA)
Ulm                                 ..         ..          ..                133.9
RUR                                ..          ..          ..                111.6                     151.9
ESTIMATES RELATIVE POERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PZE CAPITA)
URN                                ..          ..          ..                  ..                       77.9
RURAL                              ..           .           ..                61.7                     164.7
ESTIMATED POP. SELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEML ()
UR                                  .           ..         ..                 43.8                      23.3
RUmAL                               .           ..         ..                 51.7                      37.8
NOT AVAILABLZ
NOT APPLICABLE
IO T E S
ls   The group averagee for eaeb indicator are populatioc-vaighted arithmetic mans. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Utles. othbrvise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 nd 1971; and data for "Aost Recent setimato" between 1981 end 1983.
/c   1964;  /d 1955-65 average;  /a 1955-64 aversga;  /f Senior doctor of western medicine; jM Distribution
of people ranked by households per capita income. 1979 data; /h 1980.
JUN. 1985



- 30 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 7
DOinNlONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                              -    1
Kate Alh_ouh the data am drawn fhrmn aa grlyjudgd the  t authuritative and relhIblek It should ailo be noted tbsn the y nay not be iierunatsuaally
comparahb bcm  or the ink or sumndadlsd deflaitiomn nd cortpt umed by dikrent countre in clctimng the date. The dat aire nonehleh. ueful lo
dacriht ordecbrso mnritude Indiri  trids and chametu  m canln mejor dfintm betn esuntrie.
The rece roups are l the eam coutry group oft subc ountrynd(2)acotry group with mmnewh  high*r mrage min e iha thc co unRty
greuprobf the whbm  eountry (eacptt for "Hgh Income Oil Expotrn" group whee "Middl Income North Africa and MuddkE lat i hsen bCme of stranger
sotio.ealsural aMnitkle  In the Leraenc group data the meumps ar populauon weighted anthmlutcan  or ach indkcator and shown only when meuwity
ofthe oountries In a gpet has dta fortat Indicator. Since Ihe couorag ooe  atnions the lndcatomedepmnds on the eaiadabilipy arda end Is nol uniror.n
cautionmtbiesereled In resting avempuof one indicaore totnoter Theeaverage are only useful ncunpanng thevaleofoneindicatorat tnincenonig
the country and reference groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km)                                               Crdrth Rat (prthad- Numberoflivebirthsintheyear
Treal-Total surfaece are comnprisng land arme and inland waters;    per thousand of mid-year population. 190. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                           Cr  Dette (per taan)  Number of deaths in the year
Agrleur,al-Estimate of agricultural area& usd lemporarily or        per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permranently for crops. patures, market and kitchen gardens or to   Gress Reprdutiese Rar-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fllow. 1960, 1970 and 1982 data,                                will bear in her nornal reproductive period if she experiences
present agcpecific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS>-GNP per capita estimates at current           in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices cakulated by same conversion method as World               Y PMVSir Acceptors Aaia (thousansa    Annual nusus
Bank Atlas (I 981143 basis); 1983 data.                             her of acceptors of binh-conirol devices under auspices olnational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                      family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignitc.         PasO, flthanl-Users (percr  o      ef raried awne)  The percen
petroleum, natural gs and hydro-. nuclear and geotherma  dee-       tape of married women of child-bearing age who a tc practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whosc husbands are practicing any form of contr.tceptton Woirien
1982 data.                                                          of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although lor
some countries contraceptivc usage is meaSured lot uthrs ige
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                     groups.
Total P1pBl3Mmuw MM-Yes (theusaadu)-As orJuly i; 1960. 1970.        FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1913 data.
UIndx oRfFood Pnr       hr Capita iIS 9-71- 100i   Indct of per
fJrhaa PeopLatin (percent' of total)-- Ratio of urban to total     capita annual production of all food cornmoditics Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agrisulur. Food commodities
abifity of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.         include primary commodities e g. sugarcane instedd .r suoprl
Popdadu hrcrieos                                                    which are edible and contain nutrecnts (e.g coffee And ter arc
Poplation in yr 20(X)-The projection of population for 20.          excluded): they comprise cereals. roos crops. pubes, til seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on      vegetables, fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is hased
international migration in the base year 1980. these parrneters     on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized   1982 dtta.
assumnptions until the population became stationary.                Per Capi Sqy of Calorie        rcnt ofrrqdea mnuj  (oomput-
S:ationrypopubarion-ls one in which age- and sex-specifc mor-       odfrorncaloriecquivalentof nct food suppliesavailabletn country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day Avatlable supplies Lonspruse domesic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imnports less expons. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exdludeanimal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death ratc. the age structure is also     food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements wcre
constant. and the growth ra:e is zero The stationary population     estimated by FAO based on physiological needs fur normal activui 
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental tempe: ture. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allo.wing I n percent for
rate to replacement level.                                          waste at household level: 1961. 197U1 and 192N  datt
Population Momnrntsn-Is the tendency for population growth to       Per Caira Supply of horein (rmns per day)  ir nlicit consent of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day Net supr vol Ilo-d i, delined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements fbr all countries est% hhbhed h) t SID-%
unity. The monentum ofa population in the year r is measured as     provide for minimum allowances of60 grams. r total piPUUiCI PC0
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 granis olanimal and pulsc protcin .. iAhich Ill granin
the year :. given the assumption that fertility refnains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standard. are lowcr Ihan ihose .t
ment level from year : onward. 1985 data.                           75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal proten as an
Populatio Densay                                                    average for the world. proposed h) FAG tn ihe Third Wolid 1 ..a!
Per sq.kmu.-Mid-year population per square kilometer t100 hec-      Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area 1960. 1970. and 1983 data                      Per CapiaheinS Spply rone AA sa rdalse- Protein uppl%
Per sq.km. agrindtral /anr-Computed as above for agricultural       offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day. 19*65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                               1970 and 1977 data.
Abpahniier Age Strwctare (percent)- Children tO-14 years). work-    CkiWd (eseI-4  Der                     J     iherl ul de.atin' .ii
ing age(15-64 years).and retired (65 yearsand over)as percentdge    children aged 1-4 years pcr thousand children in the  ame age
or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  group in a given year For mosL developing cotintrie' d.i.u lden' cd
Pbposion Growth Rate (perceaer)--oal-Annual growth rates of         from lirc tdbles: 1960.1970 and 19113 data
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 19703.          HEALT'H
Popauion Growth Rae (percent)-mrhan- Annual growth rates            Life Erperaery at Birth  resj)  Number of vear a ne bonn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.         infant would lue if prevailing pattems of monalito tir all pevplr



- 31 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 7
at the time of of its birth were to atay the ame throughout its lire.  Apl-tewer tatio - primary, and senndary-Total students en-
1960,1970 and 1983 data.                                        rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
wae Mwtert Rate (per th.mid)-Number of infants who die          teachers in the cormsponding levels.
before reachng one yer of age per thousand live births in a given
year 1960.1970 and 1933 data                                    CONSUMPTION
Am  t S;fer Wair (percent of dOF        U40t.          Mad       aseagr Ce-s (per tdemad paoplieion)- -Passengei cars cgin
ran -Nnmber of people (total urban, and rual) with reunable     pise motor cars seating kss than eight persons. exclude,.uanbul-
am   to safe water supply (includes treated surac water or      ances, hearse and military vehicks.
untreated but uncontamninated water suh as that from protected  Ratio ReceIvers (per theuummdppiaplauims-AlII types of recovers
borehoi  supinp ad u an        wl)m perucntage of thePir reIpee-  for radio broadcast to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or tndpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that ouse. In rura aras    not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing
reasonable aess would imply that the houswife or rnembers of the  tVRe co (perahbe mdpcepmo  M - TVt receiwm forbroAd lNit
housdhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  to general public per thousnd population; excudes unhier nsed TV
in fetching the fanaily's water needs.t  ec!pbi  e huidpouain  xldsulcsdT
Aa: fetching Err nDy's wt    r needs.r                          receivers in countries and in years when registration of IV sets was
Amce  to E,erea Diupani (perceut of peplatdon)-tetral, urban'   in effect.
ad rural-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Nfespa   Cbrtat   (pr thousand poultion) Slhows (he avei -
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age irculation of 'dail) general interest newspaper.' dehned as a
without treatment, of htanan excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primuarily to recording general news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week
Pulti e per  hysidon-N'pulation divided by number of prac-      Cluem. Aiural AtaeudawCe per Caper  Year- Bied on the
tising physicians qualified from* a medical school at university level,  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissrins to
Populari  per Nwnqr Perso--Population divided by number or      drive-in cinemnas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.   LABOR FORCE
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.LBR  OC
epurua nesa osing aura4 r                  rus-     opulation   Total Labor Force (ahsnnrdfl-Economically active persons. in-
(total, urban and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
(totl. rba. an  rual)divded  y teirresectic nmbe of students. elc. covering population of all ages. Definition% in
hospital beds available in public and private, gneral and spcialired  various countries are not comtparble. 1960. 1970 and 19b3 data.
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are estabishments
pennanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femakl (rperun---lemak labor force as perLentage or total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,    force
however, indude health and medical centers not pernanently staffed  Apicurke iperreutr- -Lahor force in inamtog. forrt,s h.ntinti
by a physician (but by a nedical assistant, nurse, midwife, etc.  and fishing as percentage of total labor fore 1960. 1970 and IQNtj
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                          htmstry (perret)--Lahor force in mlining. constriU1Lci.. .m.iiie.-
Adimssioan per Hospat  hi-Total number of admissions to or      facturing and electricity, water and gas as picrcent agc ol tta1l lihair
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force: 1960. 1970 and 19S0 data.
Pmrwicitpm, Rote (percent)j--e.r   nik auif, sd lwwk-articipition
HOUSING                                                         or activity rates are computed as total. male. and female la;bor I utie
Avre Ste of Houeho  (peros per household)-ttal. arban,          as percentages of total, male and female populauts of alt agem
andrral-n A householdconsistsofagroupof individuals who share   respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are ba-ed on ILO's
living quarters and their main neals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population and
may not be included in the household for statistical purpose.   long time trend. A few estimates are from niational sourx'
AveirW   Number of Person per Roue-rotal. arban. and rua-       Eeonmic Dependeacr Riod -Ratio of population under i'. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural      65 and over, to the working agc population (thox ag-l 15-o4;
occupied conventional dwellings respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DIS'rRIBUTION
Peentaep  of D Es wit Etc.etridry-4ota1. u.rbn, ad rurat        PerceNtage of Total Dispoable eram- (bulk in cash and kind)
Conventionaldwellingswith electricity in livingquartersas percen-  Accruing to percentile gniups of househilds ranked hv trotal hous-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellinp respectively,          hold inconm.
EDUICATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROtUPS
Adjuted E,relkitwt Ratios                                       The following estimates arc very appro umate measures oi pn eart>
Primary school - total, male and femae --Gross total, male and  levels, and should be interpreted *ith considerable caution
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimated Absolte Pofbvty Income Letel (t'SS per captai- - urban
respective pnsmary school-age populations. While many countris  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below whkh a minimal nutritionally adequate dic plus essenial
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordabk
are reflcted in the ratios given. For sone countries with universal  Estimated Reative Poverty Income Leretl ISS per eapuc--urhan
education, gross enrolnient may exceed 100 percnt since some    and ral -Rural relative poverty icome lvcel is n-ne third ot
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the countr). Urhan kidl i
age.                                                            derived from the rural lc el wilh adjustment for higher c.'. - 1-
Seonary school - total mde and trvad., -Computed as above:    living in urban areas
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-    Eimwmed Populaion Below Absobirue Poverr Incone Level Vper-
mary instruction: provides general. vocafional, or teacher traineng  cern)-erbat  d ruraL- PL2rcent of popidtition (urhan and :ural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence courses are generally exduded
Voarauiml  Enranllnr  (percent of.rrwndukarrs -Vocational iirititu-       (oniparativc Anh 's ,nd IM )iia tission
iions iclude technicaL industrial, or other programs which operate      Ectonomic Analysis and Projectons Departmen
independently or as departments of secondary institutions                               J une 19115



- 32 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 7
Population    3  1,019 milllon (oid-1983)
CNP per capital $300 (1983)
CHTNA - ECONOKIC ENDICAToIS
Amount - 1964                                Annual trowth rare-  (2)
(million MS at                   Actual                                          Projecred
Indicator                     current pricIM)/b 1980   19ul   1962   1963   1984/a   1985          1906      1987      1968     199      1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS /a
Grses dom_ttc product            261,260        6.6    4.9    7.5    9.6   14.0        10.4       6.8       6.8        6.6     6.6       6.G
Agriculture                    100,430       -1.7    6.4   11.2    9.0   13.9         4.0       6.9       *.9       4.9      4.9       4.9
tuduatty                       123,010       12.3    2.3    7.3   11.4   16.6        14.0       7.7      7.7        7.7      7.7       7.7
Servica                         55J.6Z0       8.2    8.9    3.3    6.5    7.7        10.0       7.9      7.9        7.9      7.9       7.9
Conminption                      198.190        0.1    5.2    5.9    9.0   12.5        12.5       8.9       7.4        7.4     7.6       7.1
Crose Investment                  83,100        1.3   -1.8   10.9   15.2   20.7        11.0       2.3       4.8        4.8     5.1       5.7
Exports of GNFS /a                26,720       17.8   16.7    0.6    9.5   13.0         3.0       5.9       8.S        6.6     8.5       8.6
Imports of CGFS 7W                26.750       16.1   -6.7   -5.7   28.1   25.9        63.1       0.0       5.8        5.9     6.0       6.2
Groes national savings            85,870       -0.2    3.6   17.0   12.0   17.0         5.0       2.4       5.1        5.1     5.6       6.Z
PRICES
GDP deflator (1980 - 100)                     100.0  101.8  101.7  102.9  107.6    113.1    111.7    124.7    131.0    137.5    144.4
Cxchange rats (Yuan/USS)                       1.50   1.70   1.89   1.98   2.32        2.84      2.84      2.84      2.84     2.84      2.84
9hare of GOP at market prtce. (2)                    Average annual Increase (2)
(cat curr net  rice)                           (ee eonetanC 196I price.)
'96,0  1970   1975  o190         1985   1990    1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  19e0-84  1986-L   9  19-9
Gross dou_ tic product /a        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0            6.1       5.2      6.6       9.0       7.3       6.6
Agriculture                     23.0   35.0   32.8   32.0   34.2   31.3            6.7       3.4      3.3      10.1       5.0      4.8
Induscry                        46.0   41.0   45.8   48.0   47.9   4.9            7.8      7.5       9.9       9.4       8.6      7.4
Services                        29.0   24.0   21.4   20.0   17.9   18.9            3.4      4.5       5.4       6.6       5.2      7.5
ConaumpcLon                       62.4   70.8   69.1   71.3   66.7   69.3            6.1       4.7      h.4       8.1       8.4       6.8
Gross investmant                  37.1   29.2   31.1   30.0   34.4   30.9            9.5       6.9      9.7      11.3       5.1       6.1
Exports of CNPS                    4.8    2.8    5.3    7.1    7.7    8.5           -1.5      10.8       5.7     12.3       6.0       7.7
Imports of CNIPS                   5.0    2.7    5.5    8.4    8.8    8.6            1.2      13.9     13.0      12.2       8.4       7.4
Gross national savings            37.7   29.2   30.9   28.9   33.6   30.7            q.1       6.7       7.2     14.0       '.8       4.2
As X of GOP
1957            1970            1080            1983             1984
PITULIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                      28.7             29.6            30.6            27.8             26.7
Carrent expenditures                                   15.1            15.7            21.1            21.6             20.1
Surplus (+) or deficit C-)                           +13.6            43.9             +7.5            +6.2             +6.6
Capital expenditure                                    13.7            13.3            11.0             7.8              8.2
Forei4n financing                                      0.7              n.a.            0.5             0.2              0.3
1960-70      1970-75      1975-80      1980-"4      1984-89      1989-94
OTRER TNDOCATORS
GNP growth rate (2)                                   6.1          5.1           6.G           9.2        7.2           6.6
GNP per capita growth rate (2)                         3.5         2.9           5.2           7.9        6.1           5.5
Energy consumption growth rate (2)                   -0.3          9.2           5.8           4.1        5.3           4.8
ICO                                                  3.3          4.7          5.1           3.8         4.0          '.6
Karginal maving. rate                                 0.4          0.4           0.3          0.3         0.2           0.3
Icport elaaticity                                     0.2          2.7          2.0            1.4        1.1           1.2
/a  Data for 1981 and 1982 are from different sources; data for 1982 exclude re-exports.
East Asea and Pacific Regional Office
February 7. 1985



33 -                                                     ANNEX I
Population    :  1,019 nillion (mid-1983)                                                                           Page  6 of  7
GO? per capita:  $300 (1983)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount - 1984                 Annual grovth rates (2) (at constanc prices)
(million US$ at                           Actual                          Projected
current prices)         1980      1981      1982     1953     1984      1985      1990
EXTERNAL TRADE /a
Nerchandlse exports                        25,020              14.8      17.3       5.5     10.1      10.4      2.8       8.7
Pri_mry                                  11,410               1.5     -1.4       3.9      14.6      9.6       3.3      6.8
Manufactures                             13,610              32.2      36.2      6.6       7.0      11.1      2.4      10.4
Marchandlme importe                        26,740               6.8       7.2      0.2      29.7     22.3      47.1       6.2
Food                                      2,330               9.1      68.3     42.9    -30.9    -24.9       14.4       7.1
Petroleu                                    130              52.6    -65.5    130.0    -43.5       30.8       0.0      35.5
Machinery and equlpment                   8,420              16.4      19.0    -41.7      34.7     82.3      58.2       5.1
Others                                   15,860               0.9    -13.5       7.1      71.7      16.8     19.9       6.3
PRICES
Export price Index (1980-100)                                 100.0    102.7      98.7      88.8     90.5      88.0    126.0
lmport price index (1980-100)                                 100.0    104.5      89.2      76.7     78.4      77.3    112.0
lor_ of trade index (J980-100)                                100.0      98.3    110.7    115.8    115.4    113.8    112.5
Composition of merchandise trade (2)                    Average annual increaae (2)
t-t current price)                                 (car conecant prices)
1978        1981         1984        1990      1980-84            1984-89              1989-94
Exports                          100.0      10.0         100.0       100.0       10.8                7.9                  7.6
Primary                         53.4        66.6         45.6       42.1         6.7                6.4                  6.1
Manufactures                    46.6        53.4         54.4        57.9        15.2               9.4                  8.2
Imports                          100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0       14.9                8.5                  7.5
Food                            12.8        17.4          8.7         9.7       13.9                8.9                  8.5
Petroleum                        0.5         0.4          0.5        0.9        13.0               17.2                 16.1
Machinery and equipment         18.9        29.2         31.5        33.3       23.6                12.0                 6.8
Others                         67.9         53.0         59.3       56.1        20.5                6.7                  7.5
Share of trade with         Share oE trade with          Share of trade with
industrial                  developing                  the USSR and
countries (2)               countries (Z)             Eascern Europe (2)
1977     190      L983     1977      1980     1983      1977     1980      1983
DIRZCrION OF TRADE
Exports                                     36.4      44.7     42.1      46.8     48.7      53.2     16.8       6.6      4.7
Imports                                     63.1      73.6     69.0      20.7     19.7      24.5     16.2       6.7      6.5
/a  Based on custom. statistics.  Exporcs, f.o.b., imports, c.l.f.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
November 22, 1985



ANNEX I
34                     ~                    Page 7 of 7
Population    :1.019 milion (mid-1983)
CNP per capita:  S300 (1983)
CHINA - bALANCE OF PAYNZNES. EERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(ml liona of USS $t current pric-s)
Actual                                    Frojected
Indlcator                                      1978    1979    1950    1961         1982       1983       1984        l9oS      1990
BALANCE OF FATMhNTS
Exports of goods and nonfactor sarvila.  10.370  14,983  20,324  24,423    23,637    23, 86    26,716              26,840   58.590
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b. /a           9.607  13.658  18,492  22.027    21,1Z5    20,707    23,905           23,900   52,130
Imports of goods and nonfactor *ervlce  11,666  17,759  24.058  23,446    18.900    tO,711    26.748              38.290   63.180
Of which:  Mhrchandise f.o.b. /a          10.745  16,Z12  22.049  21,047    16.876    18.717    23,890           35,150   56.950
Not factor Income from abroad                   -8      -77    -117    -200         452      1.253      1.620       1.140      -850
Net tranefere                                  597      656      ;A0     464        530        436        304         300       300
Current account balance                       -709  -2.197  -3,211   1,241        5.719      4,164      1.892    -10,010   -5,140
Private direct lnvestm-nt (net)                  -        -       57      265       430        636      1.100       1,650    1.950
Official grant aid (not)                          -       -       21      156       _44         75        137         140       140
HLT loans (net)                                549   3.815   1.069        310       301       _927       -145           0    4.450
Diebureevents                                549   3.895   1.670   1.659        2.481      i.600        718         950    6.390
AmortiZation                                   -       80     601   1.348       2.180        673        863         950    1,940
Other capital /b                              -628  -1,021   2,455        -47      -I1S    -1,672    -2.889         2.330         -
Change ln reserves
C"-" indicating increase)                    786    -597    -391  -1,925    -6.291    -4.130            -95       5.890   -1,00
Internattonal reserves                       6,677   7,Z7&   7.665   9.590    15.881    20#011    20.106           14,220   23.500
Of which:  Gold /c                         5.120   5.120   5,120   5,120        5,120      5,120      5.120       5.120    5.170
Deeervem as sonth. of Imports                  6.2      4.5      3.5     4.8       10.1       11.7        9.1         4.5       4.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /d
Gross dLsburaement                              ..       ..       ..       ..
OffiCial gcrant                               ..       ..       ..      ..         ..
Concastional loans                            ..       ..       ..      ..
DAC                                         ..       ..       ..      ..
Other                                       ..       ..       ..      ..
Nonconces-tonal loans                                      ..        ..        ..        ..
Official export credits                     ..       ..      ..       ..
IBRD                                        ..           ..       ..
Other nultillteral                          ..       ..      ..       ..
Private                                     ..       ..      ..       ..
External debt
Debt outstanding and dishursed               549   *.364   5.433   5.261        5,562      6.397      6.340
Official                                    ..       ..      ..       ..
Private                                     ..       ..       ..      ..
Undlsbursed debt                              ..       ..       ..
Debt service
Total service payment.                         ,       ..       ..      ..
Interest                                    ..       ..      ..       ..
Payments as Z of exports                     0.4      2.7     6.3      9.0       11.4        4.9        5.0
Average lnterest rate of new Loans (1)           -        -        -        -         -          -          -
Average maturity of new loans (years)            -        -        -        -         -          -          -
Is  Data for 1978-8l are not comparable with those of 1982-85 because of a difference In thelr sources.  The latter exclude
re-exports.
/b  Includes net use of IMF credit and net flow of short-term capital.
7 Valued at USS1602/troy ounce.
Td Exclude. short-term loans (one year or less).
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
November 22, 1985



- 35-                                               41 1X r1I
STATUS OP BAN1 GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC o0  CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREMDITS
(as of March 31, 1986)
Loan or                                                                                   USS million
Credit                                                                           Amount (ls. cancellations)
Number    Year  Borrower                      Purpose                            Bank      IDA    Undisbursed/a
2021/1167    1981  People's Republic of China  University Development                10o.n    100.0        10.5
1261    1982  People's Republic of China  North Chins Plain Agriculture           -      60.0        15.2
2207    1982  People's Republic of China  Three Po ts                           69.0        -        21.9
1297    1932  People's Republic of China  Agric. Education & Research             -      75.4        17.9
2226/1313    1982  People's Republic of China  Industrial Credit                     40.6      30.0        26.5
2231    1983  People's Republic of China  Daqing Petroleum                     162.4        -        67.8
2252    1983  People's Republic of China  Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum           1no.8        -        66.2
2261/1347    1983  People's Republic of China  Neilongjiang Land Reclamation          75.3     45.0        18.4
1411    1983  People's Republic of China  Polytechnic/TV University               -      85.0        45.1
1412    1983  People's Republic of China  Technical Cooperation                   -       10.0        4.7
1417    1984  People's Republic of China  Rubber Development                      -      100.0       54.8
2382    1984  People's Republic of China  Lubuge Hydroelectric                 145.4        -       114.1
2394    1984  People's Republic of China  Railway                              220.0        -       117.0
1462    1984  People's Republic of China  Rural Credit                            -       50.0       33.1
1472    1984  People's Republic of China  Rural Health A Medical Educ.            -      85.0        55.0
2426    1984  People's Republic of China  KCramsy Petroleum                     99.5        -        77.7
2434/1491    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Industrial Credit              1n5.0     7n.0       133.1
2444/1500    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Educaeton         45.3      23.5        35.7
1516    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research            -       25.0       15.4
1551    1985  People's Republic of China  Second University Development           -      145.0      159.7
2493    1985  People's Republic of China  Second Poter                         117.0        -       111.1
2501    1985  People's Republic of China  Changeun (Luan) Coal Mining          126.0        -       123.4
1557    1985  People's Republic of China  Seeds                                   -      40.0        43.0
1578    1985  People's Republic of China  Rural Water Supply                      -      80.0        90.2
2539/1594    1985  'eople's Republic of China  Highway                               42.6      30.0       65.R
2540    1985  People's Republic of China  Second Railway                       235.0        -       235.0
2541    1985  People's Republic of China  Pertilizer Rehabilitation and         97.0        -        96.5
Energy Saving
1605    1985  People's Itepublic of China  Forestry Development                   -      47.3        49.3
2579/1606    1985  People's Republic of China  Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development  17.0         75.0       98.5
25R0    1q85  People's Republic of China  Weiyuan Ces rield Technical           25.0        -        25.0
Assistance
1642/b  1986  People's Republic of China  Second Rural Credit                     -      90.0        9n.0
2659/l6637b  1986  People's Republic of China  Third Industrial Credit               75.0      25.0       100.0
16647;  1986  People's Republic of China  Second Technical Cooperation            -       20.0       20.0
16717I  1986  People's Republic of Chine  Provincial Universities                 -      120.0      120.0
Total                                                                             1.847.9  1.141.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                     1,847.9  1,431.2
Total Undisbursed                                                                  1.317.81  n19.8    2.357.6
S. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1986)
Amount in US$ sillion
Year     blir                                       TMpe of business               Loan      Equity     Total
1985    Cuangzhou and Peugeot Automobile Co.        Automobile                       15.n       2.0       l7.n
Total Gross Commitments                                                               15.0      2.0        17.0
Lens cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                                                   -        -           -
Total Commitments now held by IFC                                                     15.0      2.0        17.0
Total llndisbursed                                                                    15.0      2.0        17.0
/s  Aa credits are denominated in STIRs (since IDA Replenishbent VTI)  undisbursed SDP credit balances are con-
verted to dollars at the current exchange rate between the dollar and the SDR. In some cases. therefore,
the undisbursed balance indicates a dollar amount greater than the original principal credit amount
expressed in dollars.
/b  Not yet effective.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A Is described in a separste report on all Rank/ITA financial
projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.



- 36 -
ANUEX III
Page 1
CHINUk
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:          12 onths
(b)  Project prepared by:                    Kinistry of Agriculture,
Animal Husbandry and
Fisheries
Cc) First presentation to IDA and
first mission:                          May 1984
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:         September 1985
(e)  Completion of negotiations:             March 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          August 1986
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III. Special Conditions
1.   Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) state Council approval of the Development Credit Agreement.
(b)  Conclusion of OnLendiog and Project Implementation Agreements
between the Covernment and each of the project cities, except
Shanghai, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 7,).
(c) Delivery of corporate charters of the municipal FDCs (ezcept
Shanghai) to IDA (para. 80).
2.   Other Conditions
(a) The training component to be carried out in accordance with a
program acceptable to IDA (para. 62).
(b) Conclusion of Onlending and Project Implementation Agreement between
the Government and Shanghai, and provision of documentary evidence
and a legal opinion with respect to the legal status of Shanghai



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Aquacultuse General Fart, satisfactory to IP.A, as conditions of
disbursement for the Shanghai componentof tne project (para. 75).
(c) FDCs to be operated in accordance with guidelines acceptable to IDA
(para. 80).
(d) The provinces of Sichuan, Heilongjiang and Jiangxi to provide in
timely fashion their required contributions (para., 81).
Ce)  Recovery of the  iDA portion of total funding at the following rates
of interest: Ci) for equipment and materials for the trade centers
and technical service centers, at fized interest rate of 4.5Z p.a.;
and Cii) for all other items, at rates acceptable to IDA (para. 82).



GN I12 N               
= ZZ                                                                                                                                                          PA  CNG O CI
i4.~~~~~~~~~4



