Doacnt of
The World Bank
FOR o CIa USE ONL
Rspit4o  12311
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FRESHWATER FISIERIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1689-CfA)
SEPTEMBER 14, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12311
Type: PCR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Ths doument has a restdcted distibetion and tay be uad by recpiens only in te perormance of
dteir oficil dstis Its contents may not othews be disclosed witout World Bank autration.



CURRlENCY EQUIVALENT
Cunency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Rate of Exchange:   Appraisal   $1.00   =  Y 3.00
1986        $1.00       Y 3.20
1987188     $1.00   =  Y 3.70
1989/90     $1.00       Y 4.70
1991        $1.00   =  Y 5.20
1992        $1.00   =  Y 5.45
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             3.28 feet (ft)
1 kldometer (km)    =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)      =  15 mu
I ton (t)           =  1,000kg
- 2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)         2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRON!'MS USED
ABC  -    Agricultural Bank of China
BAP  -    Bureau of Aquatic Products
FDC  -    Fisheries Development Corporation
FPO   -    Fisheries Project Office
MOA  -    Ministry of Agriculture
MPO  -    Municipal Project Office
PCR  -    Project Completion Report
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
WaSton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
September 14, M3
Subect:     Projoct Completion Report on China
EMb= E:iht &ojxt Lit 1
Attached i the Project Completion Repor on China - Freshwater Fiheries Project
pepe by the East Asia and PaciSc Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Boower. Ibe
repot  prwvides well documented evidence that al physical tare   were achieved and that the
capacty of inple   g agencies and local orgnztions to develop and run freshwater fiseies has
been               Mhe project outcome Isg    satisatory, intutional developmet is
sbstana, and   ab it b   y.
A stg conumiment from the Bower and all implemeating acie  t
ailabit of c      e     data at Idetcation and prepartion stage, a reativel simple and wel
apprsed set of t       componens, and good management by the Borower and the Bank explain
tbis success While fish prces have gone down because of ineed produtin, efforts to desi
to higher value species and to lowe prwuction costs are under way.
Ihe PCR ib satifatoty and no audit is plned at this tme.
Attachmet
ThI documet s retiW dirbuton and may b used by redphnte on, w In the poance of 
tha  "ffil dtss content may not othwise be dslosed wit Wo  W Btnk 



KOa OFFICIAL IN ONLY
PROJECT COqM TION REPORT
CHINA
3 ESHVATER ISHERIES PROJECT
(CREDiT 1E8cH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Proboe       .................. .........,.................... ...                    i
Evaduation Summay  ...................................
PART I: PROJECT REVEW FROM BANK'SPERSPECV                              .             1
1.     PrjecM        tit   ..................                                     1
2.      Bacgond...................                                                1
3.      ProjecaObjecd iv e anD escrip.... ................                        2
4.      Project Dei  and Orpniation ........................ .                    3
Project Imlmnain...........................                               6
7.      Bak Prformance ............................. .                           1S
8.      Bonower Perforiance ......... .   ............................ .         16
9.      PojectReioshs. . ..            0 . ........ ... . .  ...   .. .* . . . ...  16
10.      Consulting services ....................................... .            16
11.      Project Documentation and Data ......   ...................  .           16
12.      LessnsLeanwd ....... *............. 6 ..........                         16
PART IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWPESRSPECVE ...   18
PART m: STATISTICALINFORMATION   ....................                               27
1.      Related Bank Loans and Crets  .....................                      27
2.      ProaecTimetable ..............................                           27
3.      Credit Disbursements ........................... .                       28
4.      Project                 ..........................  .                    28
S.      Project Costs andFinaig.                                 ....... .       29
6.      ProjectResults ................................                          30
7.      StatusofCovenats .............................                           31
8.      Use of BankResources ................... ........                        32
T Tha doument ha a   _ute dibuioan my be =d by s            ts  on   to peufonnan
of d.i ofial dutife Its contnts my not o wi be dicod    ou WoNdBak atthoritln.



$8g   ::
g ..~~~ .. 
54 W > S* * 
a.5s~~~ 0 X   *
[t*  *           *  *    *    *      * 0...... 
^    *   .   .   .   .    . *. 0.  
*    *   *   *   .    *           *   * 0 
*       *   * 0   0         *    *   ^ U 
*    *   *   *   *   .   *    *   .              0
0**** 0                                  



PROJECT COMMLETION REPORT
CINA
FRESHWATER FISERIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1689-CHA)
PREFACE
Thi is the Project Completion Repo  (PCR) for the Frhwater Fsheries
Project in China, fbr which Credit 1689I-CHA in the amount of SDR 52.0 milLon was
approed on May 6, 1986. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1992, one year beind
schdule. It was fuly disbursed and the last disbursement was on Augt 7, 1992.
The PCR was jointy prepared by the Agriculture Opeatns Division of the
China and Mong     Department, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Pfce,
Evaluation Summary, ParU I and M), and the Borrower (Part )D.
Prepaation of this PCR was sted during the Bank's fin  supervision
mission of the project in October 1992 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appial
Report, the Credi, Special Fund, and Project Agreements; upiion rport,
corrp     e  between the Bank and the Bonower; and intenal Dank memoranda



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1689-CHA)
EVALUATION SUIRMMY
Objectives
1.     The pincipal objecdve of the project was to asst tie Govenment in the
development of freshwater fish cture In the vidnity of eight mWor urban centers by
improving existing ponds and using land unsuitable for crops for new pond construcin;
providing teciques and equipment for pond manaent, and stengthening the support
acilities for production and marketing of fish. The project was to include establishment
of 11,100 ha of new ponds and improvement of 6,100 ha of existing ponds, constrcon
and equipping of support facilities, prvision of w onstruction equipment and vehicles, and
taining and technical assisace.  The eight project cities were Beijing, Chengdu,
Chongqing, Hangzhou, Harbin, Nanchg, Shaunghai and Shenyang.
Ipeention Experience
2.     The Project was implemented between 1986 and 1992, and the original closing
date of June 30, 1991 was extended by one year to June 30, 1992, mainly for the purpose
of utilizing more of the t ic  assistance component. While the total ptject area was
virhuy unchanged between appraisal and compledon, the number of conmplted fish farms
was more than the proposed number at appraisal by over 40 peret. The changes made
in response to changing or adverse circumstances no doubt yielded better project results
in the end, but these inevitably caused some delay during implementation and an increase
in the amount and cost of inucturl facilities-roads, power supply lines, wells,
pumps and housing for farm management-and man  ent esponsibility for the project
staff.
3.     Two aspects of the pond design and layout were subjects of discussion throughout
implementation-separate water suly and drainage systems and Slope protecdon. While
separate water supply and drainage arngements offer complete flexibility and
independence to individual operators, onsiderations of cost, limnit  on available land,
high production levels achievable using combinadon supply/drainage canals and present
management techniques lead to the conclusion that a separate system is a desirable feature,
rather than a necessty, in the present production scheme. However, the single



- iv -
supply/dainge system may be the limitng fo  iin fuhcr  chnolog   admces
towards monocultu  or Intensive cultvain of high valued speces.
4.     Embment ope instability presents a serious problem at sotne ses, manly
In Sh   and to some etet in Nartchang and Ragzhou. A combinaio of fable soils
and wind-generted wave acton has resulted in continual erosion of pond enbarkments.
In Shanghli, povision of slope prtection for ponds was a featur of reconstrcton sites
and may become a necessity for new sites in the future. While documented conclusive
evidence i sparse, lmited experiments in India suggest ta planti  vetiver on
embankmets may be an economically attractve alteative to permaent protectiw cover
in suitable climates.
Prqjet Results
5.     The objectives of the project were met in that the freshwater fish culture was
developed in the eight cities; the area under intensive fish culivation has been expanded,
land unsuitable for crops has been converted into ponds. and technology and equpment for
pond management have been provided. The Government's objective was mainly to
increase the supply of fish in the urban markets, and this has been achieved. An
underlying objective was to set the stage for furte development of freshwater fisheries
by introducing technology associated with more advanced fish culture, i.e. ardficial feeds
and water quality controls. This also has been achieved in the prqject areas as evidenced
by the initial steps already taken to introduce higher valued species into the stocing
stucture.
6.     With increasing supplies of fish, prices have delined by as much as 35 percent
in some cities. The impact of lower prices has been minimized by changing the structure
of production, but increasingly, firms and farmers will have to switch to production of
higher valued species in order to sustain profitable opaions. This trend in development
has been observed in other Asian countties, and is likely to occur in the project areas.
7.     Recalcuae FRRs ranged from 11 percent to 26 percent for new ponds and from
11 percent to 55 percent for improved ponds. Aggregated, FRRs were 20 percent for new
ponds and 32 percent for improved ponds, compared to- SAR estimates of 17 percent and
28 percent, respecdvely. Es  for new ponds ranged between 12 percent and 31 percent
and, for improved ponds, between 12 and >100 percent. Aggregated, ERRs were
25 percent and 45 percent for new and improved ponds, recidvely.
Project 
8.     The project is likely to maintain an acceptable level of net benefits through its
economic life. All project ponds were reported to be in full production in 1992 and
exected to reach fiul developmeist yields. For the ponds to remain in opating condition,
regular maintenance and occasional renewal works will be necessary. Another issue of
sustainability relates to site locations. At the time of appraisal, sites had been Selected
within the administrative boundaries of the micipitiessome even within districts of



the city proper. With the pac of conomic      ie n Ch at             in th
coata ctie, more finanialy amtti avities may repac fish faring on lands cos
to the,city.
FIndE *9 and LeMo  Learned
9.     The project is regarded as highly successfid, boti by tSe borower and the BanL
The main rea   for this are simple project design, logistca conven , song sense
of ownersip and commitment of the implementang agencies, high degre of spport by
local govemment and cooperation between the various cities.
10.    For further development of the frehwater fishees sector, the itroduction of
new and higher-valued species must be evaluated; studies and field resrch shxuld be
undertaken on a regional basis to develop feed formulatons, based on the introduction of
least-cost formulation (LCF) and substitution of fish meal by other protein ingredients; the
mating chain should be improved and modemized in line with the economic reforms
emphasizing the role of the private sector and entrpreneurial initiative; and limited trials
should be initated on the practicality of substituting vetiver grass for permanent
eimbankcment protection.



PROJECT CONMPLTION REPORT
CHINA
FRESHWAT  FISHES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1689CHA)
PART L PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PSPECT1E
1.   Proect Identy
Name              Freshwater Fisheries Project
Credit No.  :     1689-CHA
RVP Unit   :    East Asia and Pacific Region
Country           China
Sector            Agriculture
Subsector   :    Fisheries
2.   Background
2.1         When the project was approved in 1986, 34 Bank-group projects had been
approved in China, of which eleven had been in the agriculture sector. Agricultural
leding was geared to focus on developing institutions to provide services to individual
famers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace and pattern of agricultural
development. Within a few years of the oft-documented 1978 economic reforms, it had
become apparent, that while demand for agricultural products would increase steadily in
response to increasing per capita income and moderate popWulation growth, a substantal
restrtuing of consumption could be expected to take place. This would involve a
mared reduction in direct per capita consumption of grain and a corresponding increase
in the intake of meat, eggs, fish, milk, fruits, sugar and vegetables. To meet these
expected changes in demand, the Govemment adopted ambitious production targets for the
year 2000, including a doubling of fisheries producton, pnmarily through large-scale
expansion of freshwater ponds.
2.2         Total fisheries production of 6.2 million t in 1984 allowed an average per
capita consumpton of about 5 kg, less than one-tird the world average and low by
comparison to many other developing countries, e.g., Bangladesh (8 kg) and the
Philippines (35 kg). Development of freshwater culture fisheries, particularly small pond
culture, was made a special target because of the limited prospects 1/ for increasing
output from capture fisheries, the potential for significant yield incses from exsting
11    Rcent poduction ttsti do not entirely bea ts out (Ame1x.



-2
freshw*ter ponds, and the avalbility of unused or low-lig Iand suihble fo¢ conversion
into fis ponds; benefits were epcted to be increased quantities of fish for uran
consune   d increased employment opportnide and nmes for ra  producers.
Becau  of tbe inadequacy of tansport and cold stoae filUties and in respone to
taditonal consumer demand forfesh fish, the Govnment decied to esh  large-scale
fish cuture operatom in the suburban areas of major cities where there would be a large
guaranteed mrket for fresh fish. The Miy  of Agriculture (MOA) sdected the dght
cites f pi        n It projet after reviewing their data base comprising population,
fisheies production, and market potental before preseting the project to the  1ak for
possble financing. The eight cities were economic centers with an ubn populbon of
some 25 million. Soon after presentation to the Bak of the present project, efeed to
localy as the Eight Cities Fisheries Project, the Govremment begn prepaon of a similar
project to be funded by WEP, called the Nme Cities Project for another group of smale
cities.2/ The major rationale for Bank involvement was to assist in putting into pla
a large-scale comprehensive system of fisheries production, including extenson amd
markeing facilities, to enable the Bureaus of Aquatic Products (BAPs) at the various levels
(central, provincial, municipal, county) to gain access to technologi available abroad in
feed formuation, feed pocening, cold storage and intensive monoculture systems; and to
help the Government create commercial fisheries enterpnses operating on principles of
sound commercial management.
3.   Project Objectives and Descriptiou
3.1          'e principal objective of the project was to assist the Government in the
dveloment of fresiwater fish culture in the vicinity of eight major urban centers by
improving extng ponds and using land unsuitable for crops for new pond construction;
pwrviding techniques and equipment for pond management, and strengthening the support
faities for production and marketing of fish. The eight project cities were Beijing,
Chengdu, Chongqing, Hangzhou, Harbin, Nanchang, Shanghai and Shenyang. The project
was to include:
(a)   establishment of 11,100 ha of new ponds and improvement of 6,100 ha of
exsting ponds, including proviion of water supply, drainage, power
supply, farm roads and buildings and, where required, pond lining, flood
protection, and slope protection;
0)   construction and equipping of support ficilities, including 14 feed mills, 4
cold strage plants, 6 technical service centers, 7 tade centers, 20- ha of
tlpia overwinteing facilities, a vaccine factory and a 25 ha runniwater
hatchery;
(c) provision of construction equipment and vehicles to fish farms and support
facilities for production, extension and marketing;
Yicna (Niga), Robbot (Nei MW I), Changebuu (Jii), rm  (Shvdo;ng). Tkou
tHewn), Xi (Shaanxi), Nanjing (liaugsu), Hehi (Ah) and Kunmig (Y) ).



-3-
(d)   povision of producdon equipment and materis to fa fams; and
(e)   a tWaining and  echnicail assistance proram  deigned to upgade te
.qualificationsof project staff to implement dite proposed project nd condnue
fisheies development in the eight cities.
4.    Piqject Desig and Oraniation
4.1         binovativeness. While, in cerin limited areas, int td cappolyculure
had been deveoped to a hi8h technical standard with yields as high as 7.5 t/ha reported,
the vast majority of the te-existing fish ponds in China produced yields of less than one
tlta as a result of poorly designed pond layout, use of inapppriate breeds or stocking
rates, and poor feed management. The project as designed rpesented a tansidonal stage
beween traditional caup polyoulture and a modern fish frming operation and was eXPected
to pave the way for introduction of intensive monoculture systems.
4.2         Technology Itroduction.  With centuries of  ex            with carp
polyculture, Chinese fish famerd have evolved techniques of balancing  ocking structr
so hat food tonsumpion by the fish is in pace with the growth of the natun food sWly
(phytoplankton).YI While the traditional carp polyculture system provides litle
justificaion for using high grade feed concentrates, a first step in the design of a
transional system to bridge the gap between the traditional carp polyculture and wide-
scale producdon of high-value species would be the introduction of moden feed technology
and provision of equipment for its production.
4.3          PreparatIon. The project was prepared by the eight cities with the guidance
of the BAP (MOA) over a two year period. The Fisheries Project Office (OF) ;a the
BAP provided gidelines and a fonnat for preparaton of feasibility rePorts by each city.
Ithe FPO oranized a series of meedngs in 1984 and 1985 to insure conasistency of
approach to project design and preparation and required that each partcipatng city include
the project in its local economic development plan so that adequate domesic funds would
be earmarked for this purpose and that state-supplied construction material would be
allocat  in sufficient quantities. The feasibility reports were comprehensive and while,
at the time the municipal project offces (MPOs) were not fmiliar with conoepts of
disouwting and raes of return, copious data were provided.
4.4          Site Selection.  The criteria formulated during project design for the
slection of project sites took into account socioeconomic as wdl as engineering and
I    In the traditional systm application of one ton of crude protein (from maue and raw, low-quality
feedatM) can result in 10 t of fish. However, handling and tranport of manure and cutting and
arrying grasses (at roughly 3-5 pecent crude protein) in sufficient quantities imposes a highlabor
requremt. Industrializing ocegradually abandon this method of production because (a) most
hfmed fish are medium or low quality (bony and soft flesh), (b) questonably hygienic products
(considered to cary transmittable disoase b ia from the human and aninal waste), (c)
envomental risk (from disposal of a large quaity of anaerobic bottom mud from the
acunio of heavy appliaions of manure) and (d) tho intevsive abor rquiemn



-4-
physical factors. These caiteria wee: local demand for, or wilingness to partpate in,
the project; local financing capabity; local fih farming e¢xpiencelterest; proximity to
market; availability of land resource (swamps, waste or idle lnd and margaly productive
agricultural land); ready access to road, water and electity suppies; and minimum flood
risk. These crnteria proved to be pertnent and were wel borne out by the changes made
during implementation.
4,5         Engne      Design. Pond dimensions, farm layout and engineering design
of fish ponds were subjects of pdmary consideration during project preTaration. The size
of standard rectangulr ponds varied from city to city. The radonalization of pond
dimensioning was influenced by the construction method,4 cultural requirements, and
operation and production management practice. Pond size varied from 5 to 25 mu (0.33
to 1.67 ha), with the earthworks of larger sized ponds being carried out with bulldozers
or other mechanical equipment (mud pumps). But water depti was almost a common
denominator; a 2.5 m water depti was considered necessary to give high yields.
4.6         The model farm layout had separate systems for conveying water to and
-raining water from ponds, the arrangement being to provide alternate fillng and draining
canals with direct access to each pone About two thirds to three quartes of the total area
of a fish farm would be occupied by pond water surface, the remainder taken up by canals
and drains and pond/canal embankments. Pond embankments would have top widths
varying from a minimum of 3 m (to provide vehicular access and for stability) to a
maximum of 15 m (to provide an area for planting grass to be used as feed for the fish).
Lining of ponds was provided at sites located at former flood plains in the upper reaches
of rivers where the land was covered with gravel and coarse materials (Chengdu). Lining
of embankment slopes was also provided to protect against erosion by wind-driven wave
action at sites with easily eroded, friable soils. To minimize the effect of the wind-
generat  wave action, the short sides of the rectangular pond were aligned in the
prevailing wind direction. To the extent possible, the long side of the pond was oriented
in the east-west direction for maximum exposure of the pond surface to direct sunlight.
Finally, a 1:3 (vertical to horizontal) embankment side slope was adopted for mechanical
construction and sandy soils; steeper slopes (1:2 or 1:2.5) were adopted for manual
construction and heavy clay soils, and a 1:1 slope was used for concrete lined slopes. In
general, the pond dimensions were well conceived and project farms appeared to be easily
able to operate and manage the selected pond sizes.
4.7         Appropriateness of Scope and Scale. In 1984, fish was still considered as
a "holiday" meal. While the Govcrnment was correct in its assumption that as incomes
increased, consumers would want a varied diet that would call for more fish consumption,
litde thought was given to consumer preferences for higher quality and different species
4/    The horizontal dimensions (long and short sides) are generally influenced by the optimum distnee
of earth moving by mechaical means Ulldozers) or by the reasonable distce of moving ea*th
mually. The vetical dimsensio is determined by the wate depth and water body req!uird for
high production under the polycultur% system. Ease of feedg and harvesting (both tnanual
operaions) and the m_aaable pond sz for idividu  farm famies re as impra
considmteions.



of fish that would aompany the increased incomes in the futre. Also, the projet
incrporated provisions for tie traditonal marbetng system of a centrally planned
economy with govemment-owned coId stores and tmade cenrs. Timing of the project was
appropriate-the project coincided with the move from subsistence frming to development
of specialized housdeolds with a market orientation. Some MPOs thought that a X aiced
scale of operations (less area of ponds) would have precluded emerging markedng
problems. Others postulated that fewei and ager fiams would have been easier to
mnage, but also acknowledged that, while larger farms have less difficulty in raising
capital for further development, they also have more difficulty in marketing their
production.
4.8        Roles and Responsibilities. The Bureau of Aquatic Products in the Ministry
of Agriculture (then called the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
Fisheries-MAAF) was designated as the lead agency and a Fishery Project Office (FPO)
was set up to be responsible for coordinatng the activities of the eight participating
municipalities and, subsequently, for the same functions with respect to the Nine Cities
Project funded by WFP and now for an ADB-finced fisheries Project now under
preparation.
4.9         At the municipal level, a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) was set up
with representatives from provincial and municipal technical and financing agencies, such
as planing, agriculture, finance, fisheries, and Agriculture Bank of China (ABC). Within
the local Bureau of Aquatic Products, a Project Office was set up to manage the day to day
aspects of project implementation. Each county or district and township also set up its
own project unit with professional staff. The MPOs assumed a strong leadership role in
the project and also maintained a close relationship with the farms. The Coordinating
Commiutees were responsible for allocating funds, selecting project sites and addressing
any major problems during implementation. Coordinatng Committees were usually
chaired by the Vice Mayor for Agriculture. This hierarchy of PCCs and Project Offices
has been used in vitually all the Bank/IDA-financed agriculture projects in China and has
been very effective in securing coordination in planning and implementation.
4.10        Fisheries Development Corporations (FDCs) were set up to operate the
support facilities (feed mills, trade centers, technical serice centers, cold stores). The
FDCs were newly evolved commercial entities as the Government promoted separation of
commercial and regulatory activities of the line agencies, in this case the BAPs, in the mid
1980s. At the municipal level (with the exception of Shanghai), the FDCs were state-
owned corporations, with charters prepared and registed with the General Administration
of Industry and Commerce (GAIC) in accordance with State Council regulations enacted
in August 1985. Receipt of the charters approved by the appropriate office of the GAIC
was a condition of Credit effecdveness. The Shanghai Municipal PDC was not a
corporation registered with GAIC, however, it was authonzed by the municipal
government to carry out production and commercial operations and was accepted by the
Bank group for the project. At full development, it was anticipated that the FDCs would
generate sufficient profits from the support services to cover operatng expenses,
depreciation, and repayment of investment costs. In three of the eight cities, core staff of



-6-
the MPOs have been absorbed into the PDCs (Harbin, Chongqing and Shanghai); the other
five cities bave kept separat FDCs and MPOs.
4.11       Effect of Roles and Responsibles. Thecentral-level BAP and the FPO
have contributed  igificanty to project success by their continuous involvement
throughout the design and prepartion and on into the implemention phase. The FPO
has empaszed contnuity of staff at the municipal level, so most of the project staff have
been workdng with the proJect since the time of prepartion and have a stong sense of
commitment and "ownership." As construction was nearing completion, the emphasis of
both the FPO and the MPOs bega to switch to produdon technology. The close rom
between the MPOs and the individual farms have not diminifshed even after project
completion because the )POs acknowledge their reonsibility in assuring repayment from
the townships and villages. One of their first ta   was to overcome the notion that "the
government would own the pond and give a grant for its establishment.' Some cities, in
fact, did provide an incentive to project participaion by contributing some part of the
funds for construction, e.g., Shangai provided a grant of Y 700/mu for new ponds and
Y 500/mu for rehabilitation of ponds. Indicative of the strong reform orientation in late
1992, one MPO offered an inmteresing retrospective viewpoint: the MPO should have been
an economic entity (proding capital) and formed a joint venture with the townships
(providing lnd). The effect of such an arrangement would be to share the eamnings
between farmers, townships and the municipal govenment.
5.   Project Implementation
5.1        Total project cost, expressed in local currency, increased from Y 593 million
at appraisal to Y 661.8 million, and in $ tenns, decraused from $197.3 million to $178.5
million. This represents a 12 percent cost increase expressed in local currency and a
10 percent decrease when expressed in $. During the period 1986-91, te Yuan was
devalued from an xchange rate of Y 3.0  $1 at appraisal in 1985 to Y 5.45 = $1 in
1992 at completion. The original IDA contribution of SDR 52 million ($60 million
equivalent in 1985) was intended to cover 30 percent of the total cost; however, with
increases in disbursement rates agreed during implementation and devaluations of the $ to
SDR exchange rate, the IDA financing amounted to $65.95 million and covered 37 percent
of total costs. Of the total cost, construction of ponds and related infrastructure accounted
for 70 percent, support facilities (cold stores, feed mills, etc.) 13 percent, vehicles
9 percent, production equipment and mateis 8 percent, and technical assistance and
taining <1 percent.
5.2        Variances Between Plamed and Actual. The total project area was
virtually unchanged between apprsal and completion-11,179 ha of new ponds were
constructed (11,103 ha at appraisal) and 6,082 ha of ponds were improved (6,074 ha at
appraisal). The number of completed fish farms was more than the proposed number at
appraisal by over 40 percent. This increase and also the many changes in farm sites during
implementatin were due to (1) the withdrawal of participating townships and villages from
the project (Nanchang and Shanghai); (2) the inity of participatig townships and
villages to undertke the scale of development as originaly proposed (Beijing, Chengdu



-7-
and Harbin); (3) prefrnce of partiipating villages to operate as separate entities rather
than as a part of township enterprises (Shenyang); (4) land at selectd sites required for
other uses (Shenyang); (5) the need to seek alternative sites in view of government policy
to retin even manlly productive land for grain production (Chengdu, Chongqng); and
additonal local requess for inclusion in the project (Hangzhou and Nanhng). The
changes made In response to changing or adverse circumstances no doubt yield better
project reslts in the end, but these inevitably caused some delay and slippage during
implementation. The increase in the total number of fish farms also meant the
consequendal increase in the amount and cost of infrastructural facilities-roads, power
supply nes, wells, pumps and housing for farm management-and imposed additional
management responsibilities on the project staff.
5.3         The cost of pond development, including earthworks, slope protection, water
supply and drainage, worksheds, etc., was on average Y 34,200/ha and ranged from
Y 26,900 (Shenyang) to Y 45,300 (Chongqing). The average cost was 35 percent higher
than the appraisal estimate of Y 25,300/ha. The cost of improved ponds averaged
Y l5,700/ha-29 percent higher than the appraisal estimate-and ranged from Y 1,200
(Chengdu) to Y 21,300 (Shanghai). Overall, the quantity of earthworks executed for new
ponds equalled the estimated quantity plus the 15 percent physical contingencies provided.
On averae, excavation and placement of earffi was 11,250 m3/ha compared with the
estimated 10,000 m3/ha at appraisal. For reconstructed ponds, the quantity exceeded the
estimate by about 20 percent and the average quantity of excavation and placement was
6,000 m3/ha as compared with the estimated 5,000 m3/ha at appraisal.
5.4         Two aspects of the pond design and layout were subjects of discussion
throughout implementation-separate water supply and drainage systems and slope
protection. Separate water supply and drainage arrangements offer complete flexibility and
independence to individual operators. However, this system takes up more land and also
costs more to construct. Most of the reconstructed farms and some new farms completed
under the project do not have a separate system. Apart from cost, limited land area
available for construction was an important consideration for not providing a separate
system. Another important consideration was that under the polyculture production
system, an appropriate pond nutrient level can be maintained for high yields. Management
of pond water quality by topping up with fresh water from time to time and by aeration
appear to be common practices for high yields and as a means of disease prevention.
Also, good quality nutrient-rich water is often recycled. Drainage of ponds seldom, if at
all, takes place except for harvesting and for evacuating excess water in times of storms.
Given these considerations, it appears that a separate system is a desirable feature, rather
than a necessity, in the present production scheme. However, the single supply/drainage
system may be the limiting factor in further technological advances towards monoculture
or intensive cultivation of high valued species.
5.5         Slope protection works were caried out in Chengdu, Chongqing, Hangzhou
and Shanghai and pond lining in Chengdu only. For slope protection, there was a
reduction in the quantity for concrete panels by about 60 percent, while the quantity for
the less expensive forms of slope protection works increased by the same percentage, The



- 8 -
quantities for pond lining in Chengdu increased by about 30 percent. Embankment slope
instabU"it,y preents a serious problem at some project farms, mainly in Shanghai and to
some extent in Nanchang and Hangzhou. A combination of friable soils encountered at
stes and wind-generated wave action has resulted in continual erosion of pond
embanktents. Orientation of the ponds with the short sides aligned in the directon of the
prvilg winds may abate the severity of erosion, but not check it. In Shanghai,
provision of slope protecdon for ponds is a feature of reconstruction sites and may become
a necessity for new sites where the shrining embankment width is no longer adequate to
accommodate further erosion. To a lesser extent, this latter aspect applies to the ponds in
WHangzhou and Nanchang. Cost studies canied out by the Shanghai and Hangzhou Project
Offices showed that given the relatively high pond productivity, investment in slope
protection can be financially justified.
5.6         However, the issue of embanknent lining is a matter of continuing debate.
A WFP project in Hangzhou justified lining as a necessary and effective deterrent to
typhoon damage of ponds. During supervision of the present project in Hangzhou, the
consultant aquaculturist pointed out that provision of a permanent protectt". covering
would increase the difficulty in modifying pond design and thus reduce flexibiity in pond
udlization.5/ While documented conclusive evidence is sparse, limited eperiments in
India suggest that planting vetiver on embanlanents may be an economically attractive
alternative to permanent protective cover in suitable climates.
5.7          The increase in the number of project fish farms generally resulted in
corresponding increases in infrastructural facilities to be provided under the project.
Significant increases in the cost of water supply and drainage facilities occurred in all cities
except Chongqing. Specific work items with substantial increase in quantity included
supply canals (Chengdu and Hangzhou), sluice gates (Chengdu, Hangzhou and Harbin),
and water wells (Beijing and Shenyang). The increase in the number of wells and
submersible pumps was especially marked. It was reported that production in Beijing,
Shanghai and Shenyang (all tuee have achieved the ful development yield) can be
substantially attributed to the adequate number of wells and submersible pumps for the
supply and management of water.
5.8          There was also a marked increase in the engineering quantities for power
supply and roads. Overall, power supply lines, both high and low voltage, increased by
70 percent, although in absolute terms, the power lines installed worked out to be only 1.6
kn per site for new ponds and 0.6 km per site for reconstructed ponds. Simple roadways
serving as access to fish farms increased by 74 percent, and on average 1.7 km of road
were constructed for one new site and less than 0.2 km constructed for one reconstructed
I/    To illustrate this point, he cited the development of aquaculture in Taiwan (China). Whea annual
per capita consumption stabilized at about 3S kg, the emphasis shiftd from quantitative increases
to species diversity. At the end of the production season, Taiwanese farmers drain and clean the
ponds and make dike repairs with earthmoving equipment; at the same time, modifications can be
made, merging small ponds into large ones or partitioning large ponds and installing new drains or
canals. This allows flexibility of switching among eel, shrimp, grouper, and giant perch culture
fiom year to year in accordance with changes in the markt situation.



-9 -
site. These are within the distances foreseen at appraisal (1-2 kin) and compare favorably
with the length of roads provided in the IFAD-financed Guangdong Integrated Freshwater
Fishfamiing Project (5 km to one site on avetage).
5.9        In all, 197,000 m2 of offices, dwellings and workshops were constructed as
compared with 89,000 m2 planned at appraisal, an increase of 120 percent, and 126,000
i2 of animal sheds (for poultry and swine) were completed as compared with 110,000 in2,
a  15 percent increase.   These work out to be, on average, 0.75  n2 of
offices/dwellings/workshops and 0.5 n2 of sheds per mu of pond and are less than the
corresponding facilities provided in the IFAD project, which are I i2 for each.
5.10        The number of construction equipment and vehicles provided for the project
(1,671) was less than the proposed number at appraisal (1,910), due mainly to the deletion
of 40 2.5-t refrigerated trucks for Harbin and the purchase of fewer, but larger capacity
transportation vehicles (5 t trucks instead of 1.5-4 t capacity trucks).  Imported
earthmoving equipment procured for pond construction in Beijing, Harbin, Nanchang and
Shenyang comprised crawler dozers and excavators. The imported machines were found
to be efficient and superior to domestic equipment. In the early 1980s, domestically
produced low ground pressure (LGP) bulldozers were more costly to operate, with their
shorter working life and higher maintenance costs, than imported equipment. The project
provided 30 bulldozers and 7 excavators for construction (Beijing, Harbin, Nanchang and
Shenyang). In Nanchang, the BAP arranged a joint venture with a local engineering
company for operation and maintenance of the equipment, splitting the profit
60:40-BAP's share last year was Y 1.0 million (value of equipment was Y 6.4 million).
Harbin and Shenyang formed subsidiary construction companies and continue to operate
the equipment. Beijing, on the other hand, procured six bulldozers, which arrived after
most of the ponds had been built and sold (three to the Shenyang PO and two to a local
construction company) or leased them (to another construction company). Experience with
the equipment has been good, but, unfortunately, the useful life is drawing to a close, and
replacement machines will be procured domestically because of the reported 100 percent
tax on imports. Despite the fact that the imported machinery might be economically more
favorable (since economic analysis deletes import taxes as transfer payments), from the
point of view of the MPOs, the financial analysis makes domestic equipment more
favorable. During implementation, the FPO coordinated preparation of and introduced a
cost accounting system for construction equipment which, in conjunction with the usual
maintenance and operating logs, provides a management information system for each piece
of machinery and a historical record of use, costs and earnings.
5.11        Support Facilities.  By comparison, less thought was given to the
formulation of appropriate engineering design criteria for support facilities with a view to
cost effectiveness and efficiency. As a consequence, some feed mills have over-size
buildings, and land and buildings account for an inordinately high proportion of
construction cost. In addition, difficulties were experienced with incomplete and poor mill
equipment, with consequential delay and financial loss. Technical specifications for the
procurement of feed mill equipment could have been more adequately prepared and



- 10-
revewed. This would then have formed the basis for a more ngorous bid evaluation to
insure that the appropriate equipment was selected.
5.12        Fees. Twelve feedmills, including two with extruders, were procured.
The Bank rommended t bids should be invited for complete systems, iLtead of part
to be procued through ICB and part by LCB. A compromise was reached-whole
production lines would be procured by ICB for mills with annual output of 10,000 t or
more and only key equipment for the 3-5,000 t mills. As one might expect, each of the
cities expeiaenced difficulties in coordinating the assembly of the imported and the
domestically manufacured pieces into a satsfaorily operating mill. The extder
equipment has not yet been put into operation, despite prolonged contact with the supplier,
and is still under arbitration. Demand for fish feed (para. 31) is still taking only a portion
of the feed mill capacity, with all mills producing livestock and poultry feed to boost
earnings.
5.13        Cold Stores. Inclusion of cold stores in the project reflected the producton
pattern of the early 1980s-farmers regularly got their fish seeds from the state-run
hatcheries in May-June and harvested their fish in November. These fish were procured
by the state-run cold stores to hold 4-5 months for distribution during national holidays.
Most of the cold stores had been built with 1950s technology and were in need of
replacement, which was carried out under the project as scheduled. However, now
farmers are harvesting part  quantities of their production from June to Spring Festival
(usually January/lFebruary) as a result of multiple harvesting practices intead of glutting
the market in October/November with their entire production. Consumers still show a
marked preference for, if not live, at least fresh fish. Consequently, the cold stores are
used to store marine fish, wholesaling of which is still largely in the hands of the local
BAPs, and other perishable products. Most project cold stores, however, only reach a
profitable level when leased out to individuals and businesses. Thus, cold stores do not
play a sgnificant role in storage of the project output.
5.14        Trade Centers. To round out the supply and distribution chain, six of the
eight cities planned for Trade Centers under the project. In 1985, the Bureaus of Aquatic
Products still played an important role in marketing. This is no longer true, and while
each Project Office appreciates the value of their project-built facility, generally in the
center of town, operation no longer focuses on fish marketing, e.g., some have become
department stores aimed at the general public (taldng advantage of their fivorable
locations), others derive profits from leasing space and some combine both. Thus, project
trade centers do not play a significant role in marketing of project output.
5.15        Traning and Study Tours. Domestic training was organized at the city
level for farm managers, vehicle drivers, accountants, and technicians and at the county
and township levels for fish farmers. MPO and FPO staff undertook a program of
overseas study tours and training-13 missions to nine foreign countries involving 62.5
person-months (47 percent of the appraisal estimate). The study tours were sharly
focussed and participants were carefully selected. The FPO hired an in
consultant to provide training in computer use and data management for staff of the Project



* 11 -
Offices-IDA had intended that this raining be directed toward pond management, but tbe
MPOs expressed tir prefience that computer utizaton begin with fina  managemet
by senag project office acountants for the training. Local conltants wer hired to
develop softwe for project management; however, aftr numerous eenons and an
unacceptable endproduct, the FPO cancelled this contact. Also, the FPO orgnd
busine  management training by local consultants for operators of asot facilities to
bring about more profit oriented management.
5.16        Production Equipment and Materials. The project at appraisal provided
for various producton equipment such as feeders, aertors, and blenders, but these were
not procured under the project. When individual farmers decided to purchase such
equipment, they used their own funds and procured locally. The project also provided for
1,057 t of urea and 3,944 t of fishmeal, but quantities provided were far in excess-7,350 t
of urea and 13,500 t of fishmeal. The fishmeal was supplied to feedmills but, as can be
seen from current production data, most of this was used in livestock and poultry feed and
thus was not directly related to fisheries production.
5.17        Project Risks. The SAR identified a possible risk in the development of
feed concentrates and each city was provided with a feed mill facility to reduce this risk.
However, famers' acceptance of commercially pelletzed feed has been limited (except in
Shenyang). There are several explanations for this: (a) the stocldng pattems promoted by
the local BAPs and/or adopted by project farmers in many cases do not emphasze the
species of fish which would benefit from artificial feeds, (b) the feedmills were not yet in
operation when production sted and farmers purchased simple on-farm mills to fill the
gap, and (c) farmers have more confidence in the quality of their own feed mix and
distrust the commercial formulations. While the project miUls could undoubtedly produce
a superior feed product with a lower conversion rate, due to inclusion of vitamins, amino
acids and binder (to lengthen the time of water insolubility), the cost was generally higher
than farm-produced feeds on a weight basis.
5.18        Unforeseen Factors. At appraisal, the extent and impact of market refonns
was not anticipated. Nor was it envisaged that single individuals would be contracting
whole farms, government run trade centers would not play a key role in distribution of
output, or that harvesting of fish would take place from early summer up to Spring
Festival. The project was designed and implemented in the context of a centrally planned
economy with its emphasis on quantity (and targets), not quality and market demand.
6.    Project Results
6.1         Objectives. The objectives of the project were met in that freshwater fish
culture was developed in the eight cities; the area under intensive fish cultivation has been
expanded, land unsuitable for crops has been converted into ponds, and technology and
equipment for pond management have been provided. The project has contributed to
increased production of freshwater fish and has, to a certain extent, served as a model for
establishment of commercial scale fish farms. Government's objective was mainly to
increase the supply of fish in the urban markets, and ftis has been achieved. An



- 12-
underlying objective, though not specifically cited in the SAR, was to set the stage for
futher development of freshwater fisheries by introducing technology associated with more
advanced fish cture, i.e. artificial feeds and water quality controls. This also has been
achieved in the project areas as evidenced by the initial steps already taken to introduce
higer valued species into the stocking structure.
6.2          Production. Average yields (1991) for new ponds ranged from 4.2 ttha
(Harbin) to 8.9 t/ha (Beijing) and, for improved ponds, 3.9 tlha (Harbin) to 9.1 t/ha
(Shanghai). Three cities (Beijing, Shanghai and Shenyang) had surpsed their projected
full development yield. a 1991; the other five were expecting to reach full development
yields in 1992. Shanghai PO attributes their high yields to stocking large size fingerlings
of good quality, correct proportions of various species by size and weight,fi and large
(10 mu) ponds with 3 m water depth and good water control. Total market size fish
production in 1991 was about 106,000 t (64,000 t from new ponds and 42,000 from
improved ponds)-about 2 percent of China's total production of freshwater cultured fish.
6.3          Production Costs. Having completed construction and disseminated curent
production technology to project farms, the attention of MPOs is now focussing on
reducing production costs. The obvious target is the most costly item-feed. Mills are
experimenting with lowering the feed conversion rate or the cost by substition of various
locally available and inexpensive components, but this is regarded as proprietary
information and successful results are not disseminated. The Bank's Animal Feed Sector
Study provides an analysis showing that complete replacement of fish meal (@ Y 3.6/kg)
with alternative protein feed ingredients (soybean meal, rape seed meal and synthetic lysine
and methionine) results in a saving of Y 1.41/kg of fishmeal replaced. Since fishmeal
typically makes up about 5 percent of the volume of formulated feed, this substitution
could reduce the cost of fish feed about 4 percent. The study points out that there are two
principal constraints to adopting this replacement strategy: a habitual reluctance to exclude
fish meal from any formulations and the lack of Least-Cost-Fonnulation technology with
which to calculate and demonstrate replacement rations. Domestically produced single-cell
protein is also showing promise as a substitute for fishmeal.
6.4         Mrkets and Prices. As increased quantities of fish have come into the
market,J prices for freshwater fish have stabilized or declined, except in Chongqing,
Harbin and Shenyang. In the other cities, current fish prices, adjusted to 1985 prices, are
as much as 35 percent lower than the values used in the SAR, but values of weighted
average output range from 9 to 20 percent lower as farmers have minimized the impact of
lower pnces by changing the structure of production. In Harbin, prices have increased by
if    Fourty percent of total production is silver carp and big head which are stocked in production ponds
as fingeings in the summer for brvest the following year during the penod that manne fish is in
short supply.
I/    Total production of aquatic products at 13.5 million tons in 1991 shows an 118 percent increae over
1984 levels, with marine capture fisheries up 85 percent, maiculture up 197 percent, freshwater
capture up 104 perc't and fhwater aquaculture up 155 percent. Per capita conmption is now
about II kg.



- 13-
13 percent over the SAR values, in Shenyang 7 percent and in Chongqing 3 percent,
reflecig the relative scarcity of freshwater fish that still exists i these locales.
Increasingly, farms and farmers will have to switch to production of higher valued species
in order to sustain profitable operations, yet Bank supervision missions did not emphasize
this point.
6.5         Modern marketing systems have been slow in developing-most farms either
harvest small quantidies on buyers" demand or spread word of a major harvest to
potentially interested buyers and negotiate prices at pond side. Buyers geneally provide
tasport and storage. An alternative market afrangement was observed in Nanchang
where the MPO's Trade Center is located riverside in the city proper; a "floating market"
has been establisbed whereby sellers can transport small quantities of fish by boat
(generally live) and buyers can inspect and purchase their required quantities. The MPO
provides scales for weighig and collects a small charge from the seller for use of the
facilities. Funds devoted to trade centers might have been better spent in developing a
modem marketing and distribution system which would have benefitted both consumers
and producers and could have incorporated both freshwater and marine products.
6.6         Pond Ownership and Management. Ownership of the 1,223 project fish
farms is divided between villages (55 percent), townships (36 percent) and counties
(9 percent). Operation, however, assumes various forms: as a state farm (18 percent),
collective (34 pernent), individual (47 percent) and other (1 percent). State farm operations
generally feature workers with targets and bonuses and collectives generally contract out
each pond to a single farmer who pays an annual fee (which includes an amount sufficient
for loan repayment, though this is not necessarily stated). In the case of individual
operation, the entire farm is contracted from the owner (village, township, or county) and
workers are hired on a daily or seasonal basis to assist in production. There appears to
be a competitive market for the right to use ponds, as some cities determine the allocation
of ponds by conducting a bidding process for the contract fee and are able to collect 20-
30 percent of the contract fee in advance.
6.7         Tourism and Sport Flshing. Some of the larger farns have been able to
capitalize on the development of domestic tourism by setting up restaurants, featuring both
freshwater and marine fish products, on main transportation routes. Frequently, farms
located near the cities are also able to offer the opportunity for "sport" fishing-indeed,
it was not rare to see people pole and line fishing from the edge of a pond-and prices for
the catch are nearly double the price paid by the usual buyers.
6.8         Organiation. Charged with responsibility for both the WFP and the
present project, the FPO assembled representatives of the 17 cities together periodically
to discuss implementation problems. The cities organized themselves into the Fisheries
Projects Association to exchange information, arrange trade, and provide mutual assistance.
For example, the Harbin PO provided feed materials for other project cities, traded corn
and sorghum with Chengdu and Chongqing in exchange for pork, and arrmnged for
Nanchang to sell pearl jewelry to the former Soviet Union, to whom it provided consumer
goods in exchange for timber, steel and fertilizer.



-14-
6.9        FLUs  and Inomes. Recalclate FMRs for new ponds ranged from
11 peent (Nanhang) to 26 percent(Sheny   and, when financial coo  and benefits for
new ponds in all eight cities were agepted, the FMR was 18.5 pcent, ghtly higher
hn the appis  estimate of 17 percent. Reestimate FRRs were above the arais
esdmate for five of the cities and below for te o     three Haungth, Haibin and
Nanchang) reflecting not only th variation in investment costs and yields, but lso
stckng structure, prices in the local market (reflctng consumer prefence for diffent
spede), and perting costs. Taxes as a percent of marketable output were generally 1
to 4 percent, except in Hangzhou (10 percent) and Chongqing (14 percent). Net income
(before taxes) per kg of market fish ranged from Y 1.0/kg in Shanghai and Beiing to
Y 3.0/kg in Chongqing. Annual net income per mu rnged from a low of Y 389/mu
(Harbin) to a high of Y 1,453 (Chongqing). Using fte total area of ponds divided by the
reported number of farmers as a proxy for the average size of pond gives an average pond
size ranging from 6.7 mu (Chongqing) to 21.9 mu (Harbin) and average annual incomes
per pond of Y 9,735 in Chongqing and Y 8,519 in Harbin. It is impossble to precisely
coreate specfic factors that result in the high and low FRRs, but a profile of Nanchang
and Shenyang shows the following characterscs:
Nanchang           Shenyang
Average investment cost/mu:                Y 33,985             Y 25,934
Average output price/kg                       Y 3.6                Y 4.9
Average cost of production/kg                 Y 2.5                Y 3.3
Average yield (1991 kg/mu)                      464                 480
Ponds operated by individuals                  85%                  85%
Buildup of production area:
Year 1                                       42%                  17%
Year 2                                       60%                  86%
Year 3                                      100%                 100%
Year 4                                      100%                 100%
Year S                                      100%                 100%
Recalculated FRR                             11.2%                25.9%
SAR esdmated ERR                             18.3%                17.5%
6.10       In this case, Nanchang's higher investnent cost, lower output pric and low
net income/kg and slower rate of buildup (construction) combined to adversely affect the
FRR. Nanchang had yet to achieve its target full development yield (500 kgmu) in 1991,
while Shenyang had already achieved more than its SAR full development yields in the first
year of operation (373 kg/mu actual vs. 347 kg/mu projected in fte SAR as full
development yields). Ptojections of full development yields in the SAR were based on the
fact that Shenyang, being a northerly city with a limited production season, does not have
a favorable climate for fish production; however, Shenyang has promoted a strict feeding
regimen with pellet feeds and a production scheme emphasizng common caGp and
silver/bighead (3:1 production). With this stocldng structure, the weighted average price



- 15v
of output shows a 7 perent increase in rea terms over the SAR projected prices, while
Nancag shows a 12 percent price decre.
6.11         RRs for improved ponds were recalculated for each city (ranging between
12.4 percent for Harbin and 54.9 percent for Chongqing) and for the agpvpte impwved
ponds, 31.9 prent. This compares favorably with the SAR estimae of 28 percent.
6.12        ERRs for new ponds were recalculated for each city and ranged between
12.4 prcent (Nanchang and 30.8 percent (Chongqing) and for the aggreated new ponds,
23 percent.j  The main difference from the SAR was that the conversion actr for
labor was assumed to be 1.0 instead of 0.5, in line with the liberization of rl labor
markets. Recalculated ERRs were greater than the SAR values for three of the cities and
less tan the SAR values for the other five. ERRs for the aggregated improved ponds
were reestmated at 37 percent, ranging between 14 percent (Haorbin) and > 100 percent
(Chongqing). FRRs and ERRs were not recalculated for cold stores and feedmills.
6.13        Project Sustalnabilty. All project ponds are reported to be in full
production. In the majority of cases, unit production has reached or exceeded the target
set at appi. A few farms have aleady repaid the loan fully. The completed project
works thus form a good foundation for fishery production. For the ponds to remain in
peration condition, regular maintenance and occasional renewal works are necessary. In
addition, upgading works will also become necessary as the farms move gradually towards
the production of high-valued species. Given the rapidly expardig economy and rising
labor cost, it is necessary to give early thought to evolving approriate methods and
procedures of mechanized maintenance and possibly operation.
6.14        Another issue of sustainability relates to site locations. At the time of
appraisal, sites had been selected within the administrative boundaries of the municipalities
-some even within districts of the city proper. With the pace of economic development
in China, particularly in the coastl cities, more financially attractive activities may replace
fish production on closer-in farms. This trend has been observed in other Asian countries
and could well take place in parts of the project areas. In Shanghai, it can be expected that
some farms will either be changed to other land uses or become nuisances to the urban
dwellers in the near future.
7.   Bank Performance
7.1         The Bank's supervision missions were always staffed with an aquacultunist
and an engineer, in addition to the task manager. While various consultants were hired
for these roles, the task manager was involved in the project from preappraisal through to
completion. The Bank might have provided more assistance to the FPO in drafting
technical specifications for feed mills or been more rigorous in its review of bid documents
and more insistent on procurement of complete systems, rather than agreeing to a
/I The SAR provides ERRs for new and improved ponds for each city, but does not agregate the data



- 16-
combinaton of local and inmorted components. Also, the FPO would have liked llDA's
help In promoting attendance at overas confemces, as dmely news of these events was
not generaly availe to them and MOF's conditions for overseas tavel were strngent.
8.   Borrower Performance
8.1         The main strengths of fte Borrower were Ohe actively involved Fisheries
Project Office at tfie central levd, Municipal Ptoject Offices staffed with competent and
dedicated staff at the city levels, and strong support of local government leaders during
implementation.
9.    Poject Relatips
9.1         The Bank-Borrower relationship was consistenly cordial. The FPO and the
MPOs were responsive to suggestions by the supervision missions.
10.   Consulting Services
10.1        Consultants were engaged to provide training-an interationally recruited
consultant for computer fmialirization and data management and locally recniited
consultants for business management and development of proect management software.
The first two were satisfactory, but the third was not and the contract was cancelled.
11.  Project Documentatlou
11.1        The FPO provided timely semi-annual progress reports and annual audit
reports in the format agreed at appraisal. Early in implementation, the  PO held up
disbursements to the cities until progress reports were submitted, but this resulted in
considerable. implementation problems caused by lack of matching funds and the practice
was abandoned. The FPO organized preparation of PCRs, including a text and detailed
implementation tables, by each of the MPOs, stardng in 1991. This material was updated
for the PCR mission and provided the basic dat for this report.
12. Lessons Learned
12.1       The project is regarded as highly successful, both by the borrower and the
Bank. The main reasons for this are considered to be as follows:
(a)   Though the total project was spread out geographically, the main objective,
and thus the project design, was relatively simple-a fish production system.
(b)   For individual cities, the subprojects were relatvey accessible, i.e. no long
tortuous journeys were required for supervision by project offices.
Proximity to urban areas (a design feaure) also contributed to ease of
marketing.



-17-
(c)   The sense of ownerhip and commitment in the implementing agencies,
from the Fishres Projct Ofdice in the Mistry of Agiculture down to the
Municipal Project Offices in the eigt cities was extemely pronounced.
(d)   LOa govement provided trong supprt to the proec offics and the
catal levd provided good leadersip and guidance.
(e)   her was active networkng between the partipatng cities to exchange
infonmation about successes and problems.
(t)   All levels emphaszed speedy implementation with "construction and
production in fte same year,* even if ponds were not completely equipped
with water control facilities and other infrastucture.
(g)   Training was provided early in the implementaion period so that there
would be no delays incurred because of lac of technical knowledge.
12.2       For fiuther development of the freshwater fisheries sector, the following
actons are recommended:
(a)   To avoid further declines in f cial viablity, the introduction of new and
higher-valued species must be evaluated, especially in the coastal cities
where the availabilitY of marine fish places freshwater fish in a less
favorable marlet sitaon;
(b)   Trials should be initiated on estblishment of vetiver gass on embankaments
In areas where slope proton Is necestated by soil conditons and the
climate is suitable.
(c)   Studies and field researeA should be undertaken on a regional basis to
develop feed formulations, based on the introduction of least-cost
formulation (LCF) and substitution of fish meal by other protein ingredients,
and the findings passed on to local fisheres administrations and the feed
milLing industry.
(d) The marketing chain should be improved and modernized in line with the
economic reforms emphasizing the role of the pnvte sector and
trepreneurial initiative.



- 18-
PART Il: PROJECT  VIEW FROM BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
1.          According to the State 7th Five-year Development Plan, China fisheries
would be the focus to solve the Difficulty of Talkng Fish in large and medium cities,
proceeding from citizen's life improving. Therefore, it becme an important component
of fisheris production to uti  low-lying waste land for developing commercial fish
farming. Since large scale development required a large amount of funds and the national
budget was limited, the Chinese Government decided to apply for the MDA credit to
develop fish farming in suburban areas. Eight cities such as Beijing, Shanghai, etc. were
selected to be project sites from forty-five large or medium cities. Among the prject
cities, Beijing and Shanghai are the cities directly under the Central Govemment; Habin,
Shenyang, Hangzhou, Chengdu and Nanchang are provinal capitals; and Chongqing is
the city with directly fincial plan under the Central Government. The eight cities are
Chinese national or regional politcal and economical centers. Their population makes up
one third of China's urban population. In the eight cities, there was large market, better
nral conditions as well as economical ability, solid industnal foundation, and various
manufacturing industries that would benefit from  fisheries mchaniaon and
modenization.   The project would not only solve the problem of taking fish and
increasing fish farmer's income, but would also set up a scientific production model so as
to push fisheries production development.
R.  EMCOti  Rneamaimn
2.         The China Central and local Governments emphasized the project and had
made great efforts for its preparation. The project was put forward by the end of 1983.
A pre-appraisal mission from the Bank reviewed the project from May 28, 1985 to June
18, 1985, and was satisfied with the prepared materials, analyses and feasibility study of
fte project. In October, 1985, the project smoothly passed the appraisal. During the
period, the following asects were emphasized in our daily works:
3.   The Fisheries Project Office (FP0), under the Minstry of Agriculture, emphaized
collecting and analyzing project materials proposed by local fisheries maagement
depanments to be saved in a Project Database. Actual project would be selected from the
Database according to the requirements of certain special items. The China Freshwater
Fiseies Project was just selected from the Database. Practices have proved that setting
up a Database provides a reliable and correct basis for project selection.
4.   Based on selecdons from the project database, the project scale, contents, support
fcilities, construction methods, and investment plan, as weUll as the organizaton and
management, were analyzed or studied in det-il so as to choose the best program. This
laid a solid foundation for the project's success.



- 19-
S.   Sice April 1984, the FPO called seva  meetings to put forwad opiniom and
dema   to guide pr  prepraon in different periods. In August 1984, the FPO bhd
a project pr ato  semina in Chengdu City to anlyze and study the prqect prpaion
report proposed by project cites. Ihe methods and notices for maing feasibility stuies
also were discussed In the meeting. In January 1985, a meeting was convened in Beijing
to discuss and detrmine some credit prnciples, such as on-lending inst rates and credit
terms. In March 1985, the FPO caUed another meting in Shanghai to  her discus
project scale, project targets and organization as well as manaement.  With futher
investigation and combining local characteristics, the proect cities had made their
feasbilt study report fairly.
6.   The Project cities had seriously collected and sorted out basic materials from all
aspecs of the project so tdat the pro-appraisal and the formal apprasal were smoothly
C.
7.   The main targets of the project are as follows:
a.   To develop fish farming in suburban areas so as to solve the problem of
Takng Fish Difficulty;
b.   To introduce advanced techniques and equipment in combination with
raditional fish culture technology to realize fish culture in such conditions as standard
ponds, pellet feeding, mechanical transportation and sciendfic manageent;
C.   To make the project be a full and coordinated system of fish producdon and
4fl;
,.   To promote freshwater fish culure technology to set a model and accumulate
experience for the moderization of fish culture techniques in China.
8.   By the 7th year after the project ponds were put into operation, unit production of
fish in Chengdu, Beijing, Shenyang and Harbin would be 450, 400, 350 and 300 kg
resectively, and 500 kg for other project cities. The annual incremental fish production
would be 72,000 tons. The fish shared per capita in project cities would increase 2.8 kg.
The project would create 20,000 jobs for local labors.
D.  Emiec kLIMl ataiw
9.   Theprojecthas built 11,179 haofnewponds. Water supply, power supply, road,
bridge and farm buildings also had been completed. On the premise of keeping total slope
protecdon area unchanged, Hangzhou and Chengdu adjusted the construction methods so
that the constructed quantity of pond lining was increased and the total quantity of bricks
and quarrystone was decreased correspondently.
10.  Since the change of policy and actual situation on lnd utilization, the number of
fish farms has been increased from 865 to 1,223 with the Bank's approval. Since it's not
in accordance with the new national land use policy to uilize some low-yield land to build



20-
ponds, Chongqing has tned to uilize waste land or Wiliy lnd for pond consmcto.
Meawhie, Chongqing also elrged the number of project counte, so that the number
of project sites was increased crespondently.  Because die admvegion wa
adjusted, Hangzhou had inased prect sites.
11.        For guarantng pond construction quality, the FPO issued a Supevon
and Inspection Methods to v some regulations such as ponds would be self-inspected
by fish farms, accepted after checing by the city and county jointly, and random sample
inspection by the FPO. During the construction period, the FPO ornized two missions
composed of expert and conutants to inWect fish pond constucin quality. Proect
cities stegthened quality control on pond engineering. These measures guaranteed that
the ponds would be buit to the design standard. Project ponds have made a fne
perfomance within three year's operation.
12.        Support fcilities of the project have been basically completed or
overfulfiled, excepting the Hangzhou Trade Center. The Center had combined with the
Technical Service Center to form a Technical and Trade Center in Hangzhou. Because
some problems existed in land purchase and construction design, th  cne has not been
completed. The center is be expected to be completed in 1993.
13.        The prourement of the project baically was implemented in accordance
with the apprisal plan. For meeting the actual production requirements, some adjustments
were made. Fewer trclu were purchased, but the total tonnage was cloe to the appraisal
estimate. Also, many project units purcased trucks with local fnds; thus, the total
trnsport capacity of the project has met the operation requirement. Since the project's
quick engineeing progress, the area of fish ponds put into opeaon was gr    than the
appraisl plan. Therefore, additional fish meal and filizer were needed; fish meal was
incesed from 3,994 tons to actual 14,500 tons and fertlizer was increased from 1,0S7
tons to actual 9,350 tns. Domesdc manufing of fisheies producdon equipment and
instruments developed quickly, aid the project cities have continuously equipped their
technical departments with local funds. Therefore, instruments and production equipment
purchased by the project have been decreased from appraisal 402 sets to actual 168 sets,
canceling the procurement of ators, blenders and feeders.  The FPO caried out
international competitive bidding for the prcurement contracts above USD 200,000 and
three quotations for the contract below USD 200,000. China Machinery Import and
Export Company stood as proxy for the procurement.   Generaly, the equipment
purchased had better quality and advanced technology, and the prices were lower than the
interation market Equpment normally was supplied complying with its contract. This
guaranteed the smooth implementation of the project constructon and production.
14.        The appaisal technical assistance plan was basically completed. The FPO
organized 13 missions to realze 62.5 mn-months of overseas training or stdy tours,
makdng up 46.6% of the appraisal esfimation. Those missions learned advanced
technology and experience on freshwater culture, feed production or managent, modem
fisheries management, p sing and fish disease treatment, etc. The project employed
a foegn consultant to hold a training for project management and financial staff. Through



-21 -
the course, the trainees leamned to carry out financial analysis with microcomputs. Iis
not only extded some outsnding softwe, such as Lotus 1-2-3 and Dbase m  to
municipal project offices, but also made proect mentaff master the Bank's
financial analysis method, which has promoted the project management and laid down a
solid foundation for ut   this kmowledge in futwe domestic projects.  With 64,044
participants in local traning couses, the project overfufiled its plan. This played an
important role in strting project roducdon at a high level and realizing the estimated
economic benefits as scheduled. For instance, Shenyang City had emphasized the technical
training for fish farmers and technicians from the beginning of the project's
implementation. Shenyang MPO invited epert to hold ftrning courses to extend
advanced technology and experience of modern fish farming to the project area. This has
resulted in the Shenyang project sites contnuously incrasing their fish production so as
to bring their economic benefits into fu}l play.
E.  Results. Influence and Benefits of Prject
15. Economic Benefits of Fisheries: The project has successfully developed reclaimed
land, marshlands, and riversides and reformed some low-yiclding land. It built 11,179 ha
of new ponds and 6,075 ha of reconstructed ponds. Through project construction, we
have gained experience in land resource utilization and building many scaled and integrated
operation fish production bases. The project also formulated a comprehensive system
combining production, technical service and markbeing, and introduced necessary
equipment and advanced technology. As a result, the fisheries production level of the
project area has been promoted. The unit production of new prqject ponds had reached
or exceeded the project targets. By 1990, the unit output of Beijing, Shanghai and
Shenyang were 510, 556 and 400 kg per mu, respectively, reaching or surpassing their
designed targets that were estmated to be reached on the 7th year of operation. In 1990,
the project had produced 94,258 tons of fish making up 27.9% of the total fish production
of the eight project cities. The fish share per capita in project cities has increased 2.8 kg,
of which about one-third was contributed by the project.
16.        Integrated Fish Farming in Project Farms: It is an obvious characteristic of
the project to develop integrated fish farming. At the same time of taking fish production
as its main target, most fish farms combined fisheries with dairy, pig, chicken and duck
production. They also combined fisheries with feed, bamboo shoots and fruit planting.
Before the project, the location of Xiasha Aquaculture Farm in Yuhang County, Hangzhou
City, was waste reclaimed land with only 5.5 meter height above sea level. People planted
cotton on some higher land and orny got 15-20 kg of unit producdon per mu. With the
project, 960 mu of waste land was converted into 359 mu of fish ponds and 30 mu of eel
ponds to form the present farm. The farm used the raised land from pond construction to
plant 100 mu bamboo shoots, 80 mu peach, 40 mu grape, and 40 mu vegetable and 13,000
China fir. In 1990, the farm achieved RMB 794,000 yuan of fish producton value with
560 kg of unit yield per mu and RMB 88,565 yuan of other production value with products
of 56,500 kg fruit, 12,400 kg bamboo shoots, 8,782 kg vegetable and 19,255 kg soybean
or oil crops.



- 22 -
17.        Feed Mill: The prqject has built fourtee feed mills. All of the mis have
been put into operation except two mills in Shanghai and Nanchang caused by Holnd
ectruder supplier's unsuccessful instlation and tesng.
18.        Trade Center: Seven trade centers were plamned to be esbed  at
appraisal. While a part of the engineering of Hangzhou center ha yet to be compted,
the other six trade centers have been put into operaion engaging In net, fish medicine,
feed, and fish wholsale or retail. Under the background of tie deepening of economic
reform and intensed marlet compedtion, some trade centers have enlaged their
operation scope, which was beneficial for fte development of trade cente. On the
premise of serving fisheries production, tihe project trade cents will continously enlarge
business scope and improve management.
19.        Technical Service Center: A total of eight technical service centers have
been completed. The technical centers had trained more than 60,000 participants in
recent years and provided information, advice and guidance for fish fam.
20. The project has largely increased the fish shared per capita in eight project cities.
The project employs 33,184 rural labors of which women make up 10-15%. The
establishment of the project has provided advanced fisheries technology extension over a
wide region and liberad some districts from povety.
F.  IaniX a         m
21.         FPO: As a leading body and coordinator, the FPO has well filled its
functions. Under the PO's efforts, MPOs orgnized many missions to vWisit other citis
to exchange experiences both on project management and production improvement.
22.         Leading and Implementing Organization: Each city has set up a Project
Coordination Committee (PCC), consisting of represenives from provincial and
municipal level technical and financial ags, such as the Planing Commission,
Agriculture Commission, Bureau of Finance, Bureau of Fisheres, and Agricotral Bank,
chaired by a deputy mayor. On behalf of the PCC, a fisheries project office within the
municipal Bureau of Aquatic Products (BAP) managed the daily aspect of project
implementation. Each project county or district and township set up Ls fisheries project
with professional staff, chaired by deputy county or township chairmen. Each cold store,
feed mill and technical or trade center had set up its special group to manage te
engineering construction with quaifi and experienced staff. The various levels of project
offices were adminisrd by the local BAP so tha the project was smoothly implemented
under the supvision of the fisheries departments.
23.         The Municipal and County Project Office and Township Project Construction
Headquarters have played an important role in the smooth implementation of the project.
The MPO designed the project implementation progrm and has taken many measures to
improve project implementation. The CPOs were responsible for overseeing construction,
tansfefing credit, inspecting engineering quality, arranging production, preseting



-23 -
progr  reot and financal repr to the FPO. Under the ladership of MPOs, CPOs
carried out engineing construcion, coodiated between rdated department and
supeised constrion quality. Townip Engineei  Headqr directly organzed
pond building and was responsible for solving problems in onsructon, presenting
progress reports as well as assisting fish farmers to carry out producdon after pond
constructio.
24.        Construction Management: The FPO has laid down a Ptoect Program and
Constructon Regulation to strengthen mnagement. n addition, the FPO organized two
missions consisting of experts with backgrounds in enoning and fisheries to supervise
project ponds and support facilites construcdon. The reult of the nspcti was reported
to each city's PCC so as to improve its pond building.
25.        Credit Management: In the project, we carried out the principle that who
used the credit is to be responsible for repayment and bear te foreign exchange rsk. The
FPO laid down a Project Financial Management and Accounting Method to manage project
expense. The FPO organized several missions consisting of economic and financial experts
to supervise the prqect and evaluate financial affairs, and give honor and reward to those
units with good performance. The Audit Department continuously supervised the project
and made conclusions at each year-end. The State Audit Program made general inspections
and presented the summarized audit report to the Bank.
26.        Project Materials Management: Material management was emphasized in
the project. With the large quantity of goods and materials, involving many oganizions.
coordination was an important task. The FPO laid down a Temporary Regulton on
Material Procurement and Managemet, as well as a Guideline to Meral Inpeon,
Acceptance, Installation and Claim. With approl of the World Bank, the FPO organized
international competitive bidding for a large quantity of goods and materal.  The
planning departments of the project cities listed local mateials for civil worls into the state
supply plans.  Construction contractors purchased other mateials.  The imported
materials and equipments were delivered at the harbors of Shanghai, Guangzhou, Dalian
and lTanjin.
27.        Management of Production Technology and Operation of Fish Farms:
During project implementation, fisheries projects at different levels emphasized both
engineering construction and technical training on production, as well as setting up model
farms. Project management departments sent technicians to the fish farms to provide
technical service and to contract ponds with technical targets. Since the project ponds
were put into operation, the EPO canried out a High Yield Technology Extension Project
to sread high yield techniques to project sites. To promote modern production methods,
the FPO organized a meeting to discuss operaton and  angent of project farms, to
encourage fish farm management that is beneficial for training f3rers, extending new
species, and applying advanced farming technology and management experiences. The
FPO extended the experiences of a project farm of Chaoyang District, Beijing City. Its
main contents are as follow:



-24-
a.   The farm was an economic entity with independent operation and accouning
and holding sole economic responsibility;
b.   To promote the cultural and technical level of farm employees;
c.   To examne tuhee targets of Water Surface Production Rate, Labor
P,vductivity, and Capital Accumulation Rate;
d.   To strengthen management on pgamming, labor, production and finance.
28.        In addition, the FPO compiled some management experience materials into
a brochure to send to fish farms as a reference. After perfecting far  magemt,
economic benefits of project fam  wiUl be further improved.
0.  World Bank Perfrmae
29.        The China Freshwater Fisheries Project was the first re scale fisheries
project in China finmced by the World Bank. The Bank has made a good performance
during the project implementation. Practices have proved that the support to the China
Freshwater Fisheres Project was a correct decision and in accordance with China
agiculture development. The financial support of the Bank has improved and brought
along local input on the consuction of freishwater production bases and operation costs.
The incras of freshwater fis1; fkom the project production has played an important role
in serving city consumpfion needs and enriching the rural areas so that the target of
relaing the difficulty of citizen's taking fish has been reached.
30.        The supervision and support to the project from the Bank,was sufficient.
Duing the project cycle, the Bank sent nine missions to visit project sites or review the
project prgrs. The mission members have put out many valuable suggestions and
guidance, both on project implementation and production. As esfimated at appraisal,, the
project canied out the traditional frming method, polyculture, in the south and a new
farming method in the northern areas. Practices have proved that both the two methods
achieve good economic results. In view of the problem exising in operation and
management of trade centers and cold stores, the Bank officer suggested to run a training
course for managers of these facilities. The FPO has successfully conducted the training
course. I is believed that the support facilities of the project wclld give full play to
economic and social benefits by the trning and other efforts.
31.        The requirement for intemational competition bidding for procurement is
correct, but it could result in equipment with poor quality and low price winmng the
contract award, since the price factor is given a larger percentage in bid evaluation than
the technical ftor. For instance, some world leading suppliers could not get the bid
award on account of higher prices in the competition for procurement of extruders, and the
bid was awarded to a Dutch supplier on the basis of price. After installation, many
technical functions of the equipment provided by the Dutch supplier didn't reach the
requirements of the bid document. The Dutch supplier was not serious in equipment
tesing and installation. This resulted in two mills in Shanghai and Nanchang not being put
into operation and caused a large economic loss.



-25 -
32.  The China Freshwater Fishedies Pect was plemented aainst a background of
declining marine fisheres resources and low per capita fish conion n China.
Following the targets In the State 7th Five Year Devdeopment Plan, the project has
established complete freshwater fisheries production bases in the project cities and made
a significant contribution to adjusting the ral industrial suct  and completng the Stae
Development Plan. Practices proved that the eight proect cites own better conditions on
land resources, farming technology, economic foundation and oraniziona ability. Each
project city has made large -fruitful works on the project's formulation and preparation,
which are important fcors for completing the project and achieving good economic
benefits.
33.        Support from Governments in dfent level and qualified and stable staff
is a very important condition for successfully implementing the project.  It has large
advantage that the project is managed within fisheries department, because the BAPs in
diffent level are familiar with fisheries production technology, market supplying and
operation as well as management. Therefore, it is easy to find out problems and solve
problems, Such a management system has contributed a lot for successful completion of
the project.
34.        With huge popuation and relevant few arable, freshwater fisheries project
should firstly develop local non-arable land. Locatng at nver mouth, Shanghai and
Hangzhou had built more than seventy percent of ponds on reclaimed land. Beijing,
Shenyang, Harbin and Nanchan mainly constructed their ponds on low-lying marshlands
that seep there for many years. Chengdu project management authority emphasized to
use the advantages on engineering designing and farming technology of water conservency
and fisheries dartment build more than eight percent of ponds on riverside.  Locating
in hilly area, Chongqing set their fish pond in mountain valley, using locl fieldstone.
35.        The project involved eight major cities with large scale and investment. It
has some difficulties to implement, coordinated and manage such a project. During the
whole proceeding of the project, FPO taken DCA and On-lending Agreement between the
MOA and prject municipalities as legal documents, and SAR as well as Project Feasibiity
Study Report as foundation for implementing. Based on acal situation, FPO laid down
engineering management methods, financial management method and accounting methods.
Those regulations made unified action in eight cities. After the engineering completng,
FPO paid attentions to technical input and production technology through holding training
course. In 1990, FPO organized project cities to carried out High Yield Technology
Exnsion Project financed by MOA. Obvious results have achieved by implementing this
technical project. Up to 1991, total 78,000 mu ponds participated in the extension project
had achieved 45,000 tons of production with 583 kg of unit production per mu. Through
extending high-yield technology to whole project sites, the production level should be
firther promoted.



26-
L   1l
36.  Some prject uitu ame to saesg. The amount of projet sites in appais was
865. Aual t  was hxased up to 1,233 for avoidig to occupy aamb  land. The
enlment of situ brught some difficuties for project management.
38.  since lakng  peiences of        ional bi g, we bad not masered strict
technilstandard to some equts. This made some equipments with low price and
poor win the bidding, together with the technical for only tabo up thirty pernt in
eclato.



-27 -
PART m. STATISTICAL NFORMATION
1.   Related Bank Laas and/or Credits
LoeAlCredit                         Ye" of
Title          Purpos               ApproVal satus  Camete
Riral credit III Credit for rural on-tfa  1988 OWui  Similar deelps for fishponld
end industrWl ativittee             used in tis project
Rural Credit IV  Credt for rural oa-fSaw   1989  Ongoing S8mir dsigl, for fisbponds
and Industrial activites            used ia thi project
2. Project TImetable
Item                                   Date                         Date
Planned                      Actual
Identification                          u/a                         04184
Preparation                             n/a                         04/85
Appraisal Mission                        n/a                        09/85
Negotiations                             u/a                        03/17/86
Board Approval                          a/a                         05106/86
Credit Signature                        n/a                         09/26186
Effective Date                           12126/86                   01126/87
Closing Date                             06/30/91                   06/30192
Completion Date                          12/30/90                   12130/91
Source: Project Supervision limetable and te Project File.



-28
3. Cret      b e   ($ miio)
0.0   0.0   5.3    3.0    5*   .0 37.  .0   05.9   51.0   57,0   40.0  -
Aifual     ~~4.0   * 0.4 19.5 21.5 054s6 34.63.0 6SJ 45.6 63. 6 5.55 is."5  4.0T
Lotne) a* S
.f3.u.at.  at&  0 646 465  SO  140  111  140  11  Us8 110  I19  1A0  1
4.  roject      _t
Indicators                          Appraisal Estiate       VCR Estimate
Area of nw poad. (ha)                    11,103                11,178
Area of Improved ponds (ha)               6,074                 6,082
number of fi8h fams                         865                 1,223
Yields (t/ha)
Beijing                                   6.0                   8.9
Chengdu                                   6.8                   6.8
Chongqin&                                 7.5                   7.5
Hangzhou                                  7.5                   7.5
Harbin                                    4.5                   4.5
Nanchang                                  7.5                   7.5
$hangb.ai                                 7.5                   7.8
Shenyang                                  5.2                   7.2
Average output price (YIkg)
(in 1986 constant value)
Beijing                                   2.58                  2.25
Chengdu                                   2.67                  2.32
Chongqing                                 2.67                  2.76
Hangahou                                  2.37                  1.89
Harbin                                    2.81                  3.17
Nanchang                                  2.24                  1.98
Shanghai                                  2.45                  2.24
Shenyang                                  2.58                  2.75



-29
S. FRqject Costs and nw _ing
A. PrqjscCoo.
s~~~
Loa    wo  xt          &041Fr=                  Ac    For xxc
coats  Cost,  Total Cost    Costs   Total Cou   Coot   Total
...-0 m)------- ---$----            u -------   -------- ($ )e......
Pond Devloq_et            86.0    20.8  106.8                            98.7      23.9  123.5
Suort WactiLt.            12.0     5.7   17.7                            15.6       7.4   23.0
VetelAs & Ooustruct<n
Eqil4.t                  1.5    16.9   18.4                             1.4      15.5-  16*9
Ptoductlo  mateu        ala 
Klqu4mt                  5.4     2.2    7.6                            10.4       4.3   14.7
Ttalning & Ttacalcel
Aasiatanc                0.3     0.5    0.6                             0.3       0.4    0.7
first Tear foducton
Cost                                                                   0.8       0.0    0.6
Pbyntcal Coontiaenclea    9.4      3.9   13.3
Price Contingeactis       23.1    10.0   33.1
Total               137.7    60.0  197.7                           J t .1    51.4  178.5
B. ProetP1nno
P     dlann esed
Souce                            (Credit ARree3mt)       lA          7lb     _      ...d
(SDR000)  ($9000)  (SDR000))  (SDRI'00)  (               °°°00) )-000)f
IDA Enpeaditure Categorcl.
1.  CivIl worke under Part A       17.92                 24.45       25.01      25.6
2. Equipmentt materialo
and vebiale.
(a) Construction materials    6.24                   4.38       4.38        4.4
3b) Jeedoill & cold stores   2.87                    2.63       2.63        2.6
(c) Cou ctiwt        equip S
vehle.                  19.39                 11.08       11.21      11.3
(4) Production quipment
aterial.                2.35                  8.84       8.38        7.6
3.  Trasi4"g and Consultata         0.62                  0.62        0.39        0.3
4.  Unallocated                     2.61                  0.00        0.00
xchange rate fluctuation                                                     0.2
TotaL IDA                      2..2.00                          52.00       2.00   "I
Domestic
Provinciwa  soweramont.                      7.6                                        3.9
Munic4pal goernmeata                        63.8                                       50.4
Couty & district sovernmont                 24.4                                       15.2
Towusfhip                                   41.9                                       42.9
Total                        ~~~~~~~~197.0                                Z3
&I 04J21L89
&  11/01m



-30-
A. bIus Deodt
Apza±aaZ     b:Saated at      8ettSted at nu
1I1Mst       CLo.a Date         Delopsaut
Iuow.usuul pwodvotto (C)              05,000          90,590             93,500
lumbet oS feus..                      30,000          253305             25,303
of tith                            I S   fdlt  1 600-1,100  1.500       1,SOO
B. _oooul ap
8coul RAUS, of Retu                    Amrloal Zstlakt                Actuat
(New)     (Improved)     (NOV)     (Improved)
loud Development
Nolilag                                22.6          39.7       30.4          78.5
boagndit                               23.9          31.0       22.4          44.1
Choemins                               22.7          36.6       30.8          p100
Eaunghoe                               35.1          53.5       25.2           47.6
Narbin                                 24.9          20.9       15.6           12.4
1bcking                                29.8          61.4       12.2           40.5
8baughud.                              33.1          46.4       27.3          39.0
Sh.uyaug                               21.7        -28.5           -
oedmillle                               38.0                       -0.75 to 18.5
C34 s*tow.                              U3.0
C. 7iraa. kpAc
FSianal4 Rat.e of Ratur                        l ntum&          Actual teestmatead)
(NGW)     (mrove )       (New)     (Improved)
Pond Dew.lopueat
leijing                                16.1           31.3      19.7           51.7
chesdu                                 17.5          16.2       20.0           32.3
oYA 'qlmg                              16.4          26.0       23.3          S4.9
iv Ahou                                18.3          28.3       14.1          29.9
Harbin                                 16.8           19.6      13.7           11.3
Nauchang                               18.3          36.4       11.2           31.4
Sbhaghai                               17.0          25.2       17.8           28.9
Sbayaung                               17.5                     25.9
leeduililo                              33.0                       -14.9 to 21.3
Cold storve                              20.0



-31 -
7. Sttu  of Covmats
-PWA              Sectio.         Subject                                                  8-iO
Cudlt Agisssui   2.02 (b)         Govnmuit to apm  and                 nh                   op
_ ma_ain 1. Sdoo   a SP1.         d. _ 
and coniditions uthh.,y
to MDA.
3.03           Goenetto maintain FPO                                    Coupld
with " functioni and
rspoansibilitymoplbl
to IA.
3.04      Z     oie to provide hd to                                    C
Nanhng, UIlain aW Chagd
13 6=uey Amane.
3.0S           Cuar  out falnins and study 
tours in aoccordnc with pmara
accetbl to IDA.
4.01 3b)       Audit to be                                              Coibmnd  Jin.30 annually  Cowmw
to EDA withi six movths
of and 8..l year.
3obo"1.3       Emlyetof cocaukats                                       Complid
Secon 1        sasacory to IDA
Schedl0  4     On   lopdiog &s for Trd                                  Complid
Pan. 3         and Techn"ca S      Chi
Ceater at 4.S% p.a; otder
sdblams at rates
acceptable to MDA
Schedule 4     PDCs to oprt i.C
Pan. S         acoordance with Vdguiee
acceptb to IDA
Schedule 4     Projec CNtie to prmoid               mar I aNd soft 1    Complied
Pam  10       to MOA seminnu pors                   anmnuy
upoIDs within 2 moxt of
lose of period



-32 -
8. Used oak Resources
A. s.I J*w
(utaff-weska)
step of Project Cycl                                Planed           Rvised           flai
Through Appraisal                                                                     101.6
APPraisl thugh Boa" APproval                                                           10.3
*4oa4 Approval, through EffectivOmss                                                    2.1
superosios                                                                             65.4
179.4
B. MissIons
month/                                          Perfomance
tear Etuber of Days In  Specialisation            latilg     Types of
Persons   Field    Repro"sted             Status lb  Problems L
3:dentificaion    04184    2           15    Fisheries Spec.            -
Economist
IrsappraLsal      06185    4           21    operations Officer
Engtneer
Fisheries epee.
managemet Spec.
Appraisal          09185    6          19    Operations Officer         1
Enginer
viaheries Sec.
managemnt Spec.
Agroindustrie  S"c.
Jinancia Analyst
Suprwieen (1)   02/87    3              5    Operations Officer         I
nglineer
Fisheries asec.
Superision (2)   11/87    4            14    Operations Officer         1
REngee
Fisberis spec.
Economist
su8    4iso  (3)   02190    3          12    Operations Officer         1
Enginer
Pisheries apec.
Staew1*ie   (4)   06/S1    2           13    Operations Officer         1
Fisheries spe.
PC& misson         11/92    3          10    Operatlons Offier
Engineer
lisheries Spec.



-33-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CEINA
FRESHWVATERI FISEES PROJECT
(CREDIT 169-CHA)
BACKGROUND DATA FOR PART I
Table 1: NATIONAL             PRODUT o  ON
Marine Fisheries         Freshwater Fisheries         Total
Culture  Captuse  Total  Culture  Capture  Total  Production
1949             -         -        -         -         -       -    0.45
1952          0.06      1.00    1.06      0.14      0.47    0.61    1.67
1957          0.12      1.82    1.94      0.57      0.61    1.18    5.12
1962          0.09      1.41    1.50      0.31      0.47    0.78    2.28
1965          0.10      1.91    2.01      0.51      0.46    0.97    2.98
1970          0.18     2.10    2.28       0.58      0.32    0.90    3.18
1975          0.28     3.07    3.35       0.75      0.31    1.06    4.41
1976          0.30     3.12    3.42       0.74      0.32    1.06    4.48
1977          0.42      3.20    3.62      0.77      0.31    1.08    4.70
1978          0.45      3.15    3.60      0.76      0.30    1.06    4.66
1979          0.42     2.77    3.19       0.82      0.30    1.12    4.31
1980          0.45      2.81    3.26      0.90      0.34    1.24    4.50
1981          0.46     2.77    3.23       1.02      0.36    1.38    4.61
1982          0.50     3.10    3.60       1.20      0.36    1.56    5.16
1983          0.55     3.07    3.62       1.42      0.42    1.84    5.46
1984          0.64     3.30    3.94       1.80      0.45    2.25    6.19
1985          0.71     3.49    4.20       2.38      0.47    2.85    7.05
z of total
production    101        501      602       34Z        72     40S    1001
1986          0.86     3.90    4.76       2.94      0.54    3.48    8.24
1987          1.10      4.38    5.48      3.47      0.60    4.07    9.55
1988          1.42      4.64    6.06      3.90      0.65    4.55   10.61
1989          1.58     5.03    6.61       4.17      0.74    4.91   11.52
1990          1.62     5.51    7.13       4.45      0.79    5.24   12.37
1991          1.90      6.10    8.00      4.59      0.92    5.51   13.51
1 of total
production    141        45Z      591       341        7S     411    100l
Souroe: Iericdg*Ur YewrbcokD 1991.



-34 -                                  AN= I
Table 2: Fs PRam iN ftojwr Clms
1985  1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   1991  IncDec los
IRIJIJO - Reeail price
Sznrease                           5.991   9.702  21.90X  18.502  4.102  8.50S
Deflator Lk                           1.03    1.11    1.29    1.5S    1.71   1.82
Common carp La                 32             8.00    8.17    7.60   6.80   6.20
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       7.20    6.33    4.91    3.97   3.40       6.302
Grass carp Ls                  2.86           7.50    7.80    7.34   6.47  6.00
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       6.75    6.05    4.74    3.77  3.29       15.10l
Silver & bighead le            1,66           2.6     2.97    3        2.8    2.5
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       2.34    2.30    1.94    1.63   1.37    -17.3n
Weighted average le            2.58           3.53    3.98    3.90   4.00  4.10
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       3.18    3.09    2.S2    2.33   2.25    -12.812
CZINGDU - Retail price
increae                            5.991  10.202  31.102   8.202  12.002 4.002
Deflator /l                          1.03    1.11    1.35    1.59    1.76   1.89
Commao carp Ls                 3.00           5.40    5.20    5.30   5.10  5.50
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       4.85    3.85    3.32    2.90  2.91       -3.142
Grass carp /c                  2.60           5.00    4.70    4.90   4.45   5.25
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       4.49    3.48    3.07    2.53   2.77       6.682
Silver G bighead le            1.90           3.5     3.3     3.2     2.95   3.5
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       3.14    2.45    2.01    1.68   1.85      -2.682
Weighted aerav e  c           2.67           4.20    4.00    4.10   3.80   4.40
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       3.77    2.96    2.57    2.16   2.32    -12.932
:30NGQMI0 - Retail price
iu=roaa8                           5.992  10.202  31.102   8.20S  12.002  4.002
Deflator /b                          1.03    1.11    1.35    1.59    1.76   1.89
PAR
Common carp Lc                 3.00           5.20    5.30    5.40    5.60   7.00
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       4.67    3.93    3.39   3.19   3.70       23.282
Grass carp j.                  2.60           6.30    6.43    6.25   6.60   7.00
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       5.66    4.76    3.92    3.76   3.70      42.242
Silver & bighead Lc            1.90           2.72    3.38    3.1     3.51   4.2
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       2.44    2.50    1.94    2.00   2.22      16.792
Weighted average Le            2.67           3.80    4.24    4.03   4.40   5.22
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       3.41    3.14    2.53    2.51   2.76       3.292



-35                                     ANNEXI
Table 2: (cont'd)
1985  1986    1987    198    1989    1990   1991  InclDec lA
ANJGZBOU - Retail prlce
Increase                            5.992  11.302  23.402  18.201  4.482  6.90S
Deflator Lb                           1.03    1.12    1.32    1.59    1.76   1.86
An
Comomn carp IS                 2.40           2.50    3.00    2.89    2.90   2.90
Adjusted to 1985 prices                        2.23    2.28    1.82    1.65   1.56    -35.032
crass carp Lj                   3.20          3.42    3.94    3.78    3.80   3.90
Adjusted to 1985 prices                        3.05    2.99    2.38    2.16   2.10    -34.47Z
Silver & bighead la             1.80          2        2.6     2.6      2.6    2.7
Adjusted to 1985 prices                        1.79    1.97    1.64    1.48   1.45    -19.341
Wei8hted average lc             2.37           2.72    3.47    3.32    3.35   3.51
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       2.43    2.63    2.09    1.90   1.89    -20.371
BARIN - Retail price increase         5.99X   9.602  20.70f  16.20S   5.70Z  7.50S
Deflator Lk                           1.03    1.11    1.28    1.52    1.68   1.79
commoa carp lS                 3.40           5.80    6.00    6.00    6.10   6.16
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       5.22    4.68    3.96    3.64   3.45         1.402
Grass carp Le                   2.80          5.00    5.60    5.60    5.40   5.50
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       4.50    4.37    3.69    3.22   3.08        9.942
Silver & bighead j£             1.70          4.64    5.12    4.7    5.1    5.15
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       4.18    3.99    3.10    3.04   2.88       69.552
Weighted average Le             2.81           S.20    5.58    5.40   5.61   5.67
Adjusted to 1985 prices                        4.68    4.35    3.56    3.35   3.17       12.932
NANCBANG - Retail price
Increase                                    5.992   7.902  28.402  18.402  1.802       5.202
Deflator lb                                    1.03    1.10    1.31    1.60   1.75        1.82
Am
Coaaon carp /¢                 2.64           3.80    3.50    3.50    3.20   3.60
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       3.45    2.68    2.18    1.82   1.98    -24.912
Crass carp 1c                   2.64           4.20    4.00    4.00    3.90   4.30
Adjusted to 1985 prices                       3.81    3.06    2.49    2.22   2.37    -10.31X
Silver & bighead Le             1.54          2.9      2.8     2.8      2.8    3.4
Adjusted to 1985 prices                        2.63    2.14    1.75    1.60   1.87      21.582
Weighted average /c             2.24           3.49    3.29    3.25    3.09   3.60
Adjusted to 1985 prices                        3.17    2.52    2.03    1.76   1.98    -11.502
SHANGHAI - Retail price
Increase                            5.992   8.102  20.102  15.90t  6.302 10.502
Deflator /b                           1.03    1.10    1.26    1.49    1.65   1.78
SAR
Common carp /a                 2.29           3.00    3.25    3.20    3.20   3.10
Adjusted to 1985 prices                        2.72    2.58    2.15    1.95   1.74    -24.132
Grass carp le                   3.00           3.90    4.00    3.90    4.20   3.80
Adjusted to 1985 prices                        3.54    3.17    2.63    2.55   2.13    -29.012
Silver & bighead Ls             1.81           2.5     2.65    2.54    2.7    2.8
Adjusted to 1985 prices                        2.27    2.10    1.71    1.64   1.57    -13.302



-36-                                  ARMNI
Table 2: (cont'd)
1985  1986    195?    198     1989   1990  1991 lcIDoc LA
Viaghted avera8a I            2.45          3.60    3,$0    3.67   3.91   3.99
Adjusted to 1985 prices                     3.26    3.01    2.47   2.38   2.24      -8.732
811UN - Retail price
lacrm                            35.992   8.102  20.102  15.902  6.302 10.502
Defltor Lb                          1.03    1.10    1.26    1.49   1.65   1.78
Cammon carp Lq                3.94                  5.80    5.80   5.80  5.60
Adjusted to 1985 prices                             4.60    3.90   3.53  3.25    -17.502
Gras carp le                  2.44
Adjusted to 1985 prices                     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
Silver & bighead Ic           1.75                  3.1     3.2    3       2.85
Adjusted to 1985 prices                             2.46    2.15   1.82   1.60      -8.732
Veigted average i             2.58                  4.72    4.60   4.50  4.91
Adjusted to 1985 prices                             3.74    3.10   2.74  2.75        6.662
GINRAL PRIC 21DICES Li
Retail price. C19"0u100)    118.5 125.6  134.8  159.7  188.2  192.1  197.7
Increase                            S.99S   7.312  18.472  17.85   2.072 2.922
Deflator                            1.03    1.10    1.24    1.47    1.60   1.64
^ Pereentagie  m    or deuease of 1991 price (defbatd to 1985 values) over SAR price
& AdJud to 198 pris by apping each city's r    prfice deflator
h Outpt pri fiom FPO's Table 13-1 of unit yied a  unk prce
i FRom Counay Ecnomic Memorandum (6119/92), Table 12.1



so s      " t      s        f      se       rs      :9 °       4 I16)
°eos 60    0s9-6T   °o6-C   CtC-  tT¢-   tC-   t°-;pead Ase6sn
t6s t  fWZ T   tif t    ZS0 ~~t   to t        §" T   *                   Po"t/Sj:
90'9t    09"'t  69'St         Vs  £59 TO6            09        MM          (o66 ?)
cell91£6   OM9        191    'll?    .009    a*5         mIS1%                -=   £z..1ITS
*5t-Is'L OtoI 6t 9-O    9S-                 0Tlt    t 9P                           *    t
O'909    09'619  00'091    os'5L   9'5LV    0559   *' 9      16                   C?66?)d   T1vnm
-   z-n       T-53      S-6t   69Z9   tSt   19£            flO'?  I-LL                        U    l  Uml  t t -1
d-tt ~    ~     36' n5'    69n                     26'      31 St0'            ISIL t-) t                    tab ,,ts°t1 BI     s.
S-St?    55?   39-'t  t-          t S-Ct t-9t'    9t99'                OZ6t                 A W
19        6919            195     303T      9969    13£:t      MUI                          `*M   son
t66' 99 o?t  t0 t   t t9                     * t9     t9o      lL t  1 
669'S      66t'?     S3'   IWS§    010S?  nL'          15' *    9t11S                  t6t)
on    oT       S        9t6  I 0t zg t    t@ t    wil OS 6S        "Mi G(t66T-
U |   to        "        g t    t96    tn  T              itSZ                                    Oa** T   o$
990'n t     f9'?     19e 3t5 TTI               Mot t 0          190'? itnitt  t
39'16  19'83    5IVt*   19*£    909"t   £1£      0?       9.3(9.'tfw'1a  69DUNatS
W*9       9W?        51*?    9?*l Ott? 0  ng gtt C t "   Sit 6t0    Tal    90tO  t *S
Jn ~~~~~~~t    us's    mt   MC§T US                                                                            inalsOt ".0 { tt;t C !  o 4
Xt     0 0     ",It t       " C g    t    ttS  Il g                  t"t                                      (11 *    --t-T^
"16    "          ls_  "I           lt WE'         41t        tltt
S5*90?   ?901'?1     V'O?   99'S       i LISt  L1i     OGC?    59'IS?      31 Tu       3303m!~
clas "lo        clt        92       ITi    St   oNt   af           s    o at                                  MR  -  V
-Lf~~ -
IT      slit         It5      clot    6'61     Clot   £3lo     'sli     c*lo                     (318619 tWs) met   us
Clot      $99        Vi  I'Ll    '?     9'S?     16?0  6'01       9':      'S:I                                   own   WU
$15       910S       t05     100      OtO   91'        30'0    p0                    hIA-SJt0         4 1.02 3 
(1661) sumn100 exL*AV
I'SOt            l £'9  1'       S.'    CI9      9SI      I5 t      4 III.n
(166?)                       "VP3S'   i
039         505    OCt5        053      555  9103    9'53    9'99       VsS'                      pd 4LIe it"
53'S       "ItS      96 9    SCIt    II'S    WI'    0S'S   69'S 
Ott53        S?'999    0on       569    lt     Olt" S* 99 C5 fit
090'?  853  611  559  0L6  £L5  550     05£        a'ILTV 0= 164"NA
16'? 61'       661'   030'   906        tic'    30n       Ott'       UhLI"
£1'?        L0' 11     9'?uql    MSot   £1't  061'  916'?   639'3         1a'15
59?9      "I          Ut W'9  @v'£  95            "I M3           go'I   6II'Satwpa)s" 
sYaly of-It se                                       tosi&xv   ZUUVMZ#: S
T'~~~~RRV                                  - ~~LE-



.38 -
Tab  3: (cot'd)
w, F    <t"1)    ,   7   1.s  1.:    ~~~~~~~~~*.    1.2  1.7    1.S    1.3
IWEEs,i~J4hIIuSI   I,                     1.:    1.         . 2. 8        1.      *.        0.1
ID. - Iin#m.4                  ~~~~~~~~~Si.)   8243    82.5  19.7    13.4   21.3  28.48 3j
IDt - siwg4 s6AI         133               81.8    144       8.  8   S     1.4   84.4  } 5.3
Ec d mtu.4i ( 854
20,000  22,00   19,0   5.70U  2.0                 ,        0,0      2,0     144,
CMl                              TImMm     14    1,61       1.98   1S1 1    ,111 317  61.720  13.7      188        ,8
ffta Go"   low MAPsI'M    S6.6M   41s.i  28.19*             244 So22,749U  25406    34,74     20,02    2184s
Teo"       *Mt_ SweS pais        1'0      14,54    a4        ,16  13,810   ,78 7to     9.8  20 904      Sm       78,737
hr..                                      so0.0    1a       S.00  81,000   5,004  13.000    28.000               *1.100
Ceet                             TIm        :mm   1.498   Ij.OSO o12   14147    741 o0o                            80o
i.        0. 70  aa.s.I * 79.1 0417.13114 2 0    14,25                         1 314
so                155    1413   1283   18220    130            2        1
44t"l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~   ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,"io    _M (S  _i _f _= _4 IM I_=     U 



'39' -NNE
Table 4: CoNVZloN FACYOM
PCR                            SAR
FISK FARMS
Investment Costs
Karthworks - Ch.ugdu,
Chongqing, Rangshou,
Nanchaug & Shanghai               1.30                           0.78
Rarthworks - Beijing,               1.30                           1.30
Harbin & Shenyang
Slop, protection                    1.16                           1.31
Pond lining                         1.16                           1.28
Water supply & draln                0.79                           0.78
Flood protection                    1.30                           1.00
Power                               1.20                          00.87
Roads                               0.93. 0.90
Farm bu .dings                      1.00                           0.95
Land cc-,pensation                  0.00                           0.00
Vehicles                            1.00                           0.99
Other                               1.00                           1.00
cement                              0.91
Timber                              0.79
Steel                               1.12
Road transport                      1.10
Overatia Costs
Fingerlings                         1.00                           1.00
Manure .                            0.50                           0.50
Fertilizer                          0.83                           1.40
Feed                               0.91                            0.70
Chemicals                           1.00                           0.90
Power                                                              1.35
Diesel                              0.78
Tools                               0.90
Maintenance                         0.70                           0.91
Wages                               1.00                            0.50
Management                          1.00                            1.00



-40-                          A L
Iable 4: (Cntt'4)
nsMIL AMD COLD 8
Leand camp                        0.*00
Civil vork.                       100
Kqtdp.uit                         1.00
Iuntallation                      1.00
VgbcSl.                           1.00
Cout mter                         1.02
Op.ratla4 costs
I" materils                       0.91
Wages                             1.00
mel                               0.78
Wator & por                       2.00
Trasport                          1.10
Packagin                          1.00
Managemeat                        1.50



islat  Ult"    a,"                   "lot                 U1       WT         w       W'        IRs Io0V
<~~~~~~~~~~~r_    gFm    a: 1- sn  Ti;:;   ;;                            a.;:       W.n DI+J TM                          i  h-W K O-USB              s-o 'ou           V    I
jig~~~all   0t'"t utn" X    o's u-nc                      0i0e     "It        "I       its       IS*                It's      "t    tel                           oc  n!
u ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ w w9*                                          we w7               we      tr@      ge                u3a li lgE);2i aimi ;    3z   ;  Z;R wt*l}t*zs
*~m  £0                                                                                          W;e       WO       we       wes   weT
__5e; wnt    nn!   i;:; irs          W                                                           ore -r. ;:W  W;T  s  Wi    T:O  WFr;   w.gr
=la W  SOW!1                    StVs      U90         l        Wio      Dole                we                 Wet-    ire                     Z@9£.s
grt      sl Ui1            "It                 ire n5-               WS e-            91 00g 00-0        GG0       Of's    tg             zm *
I     S te-s   WST    n-Io         eo,*      o         "In-s    a-I    nS "It       wt(  o    n-o0.0   ooo    ogto os 3"o
ult           a's      S,         ,       St@'scl ti  "It                         W-        tit-S.Stn            oX  otI  S t-t   19 "
s  E 5 t ** t Zi W asa es*g                          :PL       eee      we                 or    i   l;erWg    £011                    '2li5 ;P 
WM       WM        are:l-g           ea        erol     _w*gQ      er        u*g      Wg         irori      *t*    949q     WV?
nots    Ulut    Uwo    Ugo          00-0       S00'                "-O                00-0       e00e-   Colo      n-o      all            _sSwR tan          b
UlmS   XS¢Stt   n-l    St-           00-0                          "It                 we O      eo                trt      "IC 
* ~ ~~9 n-n           a      i£* Ot   nWo                510 eo-                       ge OS                        96. OI eoi                                   h36Sto  S-1*
ir"'      19i01    St, U    99I O-t            @900 00-0                              or*9        0i               TS,* S-O  U'O"A 0a-e
si un    *9J0t   tCet   tole    o*1-                               00-L  eeL  9SO  t-  01         9       1990     "lo    100- ff-O It
si*gi    wmu      OPS    Soes    6l0t         Ceol      0950      £o        tile     oei        WIr     tole       Wo    9Vit"*"AUSTOPV
Watl   D¢nt   "I C           -St    "It                  Ot-p       "Is      tC-t     OOt        00-0     Ol-t     WC    CT$-*m  so
Ulm      Ulm       "Ist n-m         "0t        60      n           tilt      00-0     60-O               so0-   *n teollT                                    P
nilt    Will  tU*O1    W1t    0n@ 09.                    "11 9 -              t-       "IC       "-9      sLi 96Z9    ettL
X'§Ot   ut-"t   "It    solo          ul   tOsl                     99         90   9C-t          6-o  n  "0  o91            "It             MfC-11a  ------
ufo     f PIK     CLIO   eus          t-O        ot-O              n-o       us o                ".       "lo      0gi    W*SL
XOM!    LlSt   f"It l*        "      tt90  015   * O  t      -Lt             9110 I 9-9 09-t Ul             -L    U90       St"                  an     f     van
Utt t xtO    elt   O        S-O OC-   OV-1     ig-       0OS-       "t       "It      Golf                                                                   -t s-T9X2-§ tC-S tt 4t 
ntlell   Xtl"l   WS    wia    9iS"It             Wf*   "sup t.g              tilt      " lo a   mtqs      "It      "In-ot St-Ct                            &
S  19   U*0 2               0SS     $4twl I                                                                             91 99  90 "t  69 O s  ddV     tdt    -
39-009    s-on    oz OLIO    09w9 g                                                              onso zsoz  v a    o0       OO-t w vpYwn:  POTS
#I-*g Ulm          s-Kt Ct-St        Ole       so'   0      9      It'l      "IXt     t St 60I   of's* -tit        teC-t   "lot                  ** s I Tdt$
Ulm      alai   "-g         009911                                            il      I9o-n      "IsO-tt                t    t'41t                gol"k E"Pt
tS "       -I      n-Kt    n-s    W  n wlg     CC-la     "In       It'l      n-It        It n    Ollth    Ul"      "Its   ISI t
~~~9 it)t* g ¢tfgw,
4     u,0d"    P*.s                                                           us   20,1            v
9=3Q waw  am (ILVq   : OA



Table 6: SummARwE FINNc,AL RBmN io NEw Poms
2          5         4          5       4-10         11        13        is        14       15-V        so        taw
tN7        19o        1 to"      1990        91
Iw  Cu
32820*                  6.9.          .94        ,5.         01.9                                                                                       3,5.
old  tt,eUtE t,-                                            I".O$,*
16 L                      40.4        20.4        2J0.4      59.5                                                                                       Iv§" S
10tev "I a  Drf         1.2.1        1,6.1    1,1"4.        45.                                                                                         *4.4.
fine" faettAO               2-2       2#.2 a0.                0.0 1Oo
low                       *"-4       1,0.8        446.1     195.3                                                                                        1W3.4
3                         "o1t          MD4.0     4123.     151                                                                                          1,-5
ern kldlg                  6.9       1,361.0      9n.       174- .0-
3.tr   C*ti1              676.7      1081.6       M5.6      116.1                                                                                         240.
v45el                     856.1      1..          7A        2.3                            65.S   1,W70.5       7.4    $55.5                     O.0   T7.31.
Obr                        40.2       6"9.      1,260.2      5.3                                                                                         2.0.
&4"ftA                110MA        14.M21.5   11.670.4   5.,2                              5.t7D*M2 ?       |     4      5.               !mama
Og.t.6L.a Ca
oprti_ cw
ftwuOUem laOd                                                                                                                                                              1
llg.rlu"              21.5         2,6.1    5, Soma     45700.75 .6   5,551.    7      546     s 5 .        5,667.5   S,6".5    5467.    5.4   102.75.7
1V1                     157.2        561.4      439.2     5".9       444.2     6SS.9     661.9      642.9     661.9     46S.9      "S.9      6S.9   U3,147.0
VeetS.1Aav               204.        56.S       1J7.4     221.5      252.9     216.5     206.1      208.3     In.       ".         Ms        2J.3    S,ti.4
td                    56.21,".2    2,62.4    5,08.5    406.4  64,62.3   62.    4,842.1   4,862.1   4,02.1  64,62.1  4dt0.1   Stems1  *4.9.s
Cb,teFl                  63.0        127.6      202.4     211.1      2n.       285.1     28.1         .1      282.1     28U.1      t28.1      M.t    53,1
1r                      197.4       294.        46.4      506.0      MA.       64.7      654.7     654.7      654.1     654.7      454.        4      11,2.
106                      &619.1       4.7        76.4     121.0      140.1     141.4     11.4       161.4     141.4     141.4      14.4      341.4    2,5si4
kehtse.e.               140.1         7.2       J".9       05.5      4.5       427.1     427.1      427.1     427.1     427.1      427,1     437.1   7,9n7.1
VPeg                    745.2      ,21.4    1,654.1   2,265.4   2.)7.1   2,*473.    2471.2   2,471.    2,471.2   2,471.2   2,471.2   2,4n.2  5OA5.5
_M      t                "A90.9      14".1      1407      222.4      287.4     291.0     291.0      891.0     21.0      291.0      MA.       291.0      ,2t.0
O                       160.3       M91.0       69.       84S.S      607.6     80.4 4A 808.        8.         88.4         .4       00,4*    0.4   15460.2
IAJ.t r.                  9,469.4     U,044    17,240.4  22,221.7  20,122.9  26,921.4  26,921.4  26,921.4  28,921.4  28,611.4  26,021.4  28,611.4  510,24.9
tll rhlp                    94".9      ,"..7   ,271.4   4,400.6   5,S27.4   5,429.9   5,629.8   3,29.8   5,629.6   5,629.$    $,2.    5,429.$  101,718.2
imi                    COW         IS.6-53..0   81.0428   24.7*2. 224j    Ia,5s1. 2  34.551.2  24 . 2S5. .2                      50.2.)



Table 6: (coned)
at I                   3  s      4         5       6.10        It        12        1        14       15.1t      20        tat
1987      1988       198       1900      1891
PIT                    10.3       $34.0       438.8     551.0    627.7    660.4    660.4    660.4    460.4    660.4    U60.4    640.4   11,68.
Mmmt.                   34.2        56.6      101.0     117.9     1237      11s.3    i3.5       153.5     133.5    153.5     133.      135.5    2,455.8
ezttillu.r               2.7         9.7       23.3      28.1      56.0      41.6     41.4      41.6      41.6      *1.       41.6      41.6      M2.
tr.d                   215.6       756.6    16345.0   1,482.6   1,732.0   1,00.4   1,809.4   1,800.4   1,800.4   1,0.4   1,009.4   1,809.4   32.674.3
Gh.b1dl                 15.9        45.0       49.1      76.0      79.9      81.8     81.8      81.8      81.8      81.8       1.8      *1.-    1,493.4
Poftt                   22.0        09.5      100.8     135.5    145.7      15.7    IS$.?    151.7 155.7 M5.                 155.1       5.7    2,3.4
too"                     4.8        12.1       23.6      34.7       6.7      37.6     $7.6      37.4      37.6      57.6      37.6       7.46     675.2
llda1A1g                20.4        40.2       58.1     0S.2      117.1    116.0      11.0      116.0    118.0     11.0    1U8.0       1.0    205".
V01                     120.9      253.7      343.0     407.1    303.7    517.5    517.5    517.5    517.5         $17.5    $17.5    517. S      ,391.3
_mnauet                 24.1        38.5       80.6      87.0      92.1      93.5      93.5     9u.5      n2.S        .       9.5         .5    1,724.2
Other                   37.9       167.4      187.8     169.5    178.4    178.0       176.0    178.9      178.9    179.0     176.0     171.0    3,444.0
Subtotol              4.8217.4                   3    104  21.AM.0  22.6.?                7  PAM        22.-6.? I          2206.?  22.3206.7  41.A6M.S
137.6      289.4      819.2   1,087.8   1,264.0   1469.9   14"9.9   1,469.9   1,69.9   1,49.9   1,469.9   1,46.    23,64S.0
ToWl Cost             18.112.9    *4.532.4   28.437.6  2t.713.4  231,45.0  2    _.776.6  24$6)2.3  25.547.1  24.461.4  24,15.0  I 6   2376.7  4j q                 *
11*t f_                  (11.479.4)  (10.670.41  (7.415.t8   1.008.9  10.525.)  10,4.6  ,9196.5  0.004.   10.06S.6  10.41.2  10.M6   10774A    11
ithtbut ?rojet
O*put plt                   2.3   1 51.         t,048.5 5165.1   1,17.9   1,176        .9        1,178. 0 1,16. 9 80   1,1S.9  1,178.    1"., 178.0   2390.2
Operati. Cost              2*6.0       353.5      685.6     780.4     789.0    780.0    789.9      79.0      760.0    789.9      79.      79       14,0U3
Tom                         27.9       4U.1        70.3     82.2      83S        t.S      8.3 83.3  03.                 83.3      3.5      0.)   1*,56.3
Not Ib_a=*                  98.4       169.)      22.6       8.S    305.7    305.7    305.?    i0.? .t7   .             05.7      5.7    805.?       205*7
bt Ceb rim               (11,577.8)  (10,848.7)  (7,708.4)  2,704.4  10,019.6  10,468.9   9,612.6   8,69.4   0,764.1  10,109.5  10,4680   10,468.0  U1,002.
Net Coob rum In Consteat
S1 of 1s86                  , (10,s1.S)   (7,790-.1   (4,576.1   1,947.0   6,17.2   6,117.5   5,79.8   5,2s3.7   5,000.6 6,111.9   61$17.3   6,317.3  7n-672.8
VA(1221                               10,225.6
22                                       18.52



Table 7: SUIIAR74D CNOIc RwwRw 11 NNW POND
%a t      I          1         4        5       4401        it        is        15        14     1OA9        59 
14U pub                 5.40.4    11,044.5   17,20.    2,52.7   M IS,12.9  28,921.   2*8921.4  *8.921.4  28.*01.4  28.9*1.   26,21.   28.9*5.4  516,289.
1ftsti1ag                  945.9     2,60.7    3,751.4   4,408.    $,25.4   5,629.0   5,629.0    AN 52.3 5,29.3   5,428.    5,423.3   5.4294   109.718.)
t~aw                     604455    15,45S.0   2,041.84  24,7222  55,4103.  54,5514   54,551.3  14.551.2  54,55t1.  24,551.2  54,551    24.554I  d1G&.ws.
0581 ft.ee655e         1,174.2       426.0    1,555.3     595.2      -                             ---                                            552.?
1.60 l4Is                415.5       225.0      413.3      45.5       -                  ---                                     -.               1,1.5
Vege 81I 4 Orsli        41.476.    2,047.6    1,50.6.     522.9      --------                                                                     545
Vpi"4 dft.ot.el            1.8        20.?       75.0       0.0      --------9.
rdoft              $M50.9    10554.      579.9     555.9                                                                                   2,MJ5
fA.4                     590.0       448.       495.0     145.5       -                                                -                          2,0W.S
Veumo ZdjAs              728.4     1,281.5      042.1     142.5       -                            ---                                    "*204.
La  empe.gn0-                   0.0        0.0       0.0       -                  -                             --0.0
9.24.1                   654.5     1,110.5      204.3     5284       -         -        654     1."O.5     104A      559.        -          .3    7,91.4
0eb.w                    5M4.        748.9    1,155.5     485.4 6                                                                                  ,5
opmai.m cost
pr.osgl.im POW
Vlqs4uup              10311.5    2,36.1    5,700.?  64,45.4   5,551.5   5,487.5   5,847.    5,447.5   5,47.    5,4"7.5   5,47.5   5,4"7.   1,02,1557
bmWAe                   76.6       160.7      215.1     297.4    522.       552.     552.0    *52.0    552.0       S52.0     52.0    "52.    8075.
1.cttter                11.2       4"J        114.2     183.0    195.5    172.9       872.9    112.9    172.9      172.9     112.9     12.*    5,171.?
7.46                  1,206.3    2,506.4    4.650.?   5,465.0   6,171.9   4,244.    6,144.5   6,244.5   4,244.5   8,244.5   4,244.5   4,244.5  115,129,5
CbemUal                 82.0       127.4      202.0     211.1    270.?    205.       285.1    *85.1    285.1       281.      285.1    205.1    5,1ma.
Pmer              83~~0.8    5)1.5      541.7     594.7    490.2     Si0.?     510.7     510.7    519.7      5)0.7    510.7    510.7   fe.22.
Tw.).                   17.5        42.1       49.2     117.9    178.1    1271.5    127.5      127.5    127.5    127.5    127.5    3*7.5    2,201.7
Kofttoft""       512.1       £95.4      279.2     215.8    297.8    299.0      *M9.      29.0    299.        299.0     *.0    299.0    5,561.2
VWg                    765.5     1,277.4    1,4534.1   212045.    2,411.1   2,471.5   2,471.2   2,471.2   2,142471.2 2,4 71.2 5,  471.2 2,7.    5,455.5
NanaSeSOit              90.9       144.1      140.7     222.4    216.4    291.0      291.0    291.0    291.0    291.0    291.0    191.0   5,281.0
ft%W             ~~~145.2    $U1.       420.0     170.       11.      121.6    111.4    127.6    121.4    117.4    727.4    727.4   15,7).1
?tag.lUvg Wood
tlry             ~~~110.5    554.0      450.0     551.0    4217.    64.4       440.4    440.       440.      660.4    460.4    440.4   11,940.
emate                   17.1        20.S       50.5      59.0      41.0     46.8      44.6      646.      04.3      6.4.      0.       44.3    1,211.9
1frtilltut               2.2         6.0       19.4      25.5      1.5      54.5      54.5      54.5      54.5      34.5.    14.5      *4.5      802.
Weed                   194.2       464.5    1,214.7   1,549.5   1,574.    146".4   1,444.4   1,46".641644.4   1,446.8   144.4   3,648.    29,755.7I
CbmA"I            IS~1.9      45.        49.1      74.0     79.9      81.0      01.0      01.0      01.0      31.      31.9      01.3    1,455.4



ThbIe 7: (ct'd)
low      1   2                      4         5        6-10        1t        12         1s        14      15s-         s0        1b44
,197       los        IN         1990      191
17.1        77.6       76.6      104.1     113.7      131.4     11.4      1*1.4    1U.4        M.4    1U.4          U.4    2,1U.4
tool.                     4.1         10.9       11.S       S1.J      5.0       55.4       15.6       5.6      55.6       55.11     11.6      U.         607.7
Uhtoorsue.               b14.5        28.1       40.7       61.5      81.6      82.6       61.6      12.6      6.6        61.4 6     8.       61.6    1,467.0
VA.                      no.         855.7      54.0       407.1     508.7     517.5      517.5     517.5     517.5      517.      S17.$     51.s      9161.5
_-                        24.1        58.5      O#.4        87.0      92.1      9.5        9S        91.,      91.5       9.5        M.        05.5    1,72.1
Door                     14.1        150.7      169.0      170.6     146.6     161.0      161.0 16.0          161.6      11.0       6.0       16.0    J,09".
Sb16801                 4.41m.      9.1635.    l4.712,g  17.916.4 20 &U. 0  20.626.6  V046.6 20.42J.6  30.d2.f  J!,j34   2464  420                j  5fl£.z3
TM                            0.0         0.0         0.0       0.0        0.   8.0       0.0        0.0            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
tottl Coots           11905.4       A.476.0   17.150.4  21.65.7  *20.0   8A.L66.6  *5.481.9t  *17. 1- J*1.54  312j   26.1.  12,0.   4*4.s4
be-Imum                   III1245)    6.g1 5)-6811.6fl  S,tS-0A   13.2l3   15.4.S  15.0     1*.195.0  13.215-9    1).5S.2  156s1.   gaL.    I*V.5.A
out   Votes                  552.5       565,9    1,o48      8,167.1   1,18.9   1,1      18.     9         1,178 .9   1,1769  .106.9   1,176.9   8,17.9   21,9"1.8           4
Oprtue cost                 203.4       314.8       617.0      20.4       10.9 M   710.9    7I0.9 #       0.9 710  7100. 709                     710.9   1131.S 5
TM                            0.0          0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       9.0        0.0 
at sworn                     148.9       247.4      41.5      464.7      468.0     48.O       46.0      44.O      468.0      4"650     466       466.0      466.0
a4o  r1w                   (.574.6) o    970.0    6.5U-.    4,865.6  11,76.5  15,456.5  1.,00.   11,646.1  11,751.7  10.8   15,456.5 IS ,456    "6.60
34 coob n1w to Ciastoat
7tlo  of 1966 L               211,14.61 (0,*17.6)  (S,$6.4)  So1.1a   7,68.1   0,004 6          .495.7  46,956.6   7,9      7,060.3  it,$.    *,MA   07,9"4
(122)                  11,"6.7
i8.6
.  .                                                                                                                               .~~~~~~~~~~~



Table 8:    MAE FDNcAL RMluRN TO RONSUCI PomNDS
preo"t. bT"
1          2          5         4         S         4-10       1I        is       1i         14       1519        10
1987       It"        19t       1990      1"91        12
dUalt Itoh                2,999.0     7,44S.2   11,497.1  14,140.1  1,111.5  14,61)4   14..    4,818.5  1u6,nn 15t.)             IS,.      £6.81).    mo ,)0s
IIuuU.ra                    313.6       94.1   1.687.)   1,794.0   1,$78.s   1,971.1   1,971.1  I1.971        1,971.1   1,971.1   I,97.1   1,*91.1   8,2.4
211            1        dha£Z      k*MI&       I*Ifdts4  '   .IS.  41  1-84Z*A  ^*   4   1,L4*1  1.a             1  IAl&    "M7"aI  J!aZ.4d 0-610 
s          as
M.74      1,4)2.0    1,6".2      405.0       -         -          _         ,         _         .         .         _       4,4".8
Suiprottim                8MA.      1.01).?      639.4       17.        -         -         *         *         *         .          -         -      1,901
00.0          .0      4.0        5.4       .          _         .         _         _         .         ,          ,           .)
go t" "1      1 aDa f17.1              m7        478.1       4.5        -         -                        -               -         -         -      1,40.5
llud fotlm                 81.5        20           .9       0.0        -         -                           * *          -         -         -        5S-)
tmw                        68.7        6I.2      191.5       37.2       .         *         .         *         .               -              *        5".4
low                        40.4        70.        41.1       2-.a                 -         -         -         -          -         -         -        184.4
Fe=  lAt                 114.7       £14.2      21.1       145.2       -         *         *         *         *          *         *         .2
toad c    t t               *4.2)                  -         -          -         -         *         -         -         -          -         *         4.2
YaMul                     14.5        473.       324.0        4.2            . .          14        473.76   2"S."         6.2            * £198.. 1,24.
Othr                       40.8        61.1       87.7       7.4        .         -                   -         -          *         *
siStit.                J4nIA       3.88.    SLI!*4         E14ZA.a"                                471&71     MA4!       MJ                         USA.fs
a-         cost
ilae     ,              4"2.      1.4 1699.5    2,.9   2,U4.?                 2       2,964.2   2.984-2   2,982   2, 2   2,8.a   1,94.2   S4,91
man.*                    81.9       284.7      82.         92.9     450.      47.       447.1     447.1     44.1       471       4.1       447.1    ,459.0
IertSgm                   4.4        85.3      *87.0      202.5     138.)     156.1     134.1     134.1      1)4.1     14        13.1      134.1    2.10.4
itted                    M.3      1,46.      3,86.4   8,631.0   4,020.2   4,137.8  4*157.    4.*17.   4,157.8   4,157.8   4.1*7.6   457.8   75,761.0
Cin1.1                  $6.7        113.0      135.7      173.6     187.7     194.1     194.1      194.1     194.1     19.1      £84.1     194.1    8,502
er                       90.0       176.2      307.0     885.6      408.7     422.0     422.0     422.0     422.0      421.0     422.0     42.0    7,46.9
11.9        ".9        64.0      6.2       6.3       91.1      91.1       91.1      91.1      91.1      *1.1      91.1   i1,42.
Kolatsomac.6.6.                     207.6      265.4      262.9     280C.     UT.e      267.;    267.6      287.6      U16       267.8     27.6    5,41I.0
VW_$45.3                            910.0    1,150.2   1,588.5   1,616.0   1,46.6   1,646.4   1.4)4.6   1,4)6.4   1,45.6   1.6)6.6 1,      658.4 I0,4-.7
Va.gnat                  27.7        44.?      105.6      114.6     146.0     152.2     152.2     1524       152.2     152.)     152.2     1a.2    2,741t.7
Other                   124.9       80.7       517.5      655.6     700.7     70        710.9     710.09     710.9     710.9     710.9     71o.9    ,0o2o.9



Table 8: (contd)
I         2          2         4         5         4-10      11       12        12       1U        140        *0be
ft7                     "8.0       110.0       M.0      20.4    244         269.4    260.4     20.4      260.4     20.4      294.4   2N404    4,*10.1
Vs.1                     6.6        22.4       32.7      *7.0       8.1     40.0      408       4. "4 "8            40.8      4.        40 8      74
V.tttlsa                 0.5         3.2        6.7      16.1      25.8     25.4      25.4      25.4      23.4      25.4      25.4      25.4     44.2
1e4                    107.4       224.2      40.2      58        58.4      00  600.           600.0    600.0    600.0       4.        400. 10NOW.
Cbeal                   14.6        22.4       28.7    328.0       25.2     S5.3        .S      25.3    32.5        25.2      M5.        2.*     "4.2
Pm,                     24.1        40.0       57.0      75.1     76.6      7.7       77.7        .7      77.7      77.7      77.7      77.7    1,42.4
fools.                   2.?         6.M       iM.      1.8       2.1      21.0      21.0      21.8      n.e       21.o      21.e     21.4      200.2
_atulamme               10.0        58.0       44.2      11.2       .5       M6.2     26.2      M6.       26.2      2.2       26.2      M.        720.
VW                      72.2       117.4      1.4       1.        20.2    20.7    204.7    204.7    204.7          04.7      24.7    204.7    2,700.4
_u_mUl                   2.6         0.        10.2      2.4       20.4      21.2     21.2      21.2      21.2      21.2      21.1      M1.       50.7
Odor                    22.4        20.0       16.8      27.2    46.7       62.7      42.7      "2.        2.7       2.7      42,       42.7    1,I".0
042444*1               WWI         aze-$                           2 Il3 *O  12466.0  12.66.0   PfLad   AsE3  Jbf0jj  1246-60   SA-j -   3UtE
1.                          24.-0      1U.6      46.4    671.7       21-.      077.0    077.0    01.0   7m.0          *77.0    0m7.0 o      7n    17,2.4
Setal Coo"               4,10.5      *.76.0   £4,21.2  12108.4  12,217.6  12,642.0  12,707.4  14,114.7  t1s,76.   15,67.1   2,44#8.   12,40.1  250",0.
&Llff=                      JVAh    £1a_a*L   SLs&t   2,Z4S.7                  S1-4 b.00.0 4-.46             4J7907.6   5.10$.UI  14.    l1eI4  40LaIa
Witbet "Seest
04tpu Talu               1,44.8      ,49".4    5,0ol6   2,450.5  2,724.6   2,747.0   2,747.0  S5,47.0   $,747.0   5,747.0   5,747.0   $,747.0 1 57.2
0pee25 Ce1                 94.2      2,741.2    2,27.7   4,064.5   4,22.   *4,222.0   4,1.0  4*,2-    4*,222.0   4,2.6   4,M.0   4,2.6 70071.0
TAX                         21.8       127.      222.      252.7     20.0    260.0    260.0    260.0          6.0    2"0.0      20*       0.0 4604.4
.Sc S g.                   "40.        820.2    1,401.7   1,260.2   1,751.0   1,262.2   162.2   1,262.2   1,24.2   ,22s-2   1,2"        1,-3  M.O1MS
3.5 cm& n2                (1,102.)   (2#,26.2)  (2,788.)  1,405.4   2,s2.2   2,878.2   2,722.6   2,40.5  2,4"4.2   2,842-1    2,.s   $,08s ",.2
3. Ce tle 1 Cemts
74.t of t1"               (1,007.2)   (1,6420.)  (l,00.0)    049.    1,900.7   2,222.4   2,126.2  1t4        2,06"A   2,20t.7   2.224    ,2.4 21,22.4
C1m2)                   4,440.7
m33                           21.6S
,  - -                                      -                                   >~~~~~



ZW isW**b1t1
-~~~ ~               -        54                          - - 2t3                                fi i ;i|_i
is   es     ..ss        *         l  ,§ ie   ;. .     b*       
Y =ig;;t  |;3 il |       i            *    * . . ee   . .e*;     1        
) w ~~~~~~~~*                                              z;is¢ 
-         e    is a            i"i                            isut aggF            ,   S ae:S
*£"eE i" *                           '                                  k' 't '            te,l _    
is"          iXs     '. -                                                     -                      N            * t ! 
RV~~~~~~I .it - 8is



Tlob 9: (t'¢(l
Prjet lee
A         2          *         4        5         4-t0       I        t2       *s        14      -to         0
1*         96       1it"       1990     1I1         12
Ny                      Se.0      II*.       1660      240.4     34s,    20*4       269.4    26.4      269.4    20.4        69.4    2M.4   4,91O.1
-inrs                    2.4       11.2       16.s      16.       1o.1     26.4      2.4       20.4     20.4      20.4      20.4      20.4    $24.1
I.etllltw               -0.4        2.4        5.5      12.4      21.4     21.1      21.1      21.1     21.1      21.1      21.1      21.1     6"0
food                    97.6      212.1      4544      506.2      2.      546.6    S4.        54.6    5".I       546.      546.      546S   1,06s
Chaleel             14.6        22.4        .?        .         .2S. .S  .  25.5  22.)     5.5        5.      55.5      55        i5.s     6642
I6.        21.3       44.A     56.6      59.6      0.6       60.6      4.4      60.6       0.6     ".6       66.#    1122.9
S   .Le                  1.5        1.        12.2      1.0       19.9 1U.6          19V.  1UA           19.6    1A         19.6      9.6      551.2
_l         26tA4      26.9      26.      25.5      2S.4      25.4     25.4       5.4      55.4     25.4      35.4      5".4
nw                      72.5      117.4      1)7.4     16.6      52.1    29.7    204.7    204.7   M*0.           24.7    *".7        20.7   2,760.
M       a.A                         0.6       19.2      20.4      2.4      21.2      51.2      51.2     51.2      S1.2      $14       52.2     55.7
062ev                   260.2      $5.9        5.1      51.      $7.5    $56.4       M4        964      56.4      5A.       "A.        .      1,§09
terd                      0.0        0.6        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.9       0.0      0.0       0.0       6.0
mS*L}n*               4uu16.4     b|°t       &       11.6  J12.                        11."0.8                                     j.,"A2
-IEin               J~.71    E1.o.6£    flUdk  '.5672 t        U0   1.1n.5   U.                                          MA E1   h   LW6 l1 4  UU.d
Virbot Projeet
*p0 Tab*                 1,45.6      ,6."4    5201.6   5      S.  5,1.6   ,747.0   2,747.0   $,747.0   5,740 5,747.0 57-.    ,1770 50  ,.0  62,01.
opeptl Ct                  694.7    2,4 7.      ,229.0   5.6   2,01.5   2,01.5   501.5   ,6.$5  5,6010    2,01.5   2,)4    5,0.5   71,67.
in                          0.0         0.0       0.0       0.6       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        .        .         9.
Mt   _                     62.1     1,252.4    2,0.    1,6"6.7   1,5-    1,0-.   1,5.5   1,4"5.5   I,9".5   1,9.5   1,4.5   1,95.5$   6,9.
Uet Cas v1               (1,m65.6)   (2,)s2.    (46.7   2,367.5   4*,19.7   5,179.0   5,65.6   4,7.9 4        ". 4,94.0   5,141.6   5*176  5,176.0   77,41.4
not Cask ne Lu cametaut
true. of 1966            (1,14.)   (1,975.5)  (1,4)5.0)  1,29.5   2,171.9   s,022.6   2,926.5   2,M2.    2,609.    2,002.1   8M02.    5,022.    45,18.2
WEln)                     9,6O.0
US                           sl5:s
. .



