Domusm ao
The World Bank
FOR OFFICL4AL USE ONLY
Report No. 5976-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJWECT
April 7, 1986
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
U'S$1.00      -  Y 3.00
Y 1.00           US$0.33
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)        - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)   - 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)     - 2.47 acres
1 mu               - 0.067 ha
1 ton (t)          - 1,000 kg
- 2,205 pounds
1 kg               - 2.2 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABC           - Agricultural Bank of China
BAP           - Bureau of Aquatic Products
BFA           - Bureau of Fisheries Administration
BOF           - Bureau of Finance
CPO           - County Project Office
FDC           - Fisheries Development Corporation
FPO           - Fisheries Project Office
GAIC          - General Administration of Industry and Commerce
ICB           - International Competitive Bidding
ILS           - International and Local Shopping
MAAF          - Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
MACHIMPEX     - China Machinery Import and Export Corporation
MPO           - Municipal Project Office
PCC           - Project Coordinating Committee
RCC           - Rural Credit Cooperative



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      People's Republic of China
Credit Amount: SDR 52 million (US$60 million equivalent)
Credit Terws:  Standard
Relending
Terms:       20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 4.5% p.a.
interest, and foreign exchange risk to be borne by the
project cities.
Proi ect
Description:
In support of the Government's program to triple
production of freshwater fish by the year 2000, the
proposed project would expand and develop intensive pond
culture in the vicinity of eight major urban centers. It
would introduce into each project area an integrated
fisheries production, extensior. and marketing system
operating on a fully commercial basis. Overall, the
project would improve 6,100 ha of existing ponds and
establish 11,100 ha of new ponds on land unsuitable for
crop production. It would provide equipment, vehicles,
and support facilities, including 14 feed mills, four
cold storage plants, four overwintering facilities, a
hatchery, a vaccine factory, and seven trade centers.
The project would strengthen fisheries research and
extension services through the provision of teclmical
assistance and training and the construction and/or
equipping of eight technical service centers. The
technical assistance and training component would also be
used to upgrade the qualifications of project staff to
implement the proposed project and further fisheries
development activities. At full development the project
would produce annually about 85,000 tons of freshwater
fish and 75,000 tons of fish feed and would provide an
additional 7,100 full-timie jobs in rural areas
surrounding the cities. The project faces no significant
technical or management risks.
This document has a estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
Local       Foreign        Total
- - - - - - (US$ m) - - - - - - -
Pond Construction            86.0          20.8         106.8
Support Facilities           12.0           5.7          17.7
Vehicles & Cons. Equipment    1.5          16.9           18.4
Production Mat. & Equipment   5.4           2.2           7.6
Training & Tech. Assistance   0.3           0.5           0.8
Base Cost                105.2          46.1         151.3
Physical Contingencies        9.4           3.9          13.3
Price Contingencies          23.1          10.0          33.1
Total Project Cost /a    137.7          60.0         19/.7
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign        Total
- - - - - - (US$ m) -  - -       _
IDA                           0.0          60.0          60.0
Provincial Governments        7.6           -             7.6
Municipal Governments         63.8          -            63.8
County/District Governments  24.4           -            24.4
Townships                    41.9           -            41.9
Total                    137.7          60.0         197.7
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank/IDA FY                   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Annual                         3.0   15.0   18.0   15.0    9.0
Cumulative                     3.0   18.0   36.0   51.0   60.0
Rate of Return: 28%
/a The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
I. BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
The Agricultural Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
The Fisheries Subsector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
Sectoral Objectives and Bank Operations . . . . . . . . . .5
Project Formulatic- and Rationale . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
II. PROJECT AREAS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
Location   .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .8
Climate    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .8
Soils    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .9
Water Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
Infrastructure and Support Services . . . . . . . . . . . .9
III.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Pond Developmen    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Support Facilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Construction Equipment and Vehicles . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Production Equipment and Materials  . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Training and Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Status of Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Cost Estimate . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .  18
Financing   .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  19
Procurement   .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
Disbursements . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Accounts and Audits.          . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Environmiental Effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
This report is based on the findings of a pceappraisal mission to China in
May 1985 ar.d an appraisal mission in September 1985. Members of the
preappraisal mission were Mss. N.K. Hill, P. Harrell (IDA), Messrs. C.L.
Chen and T. Cowley (Consultants). The appraisal mission comprised Ms.
N.K. Hill, Kr. R. Deshpande, Ms. P. Harrell (IDA), Messrs. C.L. Chen and
C. Cronberg (Consultants).
f1



- ii -
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMET . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
Project Organization and Implementation . . . . . . . . . .23
Financial Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
Execution of Project Works  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . .28
V.  PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29
Present Production Practices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29
Future Production Practices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
Yields and Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32
Marketing and Prices. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
VI.  BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
General   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
'inployment and Incomes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
Financial and Economic Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
Risks   .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .   .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .    .  .38
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . .            40
TABLES IN THE TEXT
3.1  Distribution of Project Works  . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.2  Summary of Project Costs.           .      .  .    .   .   . . . . .
3.3  Procurement Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.1  Main Species of Fish Cultivated  . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.2  Pond Area, Yield and Production. . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.3  Fish Prices. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .
6.1  Economic Rates of Return For Fish Ponds . . . . . . . .
6.2  Economic Rates of Return For Support Facilities . . . .
ANNEXES
1. Background Data
Project Locations
Project Area Statistics



- iii -
Project Cost Summary by City
Project Expenditure Schedule
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Major Materials and Equipment
Cost Estimate and Phasing of Technical Assistance
Cost Estimate - Chengdu
3.  Financial and Economic Evaluation
Financial Returns to New Fish Farm, Beijing
Financial Returns to Improved Fish Farm, Beijing
Operating Costs of Production and Nursery Ponds at Full
Development
Fish Stocking and Price Structure
Financial Returns to Feed Kill (Pellet System), Nanchang
Financial Returns to Feed Mill (Extruder System), Nanchang
Financial Returns to Cold Storage Plant with Ice
Manufacturing, Nanchang
Principal Input and Output Prices and Conversion Factors
Key Data on Per Capita Incomes, Fish Consumption and Prices
4. Guidelines for FDC Operations
5. Implementation Schedule
6.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
LIST OF CHARTS
1. Organizational Structure of NAAF
2. Organization for Project Implementation
3. Channels for Use and Recovery of IDA Credit
MAP
IBRD 19410R - Project Locations



CHINA
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01     The Government of China has requested Bank Group assistance
in financing a freshwater fisheries development project as part of a
program to triple production by the year 2000. The proposed project
would expand and develop intensive pond culture in the vicinity of
eight major urban centers. It would introduce into each project area
an integrated fisheries production, extension and marketing system
operating on a Zully commercial basis. Overall, the project would
establish 11,100 ha of new fish ponds and improve 6,100 ha of
existing ponds. It would provide equipment, vehicles, and support
facilities, including 14 feed mills, four cold storage plants, four
overwintering facilities, a hatchery, a vaccine factory and seven
trade centers. The project would strengthen fisheries research and
extension services through the provision of technical assistance and
training and the constructior; and/or equipping of eight technical
service centers. The technical assistance and training component
would also be used to upgrade the qualifications oI project staff to
implement the proposed project and to carry out further fisheries
development. Project activities in support of freshwater culture
fisheries in che environs of the eight cities would help augment
farmers' incomes, increase per capita consumption of fish, and
provide a model of fish pond design, management, and commercial
operations that could be replicated in other parts of China.
The Agricultural Sector
1.02     Agriculture in China, including crops. livestock, forestry
and fisheries, provides sustenance to over one billion people, is the
source of income for some 190 million farm families, and accounts for
about 30% of the country's GDP. Only about 100 million ha of China's
land area of 960 million ha are arable. Farming systems are
intensive, with large inputs of labor, chemical and organic
fertilizer and water. Nearly half of the arable land is irrigated.
Foodgrains occupy about 80% of the cropland and account for about 55%
of total agricultural output. This intensive system of food
production allows China to meet the basic food requirements of its
population (about 22% of the world's total) from less than 8% of the
world's arable land. Agricultural production is carried out largely
on household-managed farms within a framework of collective or state
ownership of land and major fixed assets. Since 1979, the gross value
of agricultural output has growr. at an average annual rate of about
7%, or more than twice the rate achieved over the prev"ious two
decades. Output of foodgrains increased by about 3.8% annually over
the last decade, reaching a record of 407 million tons in 1984
despite declines in crooped area and area sown with grains.



- 2 -
1.03     Demand for agricultural products is expected to increase
steadily over the next two decades in response to increasing per
capita income and moderate population growth. If consumption patterns
in China follow those observed in other countries, higher incomes
will bring about a substantial restructuring of consumption involving
a marked reduction in direct per capita consumption of grain and a
corresponding increase in the intake of meat, eggs, fish, milk,
fruits, sugar and vegetables. To meet these expected changes in
demand, the Government has posed ambitious production targets for the
year 2000, including a doubling of fisheries production primarily
through large-scale expansion of freshwater ponds. Success in
achieving planned targets will depend on introducing new technology,
strengthening extension programs, and providing price and other
incentives to producers.
The Fisheries Subsector
1.04     China's fisheries subsector, including culture and capture
production from marine and freshwater sources, accounts for about 1%
of the gross value of agricultural output. Total fisheries
production, essentially all of which is consumed domestically,
increased from an annual average of 4.2 million tons in 1974 to 6.2
million tons in 1984, an increase of 47%. This increase was due
mainly to the rapid growth of freshwater fisheries which over the
same period more than doubled from one to 2.3 million tons while
production of marine fisheries rose only 18% from 3.3 to 3.9 million
tons. Despite the overall, steady expansion of fisheries
output--China now ranks third in the world in total production--the
corresponding growth in China's population has kept the annual per
capita consumption of fish at a constant 5 kg which is less than
one-third of the world average and low by comparison to many other
developing countries, e.g., Bangladesh (8 kg) and the Philippines
(35 kg).
1.05    Capture Fisheries. The Chinese expect little change to the
year 2000 in the annual output of capture fisheries, both marine and
freshwater. The mA ine fish catch, which takes place primarily in
vaters within the continental shelf, is being exploited to the
fullest already and there is some evidence of overfishing in coastal
areas. Very little fishing takes place beyond the continental shelf;
key constraints here are a lack of funds and technical know-how and
unattractive financial returns associated with high fuel costs and
the uncertainty of the catch. Output from freshwater capture
fisheries is expected to decline somewhat over the next decade and a
half as a result of overfishing and worsening pollution problems.
1.06     Culture Fisheries.  China has some 5 million ha (75 million
mu) of freshwater bodies and 1.3 million ha (20 million mu) of
coastal waters which are suitable for aquaculture, of which about
three million ha (60%) and 170,000 ha (13%), respectively, are at
present being used. The freshwater bodies comprise river channels and
the shallow parts of lakes, reservoirs, and ponds. In addition, there



- 3 -
are some 600,000 ha of low-lying land, unsuitable for agricultural
crop production and presently little utilized, which can be converted
into fish ponds. The existence of extensive unutilized areas suitable
for culture fisheries and the fact that significant increases in
yields may be realized through application of new technology and
management methods have led the Government to project a tripling of
freshwater fisheries production by the year 2000.
1.07     Freshwater Culture Systems. Freshwater fish culture in China
is practiced as a primary occupation on collectives and state-owned
farms and as a secondary or sideline activity in backyard fish ponds
and paddy fields. The key characteristics of these various systems
are, first, integration of fish farming with other agricultural
activities, namely livestock and crop production, and, second, the
practice of culturing various compatible species, mainly carp, within
a single pond environment. Within the carp family, the grass, silver,
bighead, and common carp are the predominant species stocked. Since
grass carp is a highly preferred fish commanding a market price
generally about twice that of the other carp, stocking ratios
emphasize grass carp wherever the required nutrients--grass and
aquatic weeds--are available. In recent years tilapia has become an
increasingly popular addition to carp polyculture because the fish
grows rapidly, adapts well, and is readily marketable. However, since
the tilapia is a warm water fish, its spread to the temperate and
colder parts of China depends on the ability of the Chinese to devise
cost-effective methods te keep the fish fry and fingerlings alive
during the winter months.
1.08     The Government is encouraging expansion of both paddy field
and backyard fish farming as a means to increase fish consumption in
rural areas. Paddy field culture, a traditional sideline occupation
among Chinese farmers, relies on th't natural nutrients in the water
to sustain the fish whose excreta, in turn, improve soil fertility
thus increasing rice yields. It is estimated that currently about
600,000 ha of rice fields are being used for fish breeding. Yields
from this practice are no more than 0.8 tons/ha. In the backyard fish
ponds, an increasingly popular sideline, the fish are likewise fed
mainly on the pond's natural flora and fauna with the farmer only
occasionally applying a manure or fertilizer supplement. In addition
to this occasional feeding, pond management ideally involves periodic
pond cleaning and treating and maintenance of dikes. However, since
backyard farming, like paddy-field farming, is undertaken mainly to
supply the farmer's own household or neighborhood with fish, labor
input and investment are relatively low with the result that fish
yields are also a low 0.8 tons/ha.
1.09     The bulk of China's freshwater fisheries output is produced
by collective and state-owned fish farms which have fish as the main
crop. Fish farming is practiced on ponds, lakes, and reservoirs.
Ponds account for about one-third of the total three million ha
presently cultivated and 75% of total output. Management of the
traditional system of integrated polyculture practiced on small ponds
has been developed to a high standard in many parts of China with



-4-
careful attention paid to efficient use and recycling of available
resources. In recent years, the Chinese have introduced mechanical
devices such as aerators which have had a positive effect on yields.
introduction of contract fish farming by specialized households under
the production responsibility system has also contributed to a marked
increase in yields. Some farms in the lover reaches of the Yangtze
and Pearl Rivers currently report yields as high as 7.5 tons/ha and
recent figures for the north (Heilongjiang Province) indicate yields
of up to 4.5 tons/ha. Such yields are uncommon, however. Due to a
lack of standardization in design and management practices, wide
variation in yields exists with the average about 0.9 tons/ha in the
north and 2.5 tons/ha in the south. In short, though the introduction
of household aquaculture has acted as a spur to increased yields and
production, further subsector growth of the magnitude presently
envisaged by the Government will require, in addition, broad
dissemination of known technologies, ensuring market-oriented prices,
and strengthening the role of commercially-operated supply and
marketing services.
1.10     Fisheries OrLanizations. At the central level, the primary
responsibility for the fisheries subsector rests with two bureaus
vithin the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries
(MAAF) (Chart 1)--the Bureau of Aquatic Products (BAP) and the Bureau
of Fisheries Administration (BFA). The BAP is responsible for a broad
range of fisheries development activities. Major functions include
overall planning and policy formulation, allocation of funds to
national fisheries organizations, coordination of fisheries research,
monitoring of fisheries development at the provincial level, and
coordination of technical assistance. The BFA is charged with the
specific task of administering -mAine fisheries regulations,
including regulations for fishing port operations and maritime
communications and safety. In addition to the two Bureaus, HAAF has
set up special agencies to handle marketing and investments in
fisheries. The Aquatic Products Supply and Sales Corporation advises
the Government on fish prices, distribution of fish and supplies, and
investments in local fish farms, usually  experimental farms or farms
in marginal areas.
1.11    Most provincial governments have fisheries agencies--either
a separate bureau, a part of a combined agriculture, animAl husbandry
and fisheries bureau, or a unit within the water resources
bureau--which are administratively responsible to the provincial
government and receive technical guidance from MAAF's BAP. A similar
structure of agencies exists at the municipal and county (or
district) levels. During the past year, municipal and county
governments have begun to establish autonomous fisheries
corporations, many of them converted from large, well-established
companies which have long operated as subsidized units under a local
fisheries agency. This move is part of a broader effort within
government to disengage enterprise management and operations from the
government's administrative/regulatory activities thus encouraging
growth of enterprises which are independent, profit-oriented and
economically efficient. The new corporations are service companies
designed to provide on a commercial basis a comprehensive range of



- 5 -
support services to fish producers including feed and fingerling
supply, cold storage, transport, equipment procurement, and
extension, marketing, construction and engineering services. Once
registered with the General Administration of Industry and Commerce
(GAIC) or its local affiliates, the corporations are authorized to
borrow bank funds, own assets, and enter into contracts and are
obligated to account for their profits and losses and to pay taxes.
At the production level, township goverDments are encouraging
formation of commercial fish farms consisting on average of 75
households and 50 ha of ponds. Some of these farms are patterned
after the old fisheries production brigades (now called villages);
others are new aggregations of households which cut across village
lines. Like the municipal and county corporations and other township
enterprises, these commercial fish farms are GAIC-licensed accounting
units which are authorized to borrow, own assets and enter into
contracts. Farm management, appointed by the township, is responsible
for keeping accounts and purchasing supplies for farmers,
distributing profits, and handling tax payments to the township
government.
Sectoral Objectives and Bank O2erations
1.12 The policies of the Chinese Government since 1979 have greatly
improved the environment for rapid agricultural growth. Under the
production responsibility system, farmers have had more flexibility
in determining what crops to grow, how much to produce and where to
market their output. Major price adjustments in agriculture,
including recently announced reforms to eliminate fixed prices and
procurement quotas for most agricultural products, have provided
financial incentives encouraging producers to expand output. Results
have been dramatic: sector output has increased by over 7% per year
over the past six years by comparison to an average of under 2.5% per
year in the preceding twenty years. The challenges for China's
agriculture in the future will be to maintain an adequate rate of
growth and to accommodate an expected shift in consumption patterns
as population and incomes rise and industry expands. In terms of the
average Chinese diet, Chinese planners project a rapid increase in
the demand for fruits, vegetables, meat, poultry, fish, and dairy
products with a corresponding decrease in the share of direct grain
consumption. To ensure that the composition of agricultural
production adjusts to changing patterns of demand, incentives in the
form of price advantages and improved services are being provided
rural households specializing in production of specialty crops, fish
farming and pig and poultry raising.
1.13     In the fisheries subsector, the Government aims to double
overall output by the year 2000. The culture of freshwater fish is
projected to increase nearly threefold or by 8% per year and to
account for about three-fourths of the projected increase in total
fisheries output. The Government is encouraging formation of both
small- and medium-scale enterprises to produce and market fish
products and is undertaking programs to strengthen a range of support
services including research, extension, feed processing, and cold
storage.



1.14    Lending in China's aquaculture subsector is part of the
Bank's broader efforts to assist the Government in diversifying
agricultural output to meet expected shifts in consumption and
demand. While the proposed Freshwater Fisheries Project is the Bank's
first full-scale involvement in the subsector, aquaculture components
have figured importantly in other Bank-financod projects in
agriculture which have had as their primazy focus strengthening
agricultural support services, provision of credit, and area
development. The First Agricultural Educarion and Research Project
(Cr. 1297-CHA), the Second Agricultural Education P'oject (Ln.
2444/Cr. 1500-CHA), and the Second Agricultural Research Project (Cr.
1516-0-CHA) are providing scientific equipment, computers and
technical assistance and training to expand and upgrade two of
China's major fisheries colleges, Shanghai and Dalian, and two key
fisheries research institutes, one in Beijing and one at Lake Tai.
The ongoing Rural Credit I Project (Cr. 1462-CHA) and the
recently-approved Rural Credit II Project (Cr. 1642-CHA) are
financing investments in Guangxi, Fujian, and Hunan Provinces to
construct and improve freshwater fish ponds managed by collectives,
state-owned enterprises, and individual households. Expansion of
freshwater pond culture is also being supported under the
Pishihang-Chaohu Area Development Project (Ln. 2579/Cr. 1606-CHA)
which is strengthening the capacity of about 140 nurseries to supply
fry and fingerlings for new and existing ponds in central Anhui
Province. In addition to the above-mentioned projects which include
some assistance to aquaculture, Bank lending in agriculture is
assisting water resources and land development in the North China
Plain Project (Cr. 1261-CHA) and the Heilongjiang Land Reclamation
Project (Ln. 2261/Cr. 1347-CHA), special products development in the
Rubber Development Project (Cr. 141;.-CHA) and Forestry Development
Project (Cr. 1605-CHA), and improvement of agricultural inputs in the
Seeds Project (Cr. 1577-CHA). Future project possibilities include
support for livestock development, agro-industries, and
rehabilitation of the arid regions of Gansu and Xinjiang Provinces.
The lending program will also continue to support repeater projects
in areas judged to be of key importance in the shift from collective
to household-managed farms.
Project Formulation and Rationale
1.15    To help meet the expected shift in consumption patterns over
the next two decades, the Government has given priority to expansion
of fisheries output, now only 1% of the Gross Value of Agricultural
Output (GVAO). Development of freshwater culture fisheries,
particularly small pond culture, has been made a special target
because of the limited prospects for increasing output from capture
fisheries, the potential for significant yield increases from
existing freshwater ponds, and the availability of unused or
low-lying land suitable for conversion into fish ponds. While in
certain limited areas, particularly in the south, integrated carp
polyculture has been developed to a high technical standard with
yields as high as 7.5 tons/ha reported, the vast majority of existing



- 7 -
fish ponds in China produce yields of less than one ton per ha as a
result of poorly designed pond layout, use of inappropriate breeds of
fish or stocking rates, and poor feed management. To overcome these
constraints to planned expansion of production, the Government has
developed a program of increased investments in aquaculture
development. The proposed project, which represents the initial
phase of this program, would build 11,100 ha of new ponds and improve
6,100 ha of existing ponds. Attention would be given to a range of
activities specific to development of freshwater fisheries, beginning
with training new farmers, assuring the availability of inputs--fry,
fingerlings, chemical fertilizers, fish feed concentrates--,
strengthening extension services for guidance in adopting new
technology, and providing disease control and assistance in
marketing. The major rationale for Bank involvement in the proposed
project would be to assist in putting into place this large-scale,
comprehensive system of fisheries production, extension and marketing
facilities; to enable the BAPs and fisheries development corporations
(para. 1.11) to gain access to technologies available abroad in feed
formulation, feed processing, cold storage and intensive monoculture
systems; and to help the Government create comercial fisheries
enterprises operating on principles of sound economic management.
1.16     Because of the inadequacy of transport and cold storage
facilities, the Government has decided to establish large-scale
fisheries operations in the suburban areas of major cities where
there is a large guaranteed market for fresh fish. The Government,
in consultation with Bank staff, selected for inclusion in the
proposed project eight cities which have the available land,
administrative infrastructure, and investment resources for fish farm
development and where consumer demand is high and increasing. The
major criterion in site selection for new ponds is that the land be
low-lying, poorly drained, no more than marginally productive and
have no other economically attractive use. An exchange of views
between the Government and Bank staff and consultants, continuing
since identtfication and preparation of the project, has led to
improvements in the project's design and organizational
arrangements. Standards for pond construction and stocking rates for
fish have been developed and adjustments made in the size and
location of feed mills. To assist in equipment procurement and other
aspects of project preparation, the IDA-financed Technical
Cooperation Credit (TCC) (Cr. 1412-CHA) will be used to finance two
pre-project study tours abroad to inspect feed mill equipment and
fish breeding operations. Modifications have been made in
arrangements fnr cost recovery to accord with the Government's
current emphasis on investment efficiency. These arrangements
represent major progress in moving from grant to loan financing of
capital investments.



-8-
II. PROJECT AREAS
location-
2.01   The project areas are located in the vicinity of eight major
cities: Beijing, Chengdu, Chongqing, Hangzhou, Harbin, Nanchang,
Shanghai, and Shenyang (IBRD MAP 19410). Represented among these
cities are two municipalities with provincial status (Beijing,
Shanghai), and the capitals of the provinces of Sichuan (Chengdu),
Zhejiang (Hangzhou), Heilongjiang (Harbin), Jiangxi (Nanchang), and
Liaoning (Shenyang). The other city, Chongqing, is one of China's
major industrial centers and, like Harbin, has recently been given
special economic status, entitling it to tax benefits and other
incentives, as a stimulus to accelerated growth. Project sites would
comprise 500 fish farms covering 17,200 ha located in 45 counties and
districts which are generally within a 15-50 km radius of the city
centers. (Annex 1) Project sites are typically located on
low-productivity farm land or wasteland in low-lying areas. Most
sites proposed for Shanghai and Hangzhou are located on land recently
reclaimed from the expanding river deltas, about half of the Chengdu
sites are on floodplain land along the several rivers traversing the
city, and all Nanchang sites are on reclaimed land adjacent to
Po-yang Lake. In the case of Beijing, Harbin, and Shenyang, project
sites are generally on unproductive swampland. The exception in terms
of topography is Chongqing where project fish farms would be located
in narrow valleys and ravines throughout the hilly districts
surrounding the city.
Climate
2.02    Project cities fall into two distinct climatic zones. The
five cities on the lower and middle reaches of the Yangtze
River--Chengdu, Chongqing. Hangzhou, Nanchang and Shanghai--are in a
warm temperate zone where summer temperatures average 26 degrees C
and winter frosts are rare. Water temperature in these city areas is
typically above 15 degrees C for seven to nine months of the year
providing a favorable environment for the breeding of the various
carp species which form the basis of the Chinese polyculture system.
Annual mean precipitation ranges from 980 mm (Chengdu) to 1541 mm
(Nanchang). The three cities in the north and northeast, Beijing,
Shenyang and Harbin, fall into the cold temperate zone. While summer
temperatures range from an average of 19 degrees in Shenyang to 25 in
Beijing, winters are severe with Beijing and Shenyang recording below
zero temperatures for December through February and Harbin for
November through March. The water temperature is above 15 degrees C
for only four to six months a year. Moreover, ponds are covered with
ice for three to five months a year which means a reduced oxygen
supply and therefore a much shorter growing season for fish. Annual
mean precipitation in these three cities is around 600 mm.



-9-
Soils
2.03    Soils in the project areas range from heavy clays to both
sandy and coarse alluvial deposits. In general, soil conditions pose
no problems for the proposed fish pond development activities. In the
case of three cities, modifications in design would be made to suit
particular conditions. In Hangzhou and Shanghai, the combination of
sandy soils and high winds experienced at the coastal sites would
require slope protection to prevent embankment erosion. In Chengdu,
where coarse alluvial deposits (largely gravel and boulders)
characterize project sites, pond lining would be required to prevent
seepage.
Water Resources
2.04    The project areas have abundant water resources. Chongqing,
at the southeast edge of the Sichuan Basin, is situated at the
confluence of the Yangtze and Jialing Rivers while Chengdu, the
capital of the province in the northwest corner of the Basin, is
traversed by 15 rivers including the Min. Hangzhou, Shanghai and
Nanchang are supplied with water from the network of rivers in the
plains area along the middle and lower reaches of the Yangtze.
Shenyang is located in the Pu River basin, Harbin is served by the
Songhua River, and Beijing receives its water supply from six rivers
and two major reservoirs. Existing irrigation systems in all project
areas are extensive and well-developed. Project sites in Hangzhou,
Chengdu, Nanchang and Shanghai would be supplied entirely with water
drawn from these existing systems. In Beijing, Harbin and Shenyang,
surface water would need to be supplemented with water from wells to
maintain an adequate supply during the winter months when shortages
occur. Many of the fish farms planned for Chongqing would also
require supplementary water, in this case pumped from adjacent
watersheds. All proposed sites are provided with appropriate flood
protection structures. Coastal and flood plain sites are protected by
dikes which have been built as part of regional flood protection
systems. Water quality in all project areas is satisfactory for
aquaculture development.
Infrastructure and Support Services
2.06    TransDort and Power. All project sites are within reach of
relatively well-developed road networks radiating from major cities.
Except for some sites in Shenyang, all proposed farms are linked by
rural roads to secondary and main roads providing access to. both town
and city markets. Within farm boundaries, however, additional roads
are needed to handle the increased volume of farm to market transport
resulting from the project. Existing electrical transmission and
distribution networks serve all project areas. Electric supply is
generally reliable with outages experienced only once or twice a
year. Some additional distribution lines would be required within
project fish farms.



- 10 -
2.07    Education. Four national fisheries colleges--Shanghai,
Dalian, Xiamen, and Zhanjiang--and one provincial college-- -Zhejiang
Fisheries College--provide high level training in aquaculture for the
country as a whole. Total enrollment in these institutions is about
3,500. At the secondary or polytechnic level, there are 13 schools
nationwide specializing in fisheries with a total enrollment of
1,300. Five of the 13 are located in the project provinces. In
addition, a number of agricultural schools--e.g., Southwest
Agricultural College in Chongqing--have recently added aquaculture to
the curriculum. While enrollments overall are small relative to the
number of workers in the aquaculture subsector, opportunities for
high level training are growing and the project cities are
increasingly able to recruit well-trained people for positions in
their fisheries agencies.
2.08    Research. Centrally-funtded research in aquaculture is
conducted by HAAF's Fisheries Science Research Institute in Beijing
and its nine affiliated institutes, two of which are in Shanghai (the
East China Sea Fisheries Institute and the Fisheries Machinery
Institute) and one in Harbin (Heilongjiang Fisheries Research
Institute). With the exception of Chengdu, each project city has its
own fisheries research institute. Chengdu relies on support from the
Sichuan provincial fisheries institute at Yipin. Some of the city
institutes--Chongqing, Nanchang, Shenyang, and Harbin--are new
operations with a staff of only 10-15 who are involved more in
extension and demonstration work than in actual research.
Others--Shanghai, Beijing, Hangzhou--are well-established centers
with a staff of 150 and more conducting high quality research in such
areas as breeding, disease prevention, and fish nutrition. In the
interests of expanding freshwater pond production, the municipal
institutes have given attention in recent years to strengthening work
in fish nutrition and feed formulation. Under the current government
policy of encouraging financial independence on the part of the
research establishment, funding for new projects from budgetary
sources has been reduced and research institutes are increasingly
commercializing their research activities through contracts with
enterprises and other agencies.
2.09    Extension. Fisheries extension services run by local BAPs are
available in all project cities. Though the scope of services varies
from city to city, most existing municipal and county stations are
small-capacity units of 5-10 technicians each which provide technical
advice and organize short-term training for area fish farmers. In
1984, the eight project areas trained from 200 (Nanchang) to 1,300
(Chengdu) farmers to the "well-trained farmer" or "farmer technician"
level in short courses in basic production techniques, disease
prevention, and management methods. Use of audiovisual equipment in
extension work is limited as is the availability of scientific
equipment for laboratory demonstrations. To provide training and
services for the large numbers of new farmers involved in the program
to expand fisheries production in the project areas, there is a need
to establish additional, well-equipped extension facilities.



- 11 -
2.10     Rural Ceit. Production credit for fisheries is available
in the project areas from the Agricultural Bank of China's (ABC)
extensive network of branches at the municipal, county and township
levels. In addition, at the county and township levels, collectively
owned and managed rural credit cooperatives (RCCs) operate as part of
the ABC network and play a major role in both deposit mobilization
and provision of short-term credit for agriculture including
fisheries. Recent economic reforms, particularly the shift in
emphasis from grant to loan financing, have increased the role of the
banking system in rural development. The ABC and RCCs are therefore
expected to expand their operations to meet the growing demand for
financial services including credit. Institutional development of ABC
is being assisted by IDA through the ongoing First Rural Credit
Project (Cr. 1462-CHA) and the recently-approved Second Rural Credit
Project (Cr. 1642-CHA).



- 12 -
III. THELPQJECT
Project Descrintiotn
3.01     The principal objective of the proposed project is to assist
the Government in developing freshwater fish culture in the vicinity
of eight major urban centers. The project would expand the area
under intensive fish cultivation by improving existing ponds and
using land unsuitable for crops for now pond contruction, provide
techniques and equipment for pond management, and strengthen the
support facilities for production and marketing of fish. The
project would contribute to increased production of freshwater fish
and would serve as a model for the establishment of co_mercial scale
fish farms in other parts of the country. The main features are:
a)   establishment of 11,100 ha of new ponds and improvement of
6,100 ha of existing ponds, including provision of water
supply, drainage, power supply, farm roads and buildings,
and where required, pond lining, flood protection, and slope
protection;
b)   construction and equipping of support facilities, including
14 feed mills, four cold storage plants, six technical
service centers, seven trade centers, 20 ha of tilapia
overwintering facilities, a vaccine factory and a 25 ha
running-water hatchery;
c)   provision of construction equipment and vehicles to fish
farms and support facilities for production, extension and
marketing;
d)   provision of production equipment and materials to fish
farms; and
e)   a training and technical assistance program designed to
upgrade the qualifications of project staff to implement the
proposed project and to carry out further fisheries
development in the eight cities.
The distribution of project works among the cities is shown in Table
3.1.
Pond DeveLopment
3.02     The project provides for construction of new ponds and
improvement of existing ponds according to BAP's guidelines, withi
modifications to fit the specific situation in different locations.
These guidelines call for 0.66 ha rectangular shaped ponds,
surrounded by 3 m high dikes with 2:1 side slopes and provided with
proper filling and draining controls. Ponds of uniform size would be
constructed in aggregations of 15-150 ha and organized as fish
farms. Pond improvement, which generally involves deepening,



TI                                           a.i 3j;0l      t@1 i  
N H    N I  O    I I    N U   I. M P i ' II  I I IS8w §       B    
eD~~~ eie     IINN"    1 1 w    INN  a0:Xol- i.e-a-
tN~~~~~   N                        r             I    d oo3t  
NH    NI @   I~  I INI '  I-.*-'     I IN I "II~I         IO |           w 
I<-      rr
IH  I IWO   'I  INN INN NI I            *osgI e  t 8
,~~~~~~~                                        I  ro,,,",,>s          8 
NH   wo                                                   I  sWaooE



- 14 -
reshaping and the provision of filling and drainage facilities, would
be carried out on farms already established.
3.03     The lands to be developed are swamps, marshes, or low-lying,
poorly drained crop lands which are marginally productive. Other
conditions for selection of sites included proximity to the market
city, topography suitable for economical construction, ready access
to water, roads and electricity, availability of construction
materials in the vicinity, and minimal risk of flooding. Once these
conditions were met, consideration was given to the ability of the
township to contribute to the proposed investment in establishment or
improvement of fish farms, and the willingness of individual farmers
to participate.
3.04     Pond construction would involve, on average, excavation of
about 10,000 m3/ha for new ponds and 5,000 m3/ha for ponds to be
improved. The vertical setting of the ponds would be chosen so as to
give an approximate balance between the amount of earth to be
excavated and that needed for embankments. Any earth not needed for
dikes would be used to raise the level of adjacent lands, which could
then be used for growing grass or other crops. About 20% of the
earthworks for new ponds would be carried out with equipment procured
through the project, about 25% is expected to be done by local
construction teams using existing equipment, and the balance would be
done manually. In the case of improved pond earthworks, about 10%
would be done by local construction teams with existing equipment and
90% would be done manually.
3.05    Generally, there is no need for pond lining, and grass
planted on the embankments is adequate to prevent erosion of the side
slopes. However, linings and slope protection are planned where
local circumstances warrant. In Chengdu, about half the new ponds
would be built on former floodplain lands, which are covered with
gravel and boulders. Here pond bottoms and embankments would be lined
vith concrete or a mix of lime, gravel and stone. Slope protection
would also be required at some sites in Hangzhou and Shanghai to
minimize erosion by wind-driven wave action, even though ponds are
aligned with the narrow side in the direction of the prevailing
winds.
3.06    All farms would have provision for conveying water to and
from each pond. The most common arrangement would be to provide
alternate filling and draining canals with access to each pond. The
supply canals would usually be small concrete-lined ditches along the
top of the dikes. Drains would be either canals or drainage pipes
set in the alternate dike. All the cities, except Chongqing, have
existing irrigation systems which would be the principal water supply
source; Chongqing would use a combination of natural runoff and
pumping from water sources in adjoining catchments. Wells would be
provided in Shenyang and Harbin, for use in winter when irrigation
systems are not in operation, and in Beijing, to supplement
deliveries from irrigation canals where allocations for fish ponds
are limited.



- 15 -
3.07     About 400 km of farm roads would be constructed to connect
the farms to the existing county and provincial road systems. These
would generally be 1 - 2 km long and 4 m wide with a gravel surface.
About 900 km of distribution lines, with the necessary substations
and transformers, would be provided to connect with the rural
electrification system already in place in the project areas. About
78,000 sq m of offices, dwellings and workshops would be constructed
on the farms. To insure manure supplies for pond fertilization,
about 120,000 sq m of sheds for poultry and swine would be included.
Support FaciLities
3.08     FeedMills.  A 6-8 ton/hr feed mill would be constructed in
Beijing, and 13 smaller mills, with capacities of 1.5-2.5 t/hr, would
be provided in the other seven cities. These mills would have a
combined annual output of 73,000 tons of high-quality, pelletized or
extruded feed concentrate (assuming operation 8 hrs/day, 300 days per
year). Initial operations would be for the manufacture of a single
type of feed to fit the carp polyculture system. The mills would be
equipped with laboratories for analyzing raw material to determine
the optimal feed composition with respect to nutrients and price and
to stimulate development of balanced formulations for feed conversion
efficiency. The use of feed concentrates in fisheries is relatively
new in China and proper formulations are under experimentation at a
number of research institutes. Proper feed formulation, including
adding amino acids and vitamins, has been shown experimentally in
Beijing to reduce the feed to fish conversion rate from 3.5 to 2.
However, conversion rates are sensitive to different climate and
temperature conditions, and to be most economically e2ficient, feed
components should be locally produced grains and their by-products.
Study tours are planned for observation of feed mills in the United
States and Scandinavian countries, and feed formulation studies would
be conducted by local research institutes (para. 3.15).
3.09     Cold Storage Facilities.  Two cold storage plants with a
nominal capacity of 500 tons would be located in Harbin and 1,000 ton
capacity plants would be provided for both Shenyang and Nanchang.
The Nanchang facility would also have a 25-ton per day ice making
unit. The new plants would utilize rack storage for improved
handling and space management. In Beijing and Chongqing, cold storage
facilities would consist of 25-50 ton capacity prefabricated units
incorporated into the trade centers (para. 3.11). The larger plants
would be used for storage of frozen fish to be sold during the main
holiday seasons, and the smaller units would be mainly for overnight
refrigeration of unmarketed fish.
3.10     Technical Service Centers.  The project would provide for
construction and equipping of technical service centers in the eight
cities. The technical service centers would have simple laboratories,
classrooms and offices, and would be the locus of training and
extension activities for project farmers. Each center would be



- 16 -
staffed with 25-30 persons, most of them fisheries specialists,
engaged in conducting training courses for extension staff and
project farmers. From 1,500 to 2,500 fish farmers and aquaculture
technicians would be trained annually, to achieve a ratio of one
"farmer technician" per 8 fish farmers and one aquaculture technician
per 15 farmers.
3.11     Trade centers.  Trade centers would be constructed in six
cities. The trade centers would be staffed and equipped to provide
market information to farmers and supply farm materials such as nets,
thread, lines, grass seed, fertilizer, and fuel. They would have
retail fish outlets and could, when needed, provide transport of fish
from farm to market. Cafeteria and dormitory facilities would also
be included. In Beijing and Chongqing, the trade centers would
include prefabricated refrigeration units.
3.12     Other support facilities.  Other support services to be
provided by the project include tilapia overwintering facilities, a
vaccine factory and an enclosed flowing-water hatchery. Tilapia
overwintering facilities would be constructed in Chengdu, Chongqing
and Hangzhou, where environmental conditions are suitable and a
market for tilapia exists. The facilities would be mainly for
overwintering brood fish so that a supply of fry and fingerlings
could be provided to project farmers. In Beijing, a combination carp
hatchery and tilapia overwintering facility would be provided. A
vaccine factory would be constructed and equipped in Shanghai to
produce a vaccine which can reduce fish mortality due to a viral
"bleeding disease". In Shanghai, consumers show a market preference
for large three-year old fish; however, in the second year, fish show
a marked susceptibility to this disease. A hatchery, using power
plant exhaust heat, would be constructed in Harbin. Harbin is the
northernmost city in the project area and, until now, has had to rely
on obtaining fry and fingerling supplies from Guangdong and other
southern areas. The 25 ha hatchery facility would provide a reliable
supply of better-quality stock through intensive monoculture
techniques.
Construction Eauipment and Vehicles
3.13     The equipment fleets of the project offices, FDCs (para.
4.01), support facilities and project area farms would be expanded
and replaced through procurement of 2,085 vehicles (Annex 2, Table
4). Trucks would be used primarily to transport fresh or live fish
(in water or ice) from farm to market; other uses would be for
transport of fingerlings and fry, grasses, manure and other inputs.
Trucks would be allocated to farms on the basis of one ton of vehicle
capacity per 6-10 ha. In addition, the project would provide 30
bulldozers and 7 excavators for the FDCs' construction units. This
equipment would be used for construction or improvement of project
ponds in Beijing, Harbin, Nanchang and Shenyang.



- 17 -
Production Eauioment and Materials
3.14     The project includes production equipment such as workboats,
nets, aerators, automatic feeders, blenders, and fishing equipment.
The project also provides for the initial stocking of fingerlings,
the first application of chemical fertilizers to the newly
constructed ponds, and feed components such as fish meal and
vitamins, for the first year's operation (Annex 2, Table 4).
Training and Technical Assistance
3.15     To upgrade the qualifications of local fisheries staff, the
project would provide about 131 man-months of study tours and
overseas training, 144 man-months of local training, and 5 man-months
of consulting services (Annex 2, Table 5). About five one-month
study tours with six to eight persons each would visit feed mills,
cold storage plants, fish breeding facilities, and feed intensive
monoculture operations primarily in Northern Europe, the US, Japan
and Southeast Asia. Overseas training would consist of (a) two- to
six-week special programs, including visits to equipment
manufacturers and attendance at international conferences, organized
for senior project staff; and (b) short-term (one to three month)
courses for technical staff in such areas as fish nutrition and fish
farm management. Additional short-term training opportunities in
aquaculture technology as well as business management would be
provided under the local training subcomponent. During negotiations
an assurance was obtained that the training component would be
carried out in accordance with a program acceptable to IDA. The
project would also include 5 man-months of consulting services to
help organize and conduct local training courses in financial
analysis of fisheries projects and computer-assisted data management.
Consultants wotld be selected under terms of reference agreed at
negotiations and in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines on the use
of consultants. Feed mill equipment suppliers would provide training
in operation and maintenance as part of the procurement packages.
Research institutions in each project city would be commissioned by
the project coordinating committee (para. 4.03) and municipal project
office to provide technical advice to the project as necessary and to
carry out studies and experimentation to develop city-specific feed
formulations.
Status of Preparation
3.16   The project is in an advanced stage of preparation. Each
municipality has established Project Offices at the municipal and
county levels and appointed key staff; all staff would be in place by
mid-1986. The municipal and county Bureaus of Aquatic Products have
selected the sites for farm establishment and improvement, carried
out detailed surveys, and prepared designs in sufficient detail to
form a basis for accurate quantity estimates. Construction drawings
have been completed for about 30% of project farms, including farm
roads, canals, transmission lines, and farm buildings. Preliminary



- 18 -
designs for the civil works portion of technical service centers,
trade centers, overwintering facilities, the hatchery and the vaccine
factory have been completed. Draft bid documents have been prepared
for vehicles, feed mills and construction equipment, and bidding
procedures are expected to begin by mid-1986.
Im2iementation Schedule
3.17     The project would be implemented over a five-year period
beginning in mid-1986. Pond construction would start in July 1986.
Preparation of bid documents by mid-1986 would allow the feed mills
and cold storage facilities ra begin operation by early 1988.
Technical service centers would be completed by mid-1987, trade
centers by mid-1988 and overvintering facilities by late 1988. The
hatchery would be in operation by 1989. All project works would be
completed by the end of 1990. A detailed implementation schedule is
given in Annex 5.
Cost Estimate
3.18     Total project cost in January 1986 prices is US$197.7
million, with a foreign exchange component of $60 million, or 30% of
the total. Unit prices applied to quantity estimates for pond
development and improvement, including transmission lines, water
supplies roads, farm buildings, and the civil works portion of
support facilities are based on recent experience with similar work
in the vicinity of the cities. Prices for locally available
materials and equipment are based on data provided to the municipal
project offices by local suppliers. Prices for construction
equipment, vehicles, feed processing, cold storage and imported
laboratory and production equipment are based on list prices obtained
from manufacturers. Physical contingencies (10% of base costs) range
from 5% for equipment to 15% for civil works.  Assumed price
increases amount to 20% of the base cost plus physical contingencies
and are based on annual price escalation factors for goods and
services of domestic and foreign origin in US dollar equivalents of
7.0% in 1986 and 1987, 7.5% in 1988, 7.7% in 1989 and 7.6% in 1990.
A summary of project costs is shown in Table 3.2; a breakdown by city
is given in Annex 2, and detailed estimates for each city are in the
project file.



- 19 -
Table 3.Z  SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total F.E.
- - - (Ym) -a -      - - (US$ m) -- - - (%)
Pond Development          258.0   62.6  320.6   86.0   20.8   106.8   20
Support Facilities        35.9   17.1   53.0   12.0    5.7    17.7   37
Vehicles & Cons. Equip.    4.4   50.7   55.1    1.5   16.9    18.4   92
Production Mat. & Equip.  16.1    6.9   23.0    5.4    2.2       7.6   30
Training & Tech. Assist.   0.9    1.3    2.2    0.3    0.5       0.8   63
Base Cost                 315.4  138.5  453.9  105.2   46.1   151.3   30
Physical Contingencies    28.2   11.8   40.0    9.4    3.9    13.3   30
Price Contingencies        69.4   29.7   99.1   23.1   10.0    33.1   30
Total Project Cost /a    413.0  180.0  593.0  137.7   60.0   197.7   30
a! The project is exempt from taxes and duties.
FLnanucng
3.19     Bank Group assistance would be an IDA Credit of SDR 52 million
(US$60 million equivalent) and would cover 30% of total project costs.
The balance of US$137.7 million equivalent would be met from the
following:
(a)  provincial governments - US$7.6 million equivalent;
(b)  municipal governments - US$63.8 million equivalent;
(c)  county and district gover,ments - US$24.4 million equivalent;
and
(d) townships - US$ 41.9 million equivalent.
Procurexent
3.20     Goods worth about US$38 million would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. The main items to be procured would be (1) equipment for
cold storage facilities and feed processing plants (US$8.7 million),
(2) vehicles and construction equipment (US$ 22.4 million), and (3)
steel and other construction materials (US$7.2 million). Qualified
domestic manufacturers would receive a preference of 15% of c.i.f. bid
price or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less, in bid
evaluation. Prior IDA review of contract awards would exclude small



- 20 -
contracts (less than $200,000) estimated to cover less than 15% of the
value of all contracts. Working groups, composed of representatives
from each municipality, have prepared preliminary specifications for
vehicles, equipment, and machinery for cold storage and feed mills.
Final preparation of bid documents would be carried out by the China
Machinery Import and Export Corporation (MACHIMPEX), the main agency
for machinery procurement in China. Bid invitation and bid evaluation
and award recommendations would be the responsibility of MACHIMPEX in
consultation with the FP0 (para. 4.01).
3.21     Laboratoxy and audio-visual equipment (for technical service
centers, the vaccine factory, and the hatchery, totalling US$0.7
million), production materials (chemical fertilizers, fish meal,
vitamins and feed additives, totalling US$ 2.7 million), and production
equipment (totalling US$0.2 million) would be procured on the basis of
international and local shopping (ILS) (three quotations), in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. Most of the
production equipment is fabricated locally; production material
requirements would be spread over the implementation period and be in
relatively small amounts. The FP0 would consolidate, as far as
practicable, the eight cities' procurement requirements into single
packages.
3..2     Civil works for pond development (US$136.8 million) and
construction of support facilities (US$11.6 million) would be carried
out by local construction teams. Because these works would be small
and dispersed geographically among eight cities and 45 counties, they
would not be suitable for ICB. Earthworks would be carried out by
force account or other procedures acceptable to IDA. In general, the
work would be carried out by a township's own construction bureau, with
assistance from the coumty or municipal construction bureaus. However,
recently there has been a growing trend toward competitive bidding for
local construction jobs, with construction teams organized by
collectives or operated by county water conservancy and highway
construction bureaus bidding on works of the type included in the
project. Wherever feaaible, the project management would encourage
competitive bidding. Although procedures vary between localities, bid
advertisement is wide enough to secure numberous bidders, and contract
documents clearly define the rights and obligations of the parties
involved and spell out the terms of payment. Further details of the
procurement arrangements are provided in Table 3.3.
Disbursements
3.23    Disbursements under the Credit against expenditures for feed
mills, cold storac,e and technical service center equipment, vehicles,
construction equipment and materials, and production equipment and
materials would be at 100% of the foreign exchange costs of imported
items, 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured items, and
75% of local expenditures for imported items procured locally.
Disbursements for overseas and local training and technical assistance
would be 100% of total costs. Disbursement for earthworks would be at
30% of total expenditures.



- 21 -
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
ICB     ILS     Other /a  Total
Pond development
Earthworks                                        68.9       68.9
(20.7)    (20.7)
Other construction /b           4.7 /c            67.9       72.6
(4.7)              (0)       (4.7)
Support facilities
Buildings                       2.5 /c            11.6       14.1
(2.5)              (0)       (2.5)
Equipment                       8.7        0.7                9.4
(5.4)     (0.7)              (6.1)
Vehicles and Constr. Equipment
Vehicles                        18.0                         18.0
(18.0)                       (18.0)
Construction equipment          4.4                           4.4
(4.4)                        (4.4)
Production materials and equipment
Production materials                       6.3                6.3
(2.7) /d          (2.7)
Production equipment                       3.1                3.1
(0.2)             (0.2)
Training and technical assistance                     0.9        0.9
(0.7)     (0.7)
Total                  38.3     10.1    149.3       197.7
(35.0)    (3.6)   (21.4)      (60.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by
the Credit. All amounts include contingencies.
/a  Includes (i) local procedures, including force account and local
competitive bidding; and (ii) technical assistance and training.
/b Includes slope protection, pond lining, flood protection, water
supply and drainage, power supply, roads and farm buildings.
/c Steel and other construction materials.
/d Excludes fry and fingerlings.



- 22 -
3.24     Disbursements for training and contracts for technical
assistance, technical service center equipment, production materials
and equipment, and chemical fertilizers costing less than $200,000,
and for earthworks would be made against statements of expenditure
(SOEs), the supporting documentation for which would be retained by
the FP0. In the case of earthworks, SOEs vould be supported by
progress reports shoving physical quantities and unit prices which
would be updated annually by the FPO and reviewed by IDA.
3.25     In order to provide for efficient disbursement of credit
proceeds, a special account would be opened in US dollars in a bank
acceptable to IDA with an initial deposit of US dollar equivalent of
SDR 3.5 million which represents the average estimated four-month
expenditures. Applications for replenishment of the special account
would be submitted quarterly, or whenever the special account is
drawn down to 50% of its initial deposit, whichever comes first.
3.26     The project is expected to be completed by about December
1990 and the closing date would be June 30, 1991. The disbursement
experience in China, although short, has been very favorable and
better than Bank-wide and regional averages. The projected
disbursement profile is in line vith that for specific investment
loans in China. Estimated schedules of expenditures and
disbursements are given in Annex 2, Tables 2 and 3.
Accounts and Audits
3.27     Records of expenditures on civil works, vehicles and
production equipment and materials vould be compiled by county
project offices (para. 4.01) on the basis of accounts maintained by
the township fish farms and county FDCs. These records would be
forwarded to municipal project offices which would prepare
consolidated accounts including their own records of municipal level
expenditures on civil works, equipment, materials, technical
assistance and training. After certification at the municipal level,
these accounts would be forwarded to MAAF's Fisheries Project Office
(FPO) for review. The FO would in turn compile a complete report of
project expenditures. Assurances were obtained from the Government
at negotiations that consolidated project cost accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and the
audited accounts submitted to IDA within six months of the close of
each financial year. The audit review would examine and determine
that funds disbursed against statements of expenditure had been used
for the purpose for which they were provided. It is expected that
the State Audit Agency of the central government would audit the
consolidated accounts submitted by the FPO.
Environmental Effects
3.28     The project would not have any adverse effect on
environmental conditions. Water drained from the ponds would have a
high biological oxygen demand and be deficient in dissolved oxygen;
however, drained to irrigation systems, these characteristics would
not be detrimental and the water would have value as fertilizer for
crop application.



- 23 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MNfnAGMSN
Prolect Organization and ImRIementation
4.01    General. The proposed project would be executed by the eight
city governments under the overall direction of the Bureau of Aquatic
Products (BAP) in the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and
Fisheries (NAAF). A Fisheries Project Office (FPO), established in
BAP, would coordinate project activities in the eight cities and
serve as the main link with IDA. Each project city, acting through
its BAP, bureau of finance (BOF) and other technical agencies, would
be responsible for carrying out project activities in the counties
and districts under its jurisdiction. City and county (district) BAPs
would provide experienced technical and managerial personmel to staff
municipal project offices (NPOs) and county (district) project
offices (CPOs) established to manage overall project planning and to
supervise the inputs of local government agencies in the execution of
project physical works. Commercial fisheries entities--city and
county fisheries development corporations or other types of entities
authorized to engage in commercial activities (hereafter collectively
referred to as FDCs), township fish farms and state farms--would
operate the support facilities and fish ponds developed under the
project. The Government and each of the project cities would enter
into Onlending and Project Implementation Agreements setting out
their respective obligations in project implementation. Signing of
the Agreements with each of the project cities except Shanghai, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness. Signing of the Agreement with Shanghai, as
well as delivery of a satisfactory legal opinion on the Agreement,
would be a condition of disbursement for the Shanghai component of
the project. The organization for project implementation is shown in
Chart 2.
4.02    Fisheries Proiect Office.  The FPO within MAAF would be
responsible for maintaining project accounts and submittinxg
disbursement applications to IDA; monitoring construction schedules;
administering local and overseas training programs; supervising
equipment and vehicle procurement; coordinating inter-ministerial
activities; and compiling semi-annual reports on project progress. A
Technical Advisory Group would be formed to assist the FPO in such
matters as selection of foreign consultants, selection of candidates
for local and overseas training, and organization of conferences and
exchange programs among China's fisheries research institutes. The
Group would consist of experts drawn from local research and academic
institutions such as the Shanghai Fisheries College, the Lake Tai
Fisheries Research Institute and the Beijing Fisheries Research
Institute./1  Experts appointed to the Technical Advisory Group would
serve periodically on short-term assignments as needed during the
life of the project.
/1 These institutions have been supported by two Bank projects, the
Agricultural Education and Research Project (Cr. 1297-CHA) and the
Second Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1516-CHA).



- 24 -
4.03     Municinal and County Proiect Organizations. Each city has
set up a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), an interagency
organization consisting of representatives from provincial and
municipal level technical and financial agencies involved in the
project. The PCC, chaired by a deputy mayor or a key provincial
official, would serve as a policy, planning and review board for the
project. To manage the day-to-day aspects of project implementation
on behalf of the PCC, each city has established a project office
within its BAP. Typically, the Municipal Project Office (WPO) would
consist of staff from provincial and municipal BAPs, from other
municipal agencies such as planning and finance, and from the FDCs.
By professional background, MPO membership would include engineers,
accountants, economists and fisheries experts. The MPOs would
coordinate and supervise overall project implementation in
participating counties and districts; prepare the annual work program
and budget for fish pond development and other civil works; secure
all government approvals; review site selection and technical
standards for design and construction of project works; approve
construction contracts and supervise construction; and arrange for
distribution of equipment and vehicles financed by the IDA Credit.
All project disbursements would be made by municipal finance bureaus
on the recommendation of the MPOs.
4.04    A structure of PCCs and project offices similar to that at
the municipal level would be established for the counties and
districts in the project. The CPOs would prepare work schedules,
construction contracts, and annual budgets for county PCC approval.
They would be responsible for site selection based on their review of
proposals for fish farm development submitted by the township
governments. In addition, the CPOs would prepare preliminary surveys
and designs and supervise local units involved in construction of
project works. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the
project offices at the ministry, municipal and county levels would be
maintained during project implementation and adequately staffed with
qualified personnel.
4.05     Fish Farm and FDC Operations.   Project ponds, both new and
improved, would be organized by the townships into fish farms of
about 50 ha and 75 households each. Each farm would operate under
GAIC license as a township (i.e. collectively-owned) enterprise with
stipulated borrowing, contracting ana ownership rights as well as tax
and accounting obligations (para. 1.11). Farmers would be selected to
join the farm enterprises on the basis of applications screened by
their own village councils and appropriate township offices. Basic
qualifications include a junior middle school education, demonstrated
skills in fish farming or another agricultural line, and the capaciLy
to contribute 30% of the first year's working capital requirements.
Once selected, a contract would be drawn up between the farmer and
the farm specifying the length of the contracting period, the assets
contracted (land, equipment, capital), and the contracting fee
including the amount of annual repayments on initial investment costs
and interest. As of 1985, standard contracts are for a 15-year



- 25 -
period. The farm management, usually a group of about six including a
manager, deputy manager, accountant, cashier, materials supply officer
and technician, would keep accounts for individual farmers, arrange for
sale of fish, supply transport, provide technical advice, and procure
bulk supplies. Salaries of farm management and farm operating expenses
would be covered as part of the farmer's contracting fee.
4.06      Project FDCs (para. 4.01) consist of support facilities--cold
storage plants, feed mills, hatcheries, trade centers, technical service
centers, and construction units--serving mainly but not exclusively
farmers in the project areas. At the municipal level, with the exception
of Shanghai, the FDCs would be state-owned corporations with charters
prepared and registered with the GAIC, in accordance with State Council
regulations (August 14, 1985). Drafts of the corporate charters for the
municipal FDCs of Beiiing, Chengdu, Chongqing, Hangzhou, Harbin, Nanchang
and Shenyang were reviewed and discussed at negotiations. Receipt of the
charters in final form approved by the appropriate office of the GAIC
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. The Shanghai municipal
FDC, the Shanghai Aquaculture General Farm, is not a corporation
registered with GAIC; however, under current government arrangements, it
is authorized to carry out production and commercial operations,
including activities planned under the project, through legal
documentation issued by the Shanghai Municipal Government. Delivery to
IDA of documentary evidence and a legal opinion with respect to the legal
status of Shanghai Aquatic General Farm, satisfactory to IDA, would be a
condition for disbursement of Credit proceeds for the Shanghai component.
4.07     An assurance was obtained from the Government at negotiations
that FDCs would be operated in accordance with FDC Operational Guidelines
acceptable to IDA. Draft Operational Guidelines (Annex 4) were reviewed
and discussed at negotiations. These Guidelines require that FDCs
maintain a debt-equity ratio not greater than 5:1; undertake or finance
activities which have financial rates of return not less than the
opportunity cost of capital; recover investments in feed mills, cold
storages and other support facilities generally within 15 years and in
vehicles within seven years, by appropriate pricing of output and
services; and have accounts prepared and audited annually. The municipal
governments have already transferred assets to the FDCs and would provide
additional equity to enable them to function during the startup period of
operations when profits would be inadequate to cover costs. At full
development, the FDCs would generate sufficient profits from the support
services to cover operating expenses, depreciation, and repayment of
investment costs.
4.08    Although specific arrangements would vary from one project city
to another, in general, FDC feed mills and hatcheries would supply
farmers directly through retail outlets while the other FDC subsidiary
services--technical service centers, trade centers, and construction
units--would operate on the basis of fee-for-service arrangements with
farmers and/or the township farm enterprises. The technical service
centers would cover their operating costs through fees paid for farmer
training (at about 80 yuan/man-month) and for technical services provided
to farm households. The technical services would be offered either on a



- 26 -
service call basis (at 1-2 yuan/mu) in response to particular problems
or on an annual contract basis (at 5-10 yuan/mu) for periodic testing of
vater quality, monitoring of disease prevention, fertilization and
feeding practices, and general problem solving. Trade centers would
generate income from fees charged for farm-to-market trucking, fish
retailing, sale of fisheries supplies and equipment, and overnight
accommodations for farmers involved in sales transactions. Cold storage
plants vould offer farmers the choice of storage space on a rental basis
or bulk purchase of the fish for storage and eventual sale by the FDC.
FDC construction teams would assist in new pond construction in
accordance with contracts drawn up with township farm enterprises.
Financial Management
4.09     Flow of Funds. The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed
against expenditures for vehicles, equipment, production materials, and
construction materials; for earthworks in construction of fish ponds;
and for overseas training, study tours, and consulting services. Funds
for these items would be onlent by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to the
project cities at 4.5% p.a. interest to be repaid over 20 years
including a five year grace period (Chart 3). The foreign exchange risk
would be borne by the project cities. These terms would be outlined in
Onlending and Project Implementation Agreements between the Government
and each of the project cities to be concluded as a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit or a condition of disbursement (para.
4.01). Most IDA funds would be disbursed directly to vendors under
standard ICB arrangements. An additional portion would be used by the
cities to cover the costs of technical assistance and training. The
remaining IDA funds and all domestic funds would be channeled through
local bureaus of finance and, upon approval of the local project
offices, would be disbursed for project expenditures incurred by the
FDCs and fish farms. The main source of domestic funds would be the
cities with additional contributions from counties, townships, and, in
the case of three project cities--Chengdu, Harbin, and Nanchang--from
their provincial governments--Sichuan, Heilongjiang, and Jiangxi,
respectively. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the three
provincial governments would provide in timely fashion the required
contributions.
4.10     Cost Recover,. The Government's economic reform policy since
1979 has supported a shift from grant to loan financing of development
projects. As a first step, funds from budgetary sources, both central
and local, were made available as interest-free loans. More recently,
the governments at various levels have begun to charge interest on these
funds. While these measures represent substantial and rapid progress
towards greater investment efficiency and financial discipline on t)-e
part of borrowers, there is not yet in place a uniform interest rate
structure which would apply to both bank loans and loans from budgetary
sources. As a result, there is considerable variation in interest rates
from one locality to another reflecting differences in local practices.
In the proposed project, in order to ensure consistency with other Bank
Group-financed agriculture projects in China, recovery of the IDA



- 27 -
portion of total funding would be at the following rates of interest:
(a) for equipment and materials for the trade centers and technical
service centers, at 4.5% and (b) for all other items, at rates
acceptable to IDA. An assurance to this effect was obtained from the
Government at negotiations. An understanding was reached that the
criteria for acceptability would normally be rates comparable to the ABC
prevailing rates for development loans, and that their acceptability
would be reviewed by IDA from time to time. An understanding was
reached with the Government at negotiations that the interest
differential between MOF's rate to the cities and the cities' rate to
the FDCs and fish farms (ABC rates) would accrue to the cities to cover
the foreign exchange risk associated with the project and to reinvest in
freshwater fisheries development. Domestic funds would be recovered on
terms and conditions determined by the various local governments. These
terms provide for full cost recovery but at interest rates somewhat
lower than ABC rates.
4.11     The municipal and cotnty project offices would have primary
responsibility for monitcring the repayment of project costs by the
various project entities to the finance bureaus.  In the case of fish
pond development, funds for equipment, vehicles, construction materials
and labor would be provided primarily by cities, counties, and townships
and also by the IDA Credit. The mechanism for recovery of these funds
would be stipulated in contracts between the farmer and the farm (para.
4.05) and between the farm and the GPO. The fish farm management would
coordinate collection of contractual payments from individual farmers.
Funds thus recovered would be deposited in the farm's account in the
local ABC branch for transfer to the account of the CPO. Payments
recovered by the CPOs would in turn be channeled to the appropriate BOFs
in repayment of project costs funded by the counties, cities and IDA.
The townships would recover their investment in pond development through
taxes on profits of project fish farms.
4.12   Funds for development of FDC support facilities would be provided
from the IDA Credit for vehicles, processing equipment, construction
equipment and materials and from the provinces, cities or counties for
other costs, mainly civil works. FDCs' financial obligations and methods
of repayment in respect to the loan funds would be outlined in contracts
between the FDCs and the cities and counties. The MPOs would be
responsible for recovery from the FDCs of funds originating above the
county level; the CPOs would handle recovery of county investments.
Execution of Project Works
4.13   Arrangements for execution of project works would vary from city
to city depending on current contracting practices and the size of the
available labor force. Fish pond construction would be carried out
during the off-season under contracts with county construction teams or
township work units. Contracts would either be assigned to these teams
or units on terms established by negotiation or awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding. Construction methods in Chengdu, Chongqing,
Hangzhou, and Shanghai, would be labor intensive. In the three northern
cities and Nanchang, seasonal labor shortages necessitate supplementing



- 28 -
manual with mechanized construction methods. In these cases, the
municipal FDC construction teams, provided with additional equipment
under the project, would be assigned contracts by the NPOs to assist
in earthworks construction. Construction of roads, water and power
lines, and civil works for FDC support facilities (feed mills, cold
storage plants, technical service centers, trade centers) would be
carried out for the most part by county level construction companies
attached to specialized agencies (e.g. Water Resources and Electric
Power) at that level. Such contracts are increasingly being awarded
through competitive bidding. Contracts for fish pond construction and
infrastructure development would be drawn up between the fish farms
and various local construction units. Construction of FDC support
facilities would be handled through contracts between the concerned
FDCs and these units. Contract arrangements and construction would
be supervised by MPOs and CPOs assisted, in some cases, by
specially-organized work supervision offices. Once the project is
fully operating, the MPOs and CPOs would be reduced to small units of
one or two persons within the BAPs responsible for coordinating
project accounting and cost recovery with the local BOFs.
Monitoring. Evaluation and ReRorting
4.14   The MPOs in cooperation with the CPOs would monitor and
evaluate the project's impact and economic benefits. Each township
fish farm enterprise and FDC would provide information on
construction progress on a regular basis to the appropriate CPOs and
NPOs. After the construction period, the farms would provide regular
and timely reports on their stocking rates, composition and balance
of species overall, feeding rate and feed conversion ratios. The
CPOs and MPOs would also monitor production and productivity by
compiling data on harvest, prices and net earnings of selected farms
on a sample basis. FDCs would submit income statements and balance
sheets annually to the MPO. The MPOs would be responsible for
analyzing these data and compiling a city progress report. To assist
in this process, the project would provide a computer to each MPO and
training in data management techniques to project office staff. The
city reports would be forwarded through the municipal BAPs to the BAP
in Beijing where the FPO would prepare twice yearly reports on the
overall progress of the project to be submitted to the IDA within two
months of the close of each project semester.
4.15     At the end of the disbursement period, the FPO, working with
the MPOs, would prepare a project completion report in which project
results would be compared with appraisal estimates. The PCR would
describe the changes in production technology and its adoption in
non-project areas, changes in prices in real terms resulting from
larger marketed volumes in urban areas, changes in earnings and
incomes for project farmers, changes in permanent employment
resulting from better pond management, and related cost recovery
issues. The economic and financial rates of return would be
recalculated on the basis of actual costs and re-estimated benefits.



- 29 -
V.  PRODUCTION. MQETING AND PRICES
Present Production Practices
5.01     The traditional polyculture system is based on stocking a
combination of fish species which are complementary in their feed
requirements and occupy different strata of the pond. Polyculture
aims at maximizing the efficient use of feed and nutrients occurring
naturally in the pond and allows higher stocking rates and yields
than would be the case under monoculture. Table 5.1 shows the main
species, their feeding regimen, and their habitat in the pond.
Table 5.1 MAIN SPECIES OF FISH CULTIVATED
Species                   Feed type             Pond area habitat
Silver carp                     Plankton feeder        Surface area
(Hypophthalmichthys molitrix)
Bighead carp                    Plankton feeder        Surface area
(Aristichthys nobilis)
Grass carp                      Herbivore              Middle layer
(Ctenopharyngodon idella)
Wuchang fish                    Herbivore              Middle layer
(Megalobrama amblycephala)
Black carp                      Omnivore               Bottom
(Xylopharyngodon piceus)
Crucian carp                   Omnivore                Bottom
(Carassius auratus)
Common carp                     Omnivore               Bottom
(Cyprinus carpio)
Tilapia                         Omnivore               Bottom
(Tilapia nilotica)
5.02     The fish stocking combination depends on the availability of
the nutrient input. The natural fertility of pond water, without any
additional nutrient input, is usually capable of supporting a yield
of 0.6-1.0 t/ha of silver carp, bighead carp and common carp. If
additional nutrient materials such as grasses, aquatic weeds and
animal manure are available, farmers can obtain higher yields by
introducing other species such as crucian carp, black carp, grass
carp and wuchang fish. Since grass carp is a highly preferred fish
and commands a higher market price, emphasis is placed on grass carp
culture where there is an abundant supply of green matter. Recently,
Tilapia nilotica has been successfully incorporated into the
polyculture system. Though this species is indigenous to the
tropics, it can be cultivated in most areas south of Beijing. The
species exhibits fast growth, low environmental requirements, and
flexibility in food demands.



- 30 -
5.03     Fish yield is determined, within the limit of the biomass
carrying capacity of the pond, by the growth rate of the fish, the
length of the growing season, and the stocking, harvesting and other
management practices. The optimal temperature for most warm water
fish lies above 20 degrees C. Fish respond to higher temperatures in
their environment by a faster metabolic rate, increased feed intake
and a more rapid growth rate. At temperatures below 15 degrees C,
metabolism slows down and growth no longer takes place. The growing
season in the project areas ranges from 130 days in the northern
cities to 280 days in the central areas. During the winter, the
biggest problem is to prevent weight loss as carp can lose over 25%
of their weight during this period iii cold climates.
5.04     Each city has hatcheries where artificial propagation
activities are carried out in the spring. Spawning is induced by
injection of hormones and eggs are collected and transferred to
hatching pools for incubation in flowing water to simulate natural
conditions. Hatching occurs within 36-48 hours, and fry are held
about 2-3 days until the egg yolk is absorbed and swim bladders
develop. The fry are then ready for transfer to nursery ponds for
about 30 days or until they reach a length of about 3 cm. They can
be distributed to larger ponds or sold to farms which have nursery
ponds. It takes another 4-5 months to reach the fingerling stage
(10-15 cm and 0.02-0.1 kg), by which time winter conditions have
slowed down fish growth.
5.05     In spring, when the water temperatures have risen to about
15 degrees C., farmers stock their ponds with the 1 year old
fingerlings. Stocking densities and feeding practices vary from farm
to farm depending on the availability of grass and animal manure.
Concentrate feeds are not commercially available, so if farms want to
practice semi-intensive culture, small pelletizers can be used to mix
a feed which emphasizes using materials available on the farm or
from nearby rather than the nutritional requirements of the fish.
These small on-farm feed making facilities, however, lead to
inconsistencies in feed composition and on-farm storage gives rise to
deterioration of raw materials, which inhibit growth potential and
may lead to vitamin deficiences and the presence of toxins.
5.06     Harvesting begins in autumn, by which time grass carp will
have reached about 1.3 kg, silver carp about 1.0 kg and other species
range from 0.2 to 0.6 kg. It is done mainly by the use of seine nets
dragged from end to end of the pond. By the Chinese New Year, most of
the market size fish have been harvested and the pond stock has been
depleted. Annual yields range from 0.8 tons/ha in Nanchang, where
production typically relies on the natural fertility of the ponds
without supplementary feeding to 4.4 tons/ha in Hangzhou, which has
already developed more advanced production techniques.



- 31 -
Fu-ture Prod-ucti-on Practices
5.07    In the traditional carp polyculture system, the large
variety of fish species stocked in the system makes full use of the
diversity of food types. However, the bioasss of food organisms
(including plankton) competes with the pond fish for oxygen and adds
to nitrogenous wastes which must be metabolized by nitrifying and
denitrifying bacteria. Thus, the fish biomass carrying capacity in a
polyculture system is limited by the balance between fish and food
organisms.
5.08    Since surplus grains are now available for aquaculture
production and with pressure for producing higher yields of fish from
limited water surfaces, the Chinese are endeavoring to move to the
next higher level of technology--development of feed intensive
systems. In a feed intensive system, the pond fish depend on
artificial feed for their energy source, and the development of food
organisms in the system is discouraged. In this type of system, the
fish are the only oxygen consumers and the only producers of
nitrogenous wastes; thus, the fish biomass carrying capacity can be
higher than in a semi-intensive system. Instead of a variety of
natural foods, fish would be fed grain based pellets with vitamin and
amino acid additives formulated to satisfy the nutritional
requirements of a particular species. With a feed formulation
designed for one species, the stocking of additional varieties would
reduce the feed conversion efficiency.
5.09    The proposed project represents a transitional stage between
the traditional carp polyculture and a modern feed intensive
monoculture. While in most of the project ponds, the traditional
combination of carp species will be stocked and grass application and
manuring will be continued, artificial feeding will be introduced in
the standard pond management practices. The project would support
feed formulation research (para. 3.15) and the adoption of aerators,
automatic feeders and modern water quality monitoring equipment in
Chinese aquaculture, thus paving the way for the introduction of
intensive monoculture systems.
5.10    Project area farms would receive supplies of fry and
fingerlings from centrally located hatcheries. Each farm would have
nursery ponds, the total area of which would be roughly in the ratio
of 1:4 to the total area of production ponds. Individual nursery
ponds range from 0.2 to 1 ha in size. Nursery pond operators would
grow the 30-day old fry (2-3 cm long) to the fingerling stage ( 10-15
cm and 0.02-0.1 kg). In the lower and middle reaches of the Yangtze
River, the fry are avilable by late May and the growing season would
have a 180-day span, ending in early December. In Northern China,
fry would not be available until late June or early July and the
growing season is limited to 100-110 days, as ice covers the pond
starting in Novenber. In northern areas, nursery operators continue
to care for their fingerlings through the winter under the ice.



- 32 -
5.11     Nursery pond operation, which can be either monoculture or
polyculture, involves grass application, manuring and artificial
feeding. Although grass and autotrophically and heterotrophically
produced natural foods are essential in the system, artificial
feeding is especially important. Nursery pond operation is more
demanding than production pond operation--younger fish require higher
daily food rations, more frequent feeding, are more sensitive to
water quality and more susceptible to predators. The specialized
techniques for nursery pond operation would be developed through
training at technical service centers and frequent visits from
extension workers.
5.12     Production ponds would vary in size from 0.3 ha in Chongqing
to 1.6 ha in Harbin. In most cities, each household would operate
two ponds (either two nursery ponds or two production ponds). Ponds
would be stocked with fingerlings of two different size categories:
large 0.1-0.4 kg fingerlings, often retained from undersized fish
from the prior year's production, and 0.01-0.05 kg fingerlings from
nursery ponds, which will grow into either small market fish or large
fingerlings for the following year.
5.13     Production ponds in the project areas would continue to take
advantage of the natural pond nutrients and, where available, grasses
and animal manure. Local conditions would be an important
consideration in selection of the appropriate species and the
stocking density. For example, farms in Chongqing lack grass land
and the number of grass carp stocked cannot be high. These ponds,
however, receive heavy agricultural runoff rich in nutrients and
natural productivity of the ponds is very high. In these systems,
plankton-feeding silver carp and bighead would be the dominant
species stocked. In Chengdu, ponds constructed on former floodplain
areas would have a cement lining which would not provide a favorable
environment for heterotrophic production. Aatural productivity would
be poor, ponds would require relatively high inputs of feed, and
manure application would be limited. Common carp would be the
dominant species in these ponds. Ponds would be stocked to yield the
amounts and species as shown in Annex 3, Table 4.
Yields and Production
5.14     At full development, yields are expected to range from 4.5
t/ha in the northernmost city to 7.5 t/ha in the southern cities.
These yield increases would be obtained from higher stocking
densities and better growth potential as a result of properly
constructed and maintained ponds, availability of higher quality
balanced feed concentrates, and provision of training and extension
advice on pond management. Though considerably higher than the
average yields at present in the project areas, the projected yields
are in line with those already obtained from intensively managed
improved ponds in the respective cities. Assuming that the degree of
expertise in aquaculture technology would be similar in all eight
cities, the main constraint to production would be climate. The



- 33 -
length of the growing season is more favorable in Shanghai, Hangzhou,
Nanchang, Chengdu and Chongqing than in Beijing, Shenyang and Harbin
and projected yields reflect this situation. Total annual output at
full development is expected to reach nearly 100,000 t. Present and
projected yields and production for project ponds in each city are
shown in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2 PROJECT POND AREA, YIELD AND PRODUCTION
Pond Area              Yield               Production
Pres./a Full Dev./b   Pres.  Full Dev.    Pres. Full Dev.
- - - ha - - -       - - - t/ha - - -      - - - t - - -
Beijing       1,067     2,133         1.5      6.0       1,600   12,800
Chengdu         107     1,280         3.0      6.8          320    8,640
Chongqing       367     1,475         2.6      7.5          963   11,060
Hangzhou      1,667      2,733        4.4      7.5        7,400   20,500
Harbin          267      1,333        2.4      4.5          640    6,000
Nanchang        640      1,707        0.8      7.5         480   12,800
Shanghai      1,467     2,533         1.8      7.5       2,750   19,000
Shenyang         -      1,667           -      5.2           0    8,750
Total  5,582    14,861                           14,153   99,550
/a Ponds to be improved under the project.
/b  Includes improved ponds and new ponds.
Marketing and Prices
5.15 Recent economic reforms allow fish farms as well as indivi'-!al
farmers to handle marketing directly or to sell through retailers,
mainly local aquatic products marketing corporations. The marketing
corporations buy fish in bulk through contracts specifying quantities
and prices. Contract prices increasingly tend to approximate prevailing
market prices. Quantities above the agreed amount may be marketee by
the farmer himself. At present, inadequate transport is a constraint to
those farmers who wish to sell their fish directly in urban markers.
Vehicles provided to fish farms by the project would facilitate tne
marketing of fish produced by participating farmers. The project would
also establish trade centers which would offer market information and,
for a fee, handle marketing. Farmers would be encouraged to use the
facilities of the trade centers, but would not be obligated to do so.
5.16     Strong markets for freshwater fish exist in eight project
cities and their surrounding areas. Following sizeable increases in
rural and urban incomes during the period 1978-84, per capita
consumption of fish and fish products increased from 3.5 kg to 4.4 kg



- 34 -
in rural areas and from about 6.0 kg to 7.8 kg in urban areas.
Consumption is even higher- -about 12 kg-- in urban households with
annual per capita incomes of Y 600 and over, which account for
approximately 39m of all urban households. In response to increasing
consumer demand, national ireshwater fish production increased from 1
million tons in 1978 to 2.25 million tons in 1984 while the average
nominal retail price nearly doubled to Y 1.86/kg (Annex 3, Table 9).
Incremental supply of fish from the project is e-timated at about 25%
of the existing supply in project cities. This increase in supply of
fish is not expected to cause any decline in prevailing fish prices
since income elasticity of demand for fish is generally above unity and
per capita incomes are projected to increase annually, in real terms,
by about 4% in urban areas and 7% in rural areas dtuing 1986-90,
assuming a population growth of about 1% p.a. Fish prices, however,
vary seasonally, peaking during the five major holidays and dipping to
the lowest point during the late fall-early winter harvesting season.
During these periods, prices generally fluctuate about 20% above and
below the year-round averages. Table 5.3 shows the seasonally-adjusted
farmgate prices for January 1986. In the financial and economic
analyses of the project, these prices are assumed to remain constant.
TABLE 5.3: FISH PRICES
Grass   Silver  Common   Gold-   Til-  Wu-   Weighted
City       Carp    Carp    Carp    fish       apia chang  Aver./a
- - - - - - - - - - - - (Y/kg) - - - - - - - - - - - -
Beijing      2.86    1.66     3.20     2.64     2.64    3.20    2.58
Chengdu      2.60   1.90    3.00       3.40     2.40           2.67
Chongqing    2.50    1.66     3.20     3.20     2.40           2.35
tangzhou  3.20    1.80    2.40     5.00     2.00            2.37
Harbin       2.80    1.70     3.40                              2.81
Nanchang     2.64    1.54    2.64      2.42     2.20            2.24
Shanzhai     3.00    1.81     2.29     3.06            2.99    2.45
Sheny ng     2.44    1.75     3.94     2.06                    2.58
/a Weighted average based on projected stocking and yield structure.



- 35 -
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS
6.01   The project would convert existing wastelands and low-yield
lands to productive use, strengthen and expand the production base in
freshwater fisheries, and help to fill the growing gap between the
demand for and supply of fish in eight major cities. The project
would also strengthen the institutional capabilities of local
fishwries agencies to promote fisheries development consistent with
sound technical standards. The project would directly benefit some
15,000 families or about 60,000 individuals involved in fish
production.
6.02    At full development, the annual incremental output of fish
would amount to about 85,000 tons or about six times the 1985
freshwater fisheries production in the rroject areas (para. 5.14).
In January 1986 prices, the gross value of incremental production
would amount to Y 210 million, equivalent to US$ 70 million.
Production of fish feed at full development would be about 75,000 t.
The availability of balanced fish feed would allow higher stocking
densities, increased yields, higher feed conversion ratios, and
facilitate adoption of monoculture (para.3.08). The sse of vaccine
produced by the vaccine factory would help fish farmers to keep the
stocks in ponds for longer periods and allow marketing of the
larger-sized fish now in demand in urban centers.
Eumlovment and Incomes.
6.03     At full development, fish pond operations would create an
annual incremental demand for labor of two million man-days,
equivalent to 6,600 full-time jobs, in rural areas surrounding tbe
cities, where there is currently seasonal underemployment. The
project-assisted support facilities woul: generate about 500
full-time jobs. Fish pond construction would require about 5 million
man-days, equivalent to 16,800 jobs during the first four years of
the project. The per capita annual incomes of the families operating
the fishponds are expected to range from Y 600 to Y 1100, compared to
the without project income of about Y 300.
Financial and Economic Eyaluation.
6.04.   The financial rate of return (FRR) for the project is
estimated at 200,and the economic rate of return (ERR) at 28%. By
city, the financial rates of return are estimated to range between
17% and 21% and the economic rates of return between 22% and 36%.
The rates of return were calculated by extending the analysis of a
series of typical models for new ponds, improved ponds and support
facilities to the total estimated investments. In the case of fish
ponds, the typical models reflect the differences by city in
investment costs, operating costs and the yield structure. The rates
of return for fish ponds were calculated for a 25-year period and for



- 36 -
other investments for a 15-20 year period, using January 1986 prices
for all inputs and outputs. Costs of training and technical
assistance were included for the purposes of calculating the rates
of return for the project. Costs in US$ were converted to local
currency at the exchange rate of Y 3.0 - $1.
6.05     Financial Analysis.    The aggregate rate of return for new
fish ponds would be about 17% and for improved fish ponds, about
28%. Regional differences in civil works and operating costs account
for the variations in the rates of return by city, which range
between 16% to 18% for new fish ponds and 16% and 36% for improved
fish ponds.  F.As for both new and improved fish ponds would
generally remain at about the opportunity cost of capital (12%), with
reasonable changes in both the investment costs (+10%) and gross
output value (-10%). The FRRs, especially for new f'sh ponds in the
cities of Beijing, Chengdu, Chongqing, and Harbin, tend to be
sencitive to major variations in operating costs, mainly relative to
feed and fingerlings which account for about 70% of the total
operating costs and 40% of the gross output value. The project,
therefore, focusses on efficient management of nurseries and improved
feed conversion ratios through provision of technical assistance to
fish farms in fish propagation and feed formulation. Cash flow
analysis indicates that cost recovery would require periods ranging
from 12 to 15 years for new fish ponds and from 9 to 12 years for
improved ponds. The cost of vehicles would be recovered in seven
years. Tables 1 and 2, show the typical models for new and improved
fish ponds.
6.06     The investments in feed mills and cold storage plants which
will be managed by the municipal FDCs on a commercial basis
(para.4.07) are estimated to yield FRRs of about 33% and 20%,
respectively (Annex 3, Tables 5 to 7). The rates of return for feed
mills and cold storage plants tend to be sensitive to variations in
both costs and benefits, and, therefore, FDCs would ensure that these
are operated with cost efficiencies, improved output coth through
greater capacity utilization and efficient management, and
appropriate output pricing. The support services to be provided by
FDCs through their various subsidiaries--trade centers, overwintering
facilities, vaccine factory, hatchery, and technical service
centers--are expected to be priced at levels sufficient to cover
costs with a modest surplus. The benefits of the support services
will be reflected in improved pond productivity.
6.07     Economic Analysis.   Models used for financial analysis have
been adjusted for purposes of economic analysis by excluding taxes
and by employing economic prices for project inputs and outputs
(Annex 3, Table 8). All fish production from the project was treated



- 37 -
as nontraded and valued at the financial prices received at the
farmgate (para. 5.15) 1/. The other project outputs including fish
feed were valued at .he economic prices derived from the economic
cost of inputs used.
6.08     The prevailing financial wage rates are Y 2.5-3 per day for
unskilled labor and Y3.5-4.5 for skilled labor. The underlying
assumption in deriving the shadow price for unskilled labor (1.5-2.3)
was the marginal value product of labor which currently reflects the
high level of underemployment and low productivity in the project
areas. The shadow price for skilled labor is assumed to be
equivalent to the financial wage because other employment
opportunities exist in China's expanding construction industry.
Local financial prices for chemical fertilizers, construction
materials, and machinery and equipment have been adjusted to
approximate border prices, after making allowance for quality
differences. The lands that would be used for the project's fish
ponds would be mainly wastelands and low-yield swamp lands. The
economic cost of these lands has been reflected in the without
project situation in both financial and economic analysis.
6.09      ERRs for new and improved fish ponds range between 23% and
>50% (Table 6.1). Because economic prices for rural labor and some
nontraded inputs are lower than financial values, ERRs are higher
than the FRRs. Sensitivity testing indicates that the ERRs for new
and improved fish ponds are fairly sensitive to changes in output
prices though not as sensitive as the ERRs for feed mills and cold
storage (Table 6.2). A decline in output prices, however, is not
expected to occur (para. 5.16). Switching values (a percentage change
in a stream that would be required to drive the net present value to
zero when all other streams remain unchanged) were calculated at the
opportunity cost of capital (12%). No single variant proved crucial
to the project's viability. Similarly, the project would remain
economically viable with an assumed doubling of economic labor costs
to equal the financial wage. At a discount rate of 12%, the net
present value of the project is estimated at Y 675 million (US$225
million equivalent).
1/ The consumption conversion factor for fish, estimated at 1.25
based on the economic value of foods that would be most likely
substituted for fish, has not been used for this economic analysis
because of the difficulty in assessing the quality differences of
food items that go into local consumption and the effect of current
price distortions. The project's economic rates of return are
expected to be about 3% higher if a consumption conversion factor is
applied.



- 38 -
Table 6.1 ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN FOR FISH PONDS
City                Base        Revenues        Costs       Revenues -10O
case          -10%          +10%1         Costa +10S
NP     IP      NP      IP     NP      IP     NP     IP
Beijing         23     39       18      28     18     30      14      20
Chengdu         24     31      20       23     20     24      16      17
Chongqing       24     36      20       27     20     28      16     20
Hangzhou        35    >50       28      36     29     38       23     24
Harbin          25     21       20      15     20     16      15      11
Nanchang        30    >50       24      47     25     48      20      35
Shanghai        34     46      27       34     28     35      22     25
Shenyang        23     a/      19       a/     19     a/      15      a/
NP: New Ponds; IP: Improved Ponds
a/ The project does not include any fish pond improvement in Shenyang.
6.10     The  economic rates of return for feed mills and cold storage
plants would be about 38% and 25% (Table 6.2). The economic cost of other
support facilities and services, which are expected to yield an economic
rate of return of at least 12%, has been taken into account in calculating
the project's overall economic rate of return (para.6.04).
Table 6.2 ECeOOMIC RATES OF RETURN FOR SUPPORT FAC_LITIES
Facility     ERR(%)   Revenues  Investment  Operating   Revenues -10%
( Base case)   -10%    Costs +10%  Costs +10%  Inv.Cost +10%
Feed Mill      38        18           35         22            16
Cold Storage   25        17           23         19            15
Risks
6.11 The project faces no significant technical or management risks.
Chinese fish farmers have had long experience with integrated carp
polyculture, and aquacultural practices and technology to be introduced by
the project have been proven elsewhere. Managers, technicians, and farmers
in the project areas have the requisite incentives and basic skills to
apply the improved practices and technology. Moreover, technical service
centers established by the project would train extension staff and fish



- 39 -
farmers to ensure optimum efflciency ln pond operatLon. Some risk may
be associated with development in timely fashion of foed concentrates
specific to the requiroments of each project city; availability of
balanced feed is critical to achievement of projected foed conversion
factors and yield levels and ti facilitating introduction of
monoculture systems. To minimize this risk, local research
insitutions would be commissioned to carry out feed formulation
studies and feed mills would be established and equipped with
laboratories for analysLi of feod mixes.
6.12 The project mnaDgemnt structure is already in place at the
central, municipal and county levels with project offlces staffed by
experienced personnel from the SAPs and other agencies involved in
the project. A system of fish farm  as township enterprises and
county- and city-owned FDCs has been organized in order to put
fisheries production and support services on a fully commercial
footing in contrast to past practices. Given the fact that these
enterprises have strong backing from local governments including
initial financial and technical support as well as support for
operational independence, no problems are expected in project
implementatLon and, therefore, in achievement of projected levels of
production.



- 40 -
VII.       ENTS RSACHED AND
7.01     At negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government on
the following:
(a) the training component would be carried out in accordance with a
program acceptable to IDA (para. 3.15);
(b)  project coat accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and the audited accounts would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each financial
year (para. 3.27);
(c) the Project Offices at the ministry, municipal and county levels
would be maintained during project implementation and adequately
staffed with qualified personnel (para. 4.04);
(d) FDCs would be operated in accordance with guidelines acceptable
to IDA (para. 4.07);
(e)  the three provincial governments would provide in a timely
fashion the required contributions (para. 4.09); and
(e) recovery of the IDA portion of total funding would be at the
following rates of interest: (i) equipment and materials for the
trade centers and technical service centers, at 4.5%, and (ii)
for all other items, at rates acceptable to IDA (para. 4.10).
7.02     An und&  standing was reached with the Government that the
interest differential between MOF's rate to the cities and the cities'
rates to the FDCs and fish farms would accrue to the municipalities to
cover the foreign exchange risk associated with the project and to
reinvest In freshwater fisheries development (pare. 4.10).
7.03     The conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) State Council approval of the Development Credit Agreement;
(b) conclusion of Onlending and Project Implementation Agreements
between the Government and each of the project cities, except
Shanghai, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (pare.
4.01); and
(c) delivery of the corporate charters of the municipal FDCs (except
Shanghai) to IDA (para. 4.06).



. 41 -
7.04     The conditions of disbursement for the Shanghai component would
be:
(a) conclusion of the Onlending and Project Implementation Agreement
between the Governmont and Shanghai, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.01); and
(b) documentary evidence and a legal opinion with respect to the
legal status of the Shanghai Aquaculture General Farm,
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.06).
7.05     Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a credit of SDR 52 million on standard
terms. The Borrower would be the People's Republic of China.



- 42 -
AN 1
Table 1
Pr-ojecl Locations
Project Cities        Conties/         Fish hnproed   Proposed Ne
Districts       Fars      Ponds (ha)     Poancl (ha)
Beijing                      5           18           1,333          1,333
chengdu                      8          147            107           1,467
Choagqing                    7          126            367           1,303
BMngzl9u                     4           54          1,667          1,333
Barbln                       4           10            333          1,333
msnobmng                     5           20            800          1,333
SbzDghai                     7           75          1,467          1,333
Shenyang                     5           49              0          1,667
Tbtal                    45           499          6,074         11,102



-43-                                                 ANNEX  1
calm                                   Table 2
FRIUSRMATZR PZgUURiI ViOET
Project Area Statistics (1954)
Beijing    Chenb du  Chongqing  BRangaho       garbin  lanchang   Shbaghai   Shenyang
Population ('000)
City total                            9,332      8,539      13,944       5,330      3,770       3,190     12,048       5,261
City proper                        53619       2,539       2,733       1,433      2,592       1,060      6.881       4,135
isb farmers                             8         10           6           9          7           6         13           5
Project couutiesld.stricts              154      1,156         292         862         20       3,190       1,131        142
Labor force                            78        559         125         569          7         791        763          41
Per capita incom  (T)                 324        332         330         292        275         293        298         315
Area
City total (tq ka)                   16,809     12,391      22,341      15,596      1,493           -      6,186       8,515
Total aquaculture (t000 ha)              17           8         24          55          5          50          27          9
Fish pond culture t'000 ha)               2           1         10           4          2          13           4          1
Tields and Consumption
Total aquatic products ('000 t)          10           7         24          26          5          20         205          5
Avsrgo pond yield (ttha)                1.5        3.6         2.6         4.4        2.4         0.8         1.8        1.8
Fresb- ter fish consumption
(kglperson)                           1.6        1.2         1.9        4.9         1.9         6.0       12.0         5.7
Sources: Bureau of Aquatic Products, KAAF
Statistical Yearbook of China, 1985



-44-                                               ANNEX 2
Table 1
CH=
nMSHUT  FISHEInS PRWECT
PUot <t Smy br Cdty
38±JIZ  Chwak  0    1:11 H-Miaz Hbzbin  Nmchwm SimWm mWiyazi            ITal        FJ..
T Y ltlim -                         Y a -MSm a- 3-
Pad   hu=ia0
EurtiLf                   20.23   10.69    13.24   31.11   14.26   21.26   25.99   17.70  1!4.37   51.46       20
S;qa Pmotiw                0.00    7.82    18.39    1.15    0.00    0.00    9.88    0.00   37.24   32.41       20
FI lng                     0.00    7.70     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.70    2.57       25
Wrt- S41y aM Oah.q.        9.49    3.92     1.62    3.97    5.51    5.64    3.23    3.61   36.99   12.33       25
ioM PLmCO 0.00    00                        0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.33        0
R  S4f1y                   2.83    2.72     0.42    1.54    2.74    1.84    2.91    1.U    16.88    5.63       45
3.26    0.73    0.62    1.21    1.72    0.89    2.88    1.81   13.16    4.39       20
FaPRA 3z1d1z               3.62    2.55     0.35    0.92    l.95    5.61    2.76    1.26   19.02    6.34       15
Lavd O_Umt±a1 pRyu         3.72    2.30     3.52    2.87    2.10    2.15    4.29    2.40   23.35    7.78        0
mvir_mug                   0.69    0.53     0.56    0.32    0.54    0.35    0.28    0.57    3.8      1.28       0
Cmt. It.                   1.37    0.70     0.58    0.52    1.36    0.76    0.60    1.35    7.04    2.35        0
Stab1                     45.22   39.71    39.20   43.60   31.18   38.10   52.81   30.38  320.59   106.9       20
Suprt Pilritim
F1md 3.Im                  2.W     4.02     2.67    2.68    2.62    2.79    2.74    1.34   20.87    6.96       45
QId  Sta m                 0.53    0.00     0.13    0.00    4.97    2.90    0.00    2.49   11.07    3.69       45
-.1d                       1.01    0.00     0.48    2.8    1.72    2.59    0.00    0.40    9.07    3.02        15
Tdudm1 S!Vo                0."4   0.75      0.60    0.32    0.32    0.23    0.05    0.07    2.87    0.96       iS
uvandreariq                0.60    0.87     0.35    0.49    0.00    0.00   O0.0    0.00    2.30    0.77        10
v    .=I  !:wz y           0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.63    0.00    0.63    0.21       45
0O.0    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    1.21     l1
agig1nsen                  0.07    0.0      0.07    0.04    0.23    0.07    0.07    0.09      0.7    0.24       0
amot. mpt.                 0.14    0.10     0.14    0.08    0.53    0.50    0.17    0.38      1.8    0.61       0
subtotal                   4.78    5.80     4.58    6.48   1,.03    9.08    3.67    4.56   52.9s   17.66       32
mmx2U                      7.22    5.17     4.74    5.73    5.48    4.27    6.66    4.97   44.25   14.75       90
BuLldfmace                1.83    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.10    1.34    0.00    3.04    9.31    3.30      300
EM:Rvatoa                  0.00    0.00     o.00    0.00    0.33    0.56    0.00    0.64    1.53    0.51    l30
Subtoal                    9.05    5.17     4.74    5.73    8.91    6.17    6.66    8.65 s5.08   18.36         92
Prod. Pht-ral S t4=n
PLV&Cuicn HJeia1a          2.27    2.20     1.40    2.00    2.55    2.00    2.00    1.00   15.42    5.14       20
Pro*zm  tp4et              2.01    0.00     1.85    1.37    1.40      .00    0.83    0.07    7.53    2.51      S0
Subtt                      4.28    2.20     3.25    3.37    3.95    2.00    2.83    1.7   22.95    7.65        30
TEaniq and Tech. A t          0.28    0.28     0.28    0.28    0.28    0.28    0.28    0.28    2.24    0.75       60
B_ ct                        63.60   53.15    52.06   59.47   50.34   56.0    66.25   4.94  453.85  164.63        30
Riya1a c S        _           5.63    4.86     5.20    3.69    6.81    6.10    4.10    3.67   40.05   13.35      30
PFr   citizq±m               13.88   11.60    IL.36   22.98   32.73   12.23   14.46    9.     99.07   33.02       30
Toa  "M:P 03c  e             83.11   69.62    68.62   76.13   77.88   74.37      .8l   58.43  592.97  397.66      30



- 45 -              CH=                ANNEX 2
Table 2
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
Project -pe-ditUbe Scdshule
1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   Ibtal
Fart2J=rks                    2.57   12.35   16.47    17.50    2.57   51.46
Slops -r-te*#iaon             0.62    2.98    3.97    4.22    0.62   12.41
Pand  riqin                   0.13    0.62    0.82       0.87    0.13     2.57
Whtir Spply anr Drainage      0.62    2.96    3.95       4.19    0.62   12.33
Flood Etr ±iai                0.02    0.08    0.11       0.11    0.02     0.33
Power Sqpply                  0.28    1.35    1.80       1.91    0.28    5.63
14ads                         0.22    1.05    1.40       1.49    0.22    4.39
FMan Eiildings                0.32    1.52    2.03       2.16    0.32    6.34
Tard Pt <wzuFt-n PaymLnts    0.39    1.87    2.49        2.65    0.39    7.78
EnglnasriLn                   0.06    0.31    0.41       0.44    0.06    1.28
Cart.  Ipt.                   0.12    0.56    0.75       0.80    0.12    2.35
SUbtotal                      5.34   25.65   34.20    36.33    5.34  106.86
Plod Nills                    0.35    1.67    2.23       2.37    0.35    6.96
C6lA Stm-age                  0.18    0.89    1.18       1.25    0.18    3.69
Tra3e Center                  0.15    0.73    0.97       1.03    0.15    3.02
Thdmnical Servick  center    0.05    0.23    0.31       0.32    0.05    0.96
0Dvezvditering                0.04    0.18    0.25       0.26    0.04    0.77
Vaccimn Patctry               0.01    0.05    0.07       0.07    0.01    0.21
HBtdiery                      0.06    0.29    0.39       0.41    0.06     1.21
Frqise.rizr                   0.01    0.06    0.08       0.08    0.01    0.24
coot. tmut.                   0.03    0.15    0.20       0.21    0.03     0.61
Subtotal                      0.88    4.24    5.65       6.00    0.88   17.66
Vehiaes
Truhic                        0.74    3.54    4.72       5.01    0.74   14.75
Bulldzers                    0.16    0.74    0.99       1.05    0.16    3.10
EX avatr                      0.03    0.12    0.16       0.17    0.03    0.51
Subtotal                      0.92    4.41    5.88       6.24    0.92   18.36
Prd. Materials & Euipurit
Productiai materials          0.26    1.23    1.64       1.75    0.26    5.14
Prcduct±~Equ.ipI:nt           0.13     0.60    0.80      0.85    0.13    2.51
Subtotal                      0.38    1.84    2.45       2.60    0.38    7.65
framing and Tbrh. AssiStarxQ    0.04    0.18    0.24        0.25    0.04    0.75
BB  Coot                         8.23   39.51   52.68   55.98    8.23  164.63
IqMdaica1  t * eies              0.67    3.20    4.27    4.54    0.67   13.35
Priom                            0.29    4.23      9.85    15.56    3.10   33.02
Total PrOject Cot                8.52   43.74   62.53    71.54   11.33  197.66



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
CHINAL
FRESHATERFISHERIES P1MWr
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA                Disbursements              Disbursement Profile / a
Fiscal Year/ Semestral  Cumulative Cbmulative    Year/            (%)
Semester     - - (uS$ million)- --      (%)       Semester
1987                                                 Year 1
1st                  1.2         1.2           2         1st           0
2nd                  1.8         3.0           5         2nd           5
1988                                                 Year 2
1st                  6.0         9.0          15         1st          16
2nd                  9.0        18.0          30         2nd          29
1989                                                 Year 3
ist                  9.0        27.0          45         1st          44
2nd                  9.0        36.0          60         2nd          61
1990                                                 Year 4
1st                  9.0        45.0          75         1st           -
2nd                  6.0        51.0          85         2nd
1991                                                 Year 5
1st                  6.0        57.0          95         1st
2nd                  3.0        60.0         100         2nd
/ja Disbursement profile for China - specific investment loans
Cbmpletion date: December 31, 1990
Closing date:    June 30, 1991



CHINK
FWEIinea ILUHaiM 9"Z00
Ihtop Iater6sli nd Eulp_t
(('it - -  4jing-  - -  - - - Oh u - - -C mgLng -                 -  - - -  fhi - - -   - R-tslz    - - -  - t o h   - -  -   - Sh    _7   - -                         --                * -  -.
Cot    oty       Cost       Oty      Cart       Qty      Cost      Oty      Cost       Qty       out      Qty      Coot        OtY       Cost      oty      Cot                   Qty    cowt
(U1) (tCo/eul (US W00O) Itan/ed) (MSWI   OO t((nd/0e4 (US$  000) (tOm/la) (Ms *0001 (tonrIsel t  U000MtS    l Wm ue1 WS O0   I Itons/s OW I '00 (tmu e W   '000) ION)                        a)WI )
rlNOaXIl  RLMUS
Loorcting steel                50    1,000       0.35    1,0l       0.28               0.0    3,0I 0      0.76    1,500       0.38   1,900       0.48      5,920      1.48   2a,O          0.5            16,470      41.
Structural Steel              0SO    1,000                  700      0.11     1200       0.00               0.00 W      00      0.13   1.000       0.25                    0                                  4,400     1.10
AlU. wisi e ras               1S0                            0o      0.01                                                                                                  0                                     so     0.01
Aum. wre imt. core)           100                            so      0.01                                                                                                  0                                     NO     0.81
Zint-plate tub                600                                                                   50      0.03                          200      0.12                    0                                   250      0.15
TDtel                               2,000      0.25    1, l0       0.47    1,200       0.30    3,100      0.79    2,000       0.50   3,100       0.815     5,920      1.48    2,000       0.50            31,0        S."9
StJPWRTI  FPCILitT(S  3QUIW
reed proeasiNg                                  451.3              910.00              606.67             606.67              606.67             671.67               S71.67              303.33                        4.02
Cold Storp                                      183.I 3                                 60.00                                 646.67             426.67                                   323.13                        I.64
Total                                        628.67              910.00              666.67             606,67            1,253.3I           1,098.33 I71.47                            626.67                         .
Tech. 5srvice
[arex mneirw              1,000         I      1.00                0.00                0.00               0.00         1      1.00        I      1.00          I      1.00         I      1.00                 S     0.01
Video reardin  set        1,000         1      3.00         1      1.00         I      3.00        1       1.00        2      6.00        1      3.00          1      2.00         1      1.00                 9     0.03
v and video player          500        20     10.00        10      1.00       14       7.00       20     10.00         I      1.50 S     I       7.10          6      3.00        20     10.00               In      0.05
C"es, 35 -                  So0         2      1.60         1      0.80        2       1.60        2       1.60        4      1.20        2      1.60          1      0.80         5      4.00               9I    0.02
Slide pojector               300       JO      9.00                0.00                0.00       20      6.00                0.00               0.00          2      0.60        6       1.80 S                    0.02
t1ro8ru c .ow             2,000                0.00                0.00                0.00               0.00                0.00        I      2.00                 0.00                0.00                 I     0.00
Btnr1i5r mLcrso.            950        19     16,05         9      6.55       20      19.00       20     19.00         1      0.95        I      0.95          I      0.o1                0.00                71     0.07
Tursrcular  a1crosc.      1,480         1      1.48         1      1.48        2       2.46        1       1.48        4      5.92        1      I."                  0.00                0.00                10     0.01
Pl(eetLh3 microc.        1.225        23      2.45         9     (1.02                0.00       20     24.50         2      3.41        2      2.41                 0.00               0.00                 15     0.04
DtIl sicroe.              4,310         I      4.10         1      4.10         1      4.10               0.00                0.00               0.00          I      4.10                0.00                 4     0.02
OxyqI, Fi, twp Ottet   1,800           20     36.00         9     16.20       20      16.00       20     l4.00         6     10.80        5      9.00                 0.00                0.00                sO     0.14
Micromt                   4,000                0,00                0.00                0.00               0.00                0.00        1      4.00                 0.00               0.00                  I     0.00
Amino  cidanal,est       10,670                0.00                0.00                0.00               0.00                0.00        1     10.67                 0.00               0.00                  I     0.01
Spsctrphorc              IS000                 0.00                0.00                0.00               0.00         1     15.10               0,00                 0.00               0.00                  I     0.02
Mictoo .rter              4,000         1      4.00                0.00         1      4.00        1      4.00         1      4.00        1      4.00          1      4.00        1       4.00                 7     o. 0.
Watet ,1al. snslyzer    6,O00                  0.00                0.00                0.00               0.00         2     17.40        1      e.60                 0.00                0,00                 1     0.03
Electrriic  tC 10    30,000                    0.00                0.00               0.00                0.00                0.00               0.00          1     30.00               0.00                  I    0.02
micmto, ultia thin   22,000                    0.00                0.00                0.00               0.00                0.00               0.00          1     22.00               0.00                  1     0.02
xIsc.                     3131          1       3.32               0.00                0.00               0.00                0.00               0.00                18.00               0.00                  1    0.02
total                                         94.01               SO.16               7I.6S 105.5                            6e.42              56.41                17.45              23.00                        0.56
VE311CLES
or                        10,000        if,    100.0                 0.0 1.0                                0.0        10     100.0        2      20.0                 0.0                 0.0                 23     0.22
S1 Tip box                11,000                 0.0                 0.0                (.0                 0.0        10     110.0                0.0                  0.0                0.0                 10     0.11
tS                        10,000        40     400.0       30      300.0        9      90.0        a]     030.0       40      400.0      27      270.0        80     600.0                 0.0                309     3.09
2.9I S e6fiyerated       1I,000                  0.0                0.0                 0.0                 0.0                 0.0       4       60.0                 0.0                 0.0                  4    0.0O
2? Lrve rlsh              11,500                 0.0                0.0                 0.0                 0.0                 0.0       2       23.0                 6.0 0°0                                  a    0.02
1. 7T                      6,000      170   1,020.0       (10     780.0       175   1,050.0      a10      660.0       70      420.0      20     160.0        ISO     90060 40            30.0                695     5.17
1.29I   Double Cab         6,000                 0.0                0.0                 0.0                 0.0                 0.0      I9     224.0                  0.0       100     600.0                           3 I  0.82
IT                         1,800       100     180.0                0.0         a      46.4        20     116,0                 0.0      40    233.0          30     116.0                 0.0                IU      1.09
.5S                        5.000       20      100.0       to      400.0       60     200.0        20     100.0      150      7s0.0      66      330.0        s0     400.0        40     200.0                516     2.54
spe pacts                LA                     1 67                 0.0                960               204.2                17.0                0.0                                   in.o                         O."
ToXI                                  1340   2,366.7      340   1,40lO.      252  1(562.4        233   1,910.2       2t0   1,797.0     210   1,349.0        130   2,216.0       200   1,332.0              2,0O      140.
t W1711 Il tJUl t
165t  LILnd mO  ckast   80,500            4     122.0                                                                            0.0       5     402.5                             10    1605.0                19      1.51
22SW lUend  iIldner  103,500              2     207,0                                                                   8      526.0                0.0                                     0.0                 10     1.04
165W  RilIdmier            74,750                 0.0                                                                            0.0               0.0                              1      74.6                 1     0.07
E cmator                   46,400                 0.0                                                                            0.0        5     322.0                             2      92.0                  7    0,32
Trailer                    93,I00                 0.0                                                                            0.0                0.0                             1      91.1                  1    0.09
Poiklhit                   37.000                 0.0                                                                    1      17.0                0.0                                     0.0                  1    0.04
spre parts               La                      70.4                                                                            0.0               67.6                                   127.4                  0     0.27
Spreortal              ul               6    608,35                                                                    9     065.0      10      702.1                            14   1,192.5                 39    .337
Pertiliser                    ISO                                             S80      120.00                                   0.00     257      18.55                                    0.00              1,057     0.16
Fish  eal                     300    1,450    415.00                         1,000    300.00                           500   150.00      119      35.70                                    0.00             1,069      0.92
Peed ditive                 3,500       200    700.00                                   0.00                                    0.00               0.00                                    0.00                200     0.70
Vit_ln                      3,500        8     280.00                                    0.00                            5     17.50     0.1       0.35 1000                                                    I5     0.30
Poly_lde silk fiber         2.000                                               SO    150,00                                                                                               0.00                 50     0.15
TOtjl                                      1,415.00                                 570.00                                  167.50             74.60                                     0.00                        2.23 °
pznrrIcu 00iiIRWS Z
Adretor                      420                  0.0                 0.0                 0.        0          0                 0,0                0.0         1       4.2                 0.0                  1     0.0
O                       3000                 0.0                0.0         1       3.0         I       3.0        I        3.0       1       3.0                  0.0        I       3.0                  5     0.03                 X
*1wdt                         400       400     160.0                 0.0                 0.0                0.0         4       1.6                0.0                 0.0        10       4.0                414     0.17
TW                                    400       160        0          0        1          3        1         3         5       4.6       1          I         1       4.2        11         7               420      0.18 l&



Cnn'
nusuvin wiminu uaiuK
Coat Estimate and PFaming of Telchical aaist"iee
Fehe ins of man-meoth
by Celeedar Tear               T.tel    Total
Deseciption                                           l__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _            m         oat         Proposad   C osatria
i"       Uea7      17t      1ag       zgw    mathe (nl 000)
A.  study Toere for UPW  nO and FM staff
1.  Iapuctia of fish breedig operations                  7                                                       42         NWet Comnay  Dessari
2.  lenpectios of feelill eqnipiat is                    1                                              7        42         U.S.  Japa
3. 1aintoanee skills for coeatruetioa
mechiuery add cold storaee   ui t 5a                                                                          0           24 U.S., Jeffs
4.   naetlp*Cti  of feed-iAteatlva uorA1ture
*ystme for catp                                                         O                           e        44         Voet leuntsy
5   laopectie ot fesd-liat.slve  eeeee.lture
ayatem  for tilapis                                                     I                           0       40         iJa;.  lbilippitns. smg Fagg
3. Oversea  Training
1. lateruatiosal camleranesac ad visits
to reeearcb inatitutioas Sd e"Ipmnt
.amlactur.rs (IOC and O aesior staff
and   nicipal researeh staff)                       12        7         0        6                 33       It           -
2.  Viab extritila  ead fed formlstial  -
abort term traiaiog (10 persoes a 3 ma)
(Ikeicilpl reaaereb staff)                        1i         1$                                    30      105           -
3.  Viab faoc smmussget - abowt tero
training (10 Pereses a 3 emg)
(lie and 0 Staff)                                   5                                              10       is          Jas
f. Feed mill nanageent - abort tern
trelinig (10 Fersoes * 2 wee
(Fc and 10 staff)                                  10        10                                    20       70           -
C.  lecel Training lb
1*  Finaucial nwaagementibusines maasgmat
(Iknicipal dad coenty VW and *0 staff)              18       16       1i        Ie        16      s0         24
2. Senisnrn, eof*eracas on squmcnltnre
tsckotlogy (seeior aquacelture technicians)          4       15        15       15        is       64        19
D. Consulting Servicve
1.   inanecial analyst to assiat in conductial
locel traisiag proarea in fiancial analysis
of fisberies projects (e.g. F10)                              2                                     2        28
2. Comter specialists to conduct training
for local T0 staff In data manageent
*ad analysis                                                  3                                     3        39
irya
study tofus                                 J2      212
Overseas training                           93      400
Local tralnine                             14"       43
Coasultieg services                          S       85
Totel         2U0       74
Is  To be fianeced by the TMC and reiabuTe e         the Project.



40       In   a  nnaaam99aaaa   a   c..9.99.UUSOCSUOU9  hr.0 e
|~~~                                                           -                                                              a   F *   _       
*  ~      ; 4:          O         0"CO.00 0                 -oci           c     -0"  2~       - 
_---------------_-------------- __                      ---- -_ _ _-_ ---.
C1e                                                                                                              11201ee          eeO @su  Io
4)           a                             A  P                I IA       g m
.0~~~|s be                                        e             8        e.8       X^   
VP04
5   E 0         n    A0 00rmmooooo       a   000        goa   003    00            5
_                                                                   S hOO3
D ~ ~ ~ ~~p                 0         00_________________________________
E ~  ~    ~      3 __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _     __     _   _  -n-        __  _   _  _
<           e  ;1      s              S:t       ^;S      ^ Z   ^  >               ^"g  e   ^>       R'   4*F  t^8- Sa-t
----- ---- -----  ---- --      --- -  -  -   --  -  -  -   --  -  -  -   --  -  -  -   -
|~ ~      O        AO H^    OU                                                  it 9e   t n   8    S   S R
-iC;                                      C      WE                         i
~~            Pt:                                        an--"A               
71   2   Rs      3 l H
et   .
iii          ii        !1                                                 P i". !0t as As-
2 0   0v AN    33 A
Si   S        Ii        U, Ai II            i
AN    II!.1 I                      A I                 1
as                          .naitIM                        -in            119



0   0                    2   ^ ii i 1                   2 11       b          n             *          i      n 2 |           |~~~~~~~~~~~-.11
~fl' r R V rr   rEe!c      rvr   Vif                                                                           VS1  f
r           au 
a  ~O 
M  n~~~~~~~. 
j 5:   ja    I 2   1!  t   :::z::::2~ :                              I 2      I j    I                                    I L ;
as
-_ -___- - - - - - - - - - - - -- -  - - - - - - - -   - - - -- - - - -------- --- -------- -------- ----
D    FN  VN  b*  > N-                  S                                                   f              iii
- -   -                        C             .- -o-o  _O_                                                       
___________-------- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - -
I           M
8-8  ~~~  r   r_  ~~~ _    gr                        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                       |^ ~r  M 
C.~~                                                                                                                     ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  :
94 00094  - - 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
C oooo coo   000  2oo 02                             oo3000o2             00023o e          eeo  c  ooC co 00e e33
------------------------------------------------- _____---------------
----------------------------------------------------------------------
0                                                                                                                                                                              M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
o 0000 eee   000   000lee  e00                                                      am ;e00    00 eC      o CO:  CCC: CCC   CCC
_ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _          _
_   e-- ---    Ie,e,e    ue-   -        -      -          - - 'ee   p-------------e e                  -eee---------------
. _ _  _ _   _ _    _ _    _ _   _ _  _   _ _    _ _   _ _    _ _    _ _   _ _  _   _ _    _ _.__         _    _ _   _ _  _   _ _    _ _   _  _   _ _    _r



------ ----------- ---------  ---------  ---------
| @eS-e8400eeOe    mmmc    a  amamamam  P. *  Peo  g
~~~aj~l                             .  .  e 
_                                                 m
G E |   ----------------------------------_--___________
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a  --------------------------------------
Vi Vi V1tXi  -ER    2ill3U1|l S 
I                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
---   -- -- -- -- --  --- -- --  -- -- --  --
I                        IIiiI~~~~~~!!1 



CHM
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
Fuian,ial Fanau  to Nw Fish Faw, BUisjii
(Yuan 000)
UrE               pPRWC    YR        YP      YR3      YR4     YR5     YR6      YR7     YRB      YR9     MO1  YRll-15  MR1-24  Y1025
Pr.OrCM  MM AREA (ml)                          B00     6W      60       BO      600     600      Boo     Boo       W      bO0     600      60W     6W
Yiald(psr mu)                                  l50     200     250      300     350     400      400     400      400     400     400      400     400
Ttk1 Produxtlan(OOOq)                       120.0   160.0   200.0   240.0   260.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0
NURSERY PRND AMEk                              200     200      200     200     200     200      200     200      200     200     2W       2W      2W
Yield(per mu)                                   B4     113      141     169     197     225      225     225      225     225     225      225     225
Total Procdctmon(Sooorq)                      16.8    22.6    28.2    33.8    39.4    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0
aroz   atpit Vaus a/ (1)                   379.3   506.6   633.0   759.5  865.9  1012.4  1012.4  1012.4  1012.4  1012.4  1012.4  1012.4  1012.4
coSMS
Ewavatlion an Plooeet b/                658.0       _        _       _       _       _        _       _       _        _       _       _  -329.0
slope PEotactien                             -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -        -       -       -       --
Pcnd Lining_                                         _       _        _       _       _        _       _       _        _       _       _
Water Sqpply aM  Cminroe b/              369.0
Por Uaply a/                              63.0                                        _                                                      -31.5
FloalI fctt*ctdancm
Fmlm d/et ti                             116.0       _       _        _       _
Farmuai1dii */                           127.0       _                _               _        _       _       _        _       _       _   -63.5
land oauaticm Psyus t/                   186.0
Hlec1laas g/                             107.4       _        _       _       _          _     _       _            1-53.7
Vehiolm hV                               151.0       -        -       -       -       -        -       -        - 151.Oj                    -2.
Subttal (2)                          1777.4                                                                       51 0                    -720.
OPEP0'DATDS a i/
PoItien Panda
F]ipriings                                52.8    79.6    95.5   127.4   143.3  159.2   159.2   159.2   159.2   159.2   159.2   159.2   159.2
se    & fertilizar
NUH* oot                                   6.J     6.8      6.2    10.9    1. '-   13.6    13.1    13.1    13.1    13.,6    13.1    13.1    13.1
Fartlizaer                                 5.6     5.6      5.6     5.6      5.6    5.6      5.6     5.6      5.6     5.6     5.6      5.6     5.6
Feed                                      59.2   101.2   121.4   161.9   192.2   202.4   202.4   202.4   202.4   202.4   202.4   202.4   202.4
Utilitim                                  40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0   40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0
ah_icals                                   8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0      6.0    8.0      6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0     8.0      6.0     8.0
31.2    22.4    26.9    35.6    40.3   44.6    44.5    44.6    44.8    44.6    44.6    44.6    44.6
Roplacment                                 0.0     4.0      4.6     6.4      7.2    6.0      8.0     8.0      6.0     8.0     8.0      8.0     6.0
Mair*wAnce                               .8.0      8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0    6.0      8.0     8.0      6.0     6.0     6.0      8.0     6.0
Mana9int                                  12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0   12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0
Truaiortatien                              9.6     9.6      9.6     9.6      9.6    9.6      9.6     9.6      9.6     9.6      9.6     9.6     9.6
other                                      6.0     8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0    8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0     8.0     8.0      8.0     6.0    'u 
Subta1 (3)                            203.2   263.6   305.6   389.6   431.6  519.2   519.2   519.2   519.2   519.2   519.2   519.2   519.2    0Q a,
M -i
U_ w



i|im                            crT -RN
11Th               PFDM1    VYRI  WI           YR3      VR4     Y     RV                   __      __      U0   U15   S16-24 Y5
NrMZ PM-d
FiJer1ings                                  6.4      8.0      9.6    12.8    14.4      16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0
I'hIrS                                      1.0      1.3      1.6     2.1      2.3      2.6      2.6      2.6     2.6      2.6      2.6     2.6      2.6
Foed                                       14.4    18.0    21.6    28.8    32.4        36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0
LabOr                                      10.2    12.8    15.4    20.5    23.0        25.6    25.6    25.6    25.6    25.6    25.6    2S.6    25.6
utilities                                  10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0        10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.')    10.0
Chticals                                    3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0
Rplaont                                     0.6      1.0      1.2      1.6     1.8      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0
Mainternnu                                  2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      ' 0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0
ffsgmont                                    3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
TraznoptatIai                               2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0
Other                                       2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0
Subtotal (4)                            54.9    63.1    71.3    87.8    96.0    104.2   104.2   104.2   104.2   104.2   104.2   104.2   104.2
1TAKE  (5)                                       -        -       -     38.0    44.3      50.6    50.6    50.6    50.6    50.6    50.6    50.6    50.6
Total ost  (2+3+4+5) (6)                   2030.5   326.7   376.9   515.3   *71.9    674.0   674.0   674.0   674.0   825.0   674.0   674.0   -46.2
N4*t   1     (1-6) (7)                    -1656.2   179.9   256.1   244.1   314.0    338.3   '38.3   338.3   338.3   187.3   338.3   338.3  1058.6
nr*m*a        Rutn  (8)             10.0  -1666.2   169.9   246.1   234.1   304.0    328.3   328.3   328.3   328.3   177.3   328.3   326.3  1048.6
MsT RBX^ERY )V
(a) Paypna~ of IZ Ftmd (y 0.40X)
(i) Vehicles (Y 0.1531)                            25.1    32.7    32.7    32.7       32.7    32.7    32.7
(ii) Other intints  (Y 0,249in                      41.4    39.9    39,9    39.9       39.9    39.9    39.9    39.9    39.9
'b) Tom1 ,qwr=M*S (y 1.021)                    _               93.5   144.0   144.0    144.0   144.0   144.0   144.0   144.0   144.0   _           _
(c) Twhip (s 0.356)                                                                                                 50.9    50.9    50.9         -
(d) Interest an Iking Capita                            2.0     3.0      3.0      4.0      4.0     5.0      5.,      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
ubttal ("l,                                      66.5   169.1   219.6   220.6    220.6   221.6   221.6   239.8   239.8   199.9           5.0      5.0        L
Net PevenLe after debt  oervio (7-9)                   111.4    87.0    24.6    93.5    117.8   116.8   116.8    98.6   -52.4   138.5   333.3  1053.6
FM - 16%
-- - 23%
a/ DtPt is valu  at en averap priou of Y 2.58/kg fcw PJCi9timi pmd  aid Y 4.15/ig fa r urmry pmd.
b/ Includ1     eartthmrl  (Y 0.8/I3)g .ly cama  (y 0.9/u3)1 alUvuVtt  and sIluic gate  (Y 0.15/r), and a pAp taticrn (Y 34,500).
c/ InDu1d  pcortinate oot of hiowowltae lira (Y 11,500/ko)  0I oltage line (Y 9,2 oo/k) a i, trartard .mdtatimw  (Y 8,050).
d/ sil  nyc  (V 2600/lu), aid, culVortA ard brid9  (Y 9,200 ach).
*/ F     dire  (350 .2) rd  iW          (700 .2) at Y 15012 and V 106/.2trweotively.
f/ 8tila to f r  f                        or d   l       at Y 16,S00j'  and for lc-yield 1 ands at Y 51,000mu.
q/ lncl ern   t1                 i  n        ,  mvaticn and ndmW cxat.
h/ _ ta  psticste at of    i     tcr ptoject fat.
4/ .  am t.icnau, -  Anm  3, Table 3.
j/ Vehicle  in year 10 will ba ftbnhd fhn  intnal 
k,l w .mw*.  zqsym    at the cloa  of the year. Interst alculated an ImA ftuds at 8a  p.a., an lol qgauinmt ftn   at 4.5S p.a., ardi e   dkng apital at 8e p.a.
ThbcuhIp  will pzwidL dbn pryuet of up to 30% of the projet cots Ord collect tax   in lieu of intaret
H 1n



KMa
FlMHWATUR 1SN1E138 PFOJCCt
Flniuwal l P wuN to Dprcvd ?Pi h ftz, mmijin
rrc                PRCC             YR   YR       YR3   YR4     YRRY5                     YRB       D      YR0    wCn-1  YR1J-24  YR5
PRODUCT4 FM  AM  (ma)                  goo00 goo00 0              am      gm       60       G00     SW0      600      a00     gm       O        600 g
Yield(pw sm)                            100     200      300      400     400      400      400     400      400      400     40       40       400     40
Tttalo   Pma9xtioc(OOOUj)              60.0   160.0   240.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0   320.0
N1 RW  PN AM                            20W     200      200      20      200      200      20W    200       200      20W     20W      200      200     2M0
Yield(pt.au)                             50     106      167      225     ZS       225      225     225      225      U25     225      225      223     225
TlOtal Pc   Uc 0n(OW01)                10.0    21.7    33.3    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0
LM  OAtp.At vhlul  O/ (1)           247.9   502.7   757.5  1012.4  1012.4  1012.4  1012.4  1012.4  1012.4  1012.4  1012.4  1012.4  1012.4  1012.4
IVwtiaon ad Pln  cont 4_   354.0                       _        _                                          - _  _                          -   -  177.0
slke  Pz&ctiA--
faWt r etActj ab                      -     7OS-       '        -       -        -        -.      -        -        -                -             -2
nPi dl                                     46.6                --_23.
ram   i1i~-                                54.3        -                                  -       -2-                                                7.2
ZaMi    m  al  ou~     t                    u1.i       _                                  _       _        _        _       _        _        _   -20.71
Vehdclm9/                                  lS 151.0    --0
DA*GW a(2)                         -   631.5                                       -       -        -            -    151.0 J/                 -340
Otum aII h/
FlingwllUn                         40.0    79.7   119.5   159.2   159.2   159.a   159.2   259.2            139.2   Z59.2   113.2   195.2   .13.2   159.12
see a femtniLmw
"mum coet                           4.6     7.7    10.7    13.19    13.1    13.1    13-1    13.1    13.          13.1    13.1    133.1    13.1-    13.
1fttllz                                     1.9      3.7      5.6      5.6     5.6      5.6     5.6      5.6      1.6     5.6      5.6      5.6      5.4
Fad                                27.1    65.6   144.0   202.4   202.4   202.4   202.4   202.4   202.4   202.4   200.4   202.4   202.4   202.4
UtXliti.                            9.6    19.7    29.9    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0
ChImlc                              2.4     4.3      6.1      S.0      6.0     6.0      8.0     8.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0
16.8    24.1    35.5    44.8    44.6       4.8    44.8    44.8    44.6    44.8    44.          44.6    44.6    44.4
_______ nt                          2.4     4.3      6.1      6.0      6.0     6.0      8.0     6.0      6.0      0.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0
4.0     5.2      6.7      *.0     8.0      8.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0
4.0     6.7      9.3    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    U2.0    2a.0
TWmuoztatia~                        1.6     4.3      6.9      9.6      9.6     9.6      9.6     9.6      9.6      9.6     9.6      9.6      9.6      9.6
Othw                                1.6      3.7     5.9      6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0     6.0      6.0      4.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0
S*ta1 (3)                      114.4   249.3   344.3   519.2   519.2   519.2   519.2   519.2   519.2   519.2   519.2   52.2   U9.2   529.2
N W



rT                      I    YR1      YR2     YR3      YR4     Y                 YR7      YS      Y       310   311-14  W15-24   S
rlinprlinp                         3.2      7.5    11.7    16.0    16.0    16.0       16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    1i.0    16.0    16.0
tuure                              1.6      1.9     2.3      2.6     2.6      2.6      2.6      2.6     2.6      2.6      2.6     2.6      2.6     2.6
rned                               6.0    16.0    26.0    36.0    36.0    36.0        36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0    36.0    34.0    34.0    36.0
abowr                              8.4    14.1    16.9    25.6    25.6    25.6        25.6    25.6    25.6    25.6    25.6        S.6    25.6    2A56
Utllitim                           5.0      6.7     5.3    10.0    10.0    10.0        10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Cho icel                           1.6      2.1     2.5      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     2.0     3.0      2.0
1.2     1.5      1.7     2.0      2.0     2.0       2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0
=ilSt nano                         1.2      1.5     1.7      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0
thmug  nt                          1.6      2.1     2.5      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0     3.0
Ttrawortatin                       0.6      1.1     1.5      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0
Othtr                              1.2      1.5     1.7      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0
Sbtot   (4)                    31.6    55.6    80.0   104.2   104.2   104.2    104.2   104.2   104.2   104.2   104.2   104.2   104.2   104.2
ImmSS (S)                                       _        _       _    50.6    50.6       50.6    50.6    50.6    50.6    50.6    50.6    50.6    50W6
Tbtkl COte (2+3+4+5) (6)           146.0  1136.6   464.3   623.4   674.0   674.0    674.0   674.0   674.0   674.0   825.0   674.0   674.0   3332.
Net PVnvW   (1-6) (7)              101.9  -633.9   293.3   3U8.9   333.3   338.3    338.3   338.3   338.3   338.3   187.3   338.3   338.3   6fl.6
lrcrnmt*l fDvun  (a)                      -735.8   191.4   287.1   236.4   236.4    236.4   236.4   236.4   236.4    65.4   236.4   236.4   576.7
awr  -R Y  J/
(a)          of IS IWo (Y 0.400)
(A) =dalem  (Y O.1533)                           25.1    32.7    32.7    32.7       32.7    32.7    32.7
(ii) 0)sth    laMlitMEb  (Y 0.2490)               39.8    39.8    39.6    39.8       39.6    39.6    39.-    39.1    39.1
(b) T[m, gwmdltnnt  (Y 0.181 )                        26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0       26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    26.0         -        -       -
(a) TcuShil  (Y 0.25 -4                                       31.5    31.5    31.5       31.5    31.5    31.S    60.0
(d) Intro*it on Nor"q Cpital                           2.0     3.0      3.0     4.0       4.0     5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0
Stbtotal (9)                                    92.9   133.0   133.0   134.0    134.0   135.0   135.0   130.8    70.8          5.0      5.0     5.0
hat FRunu after debt *avios (7-9)                     2 200.4   255.9   205.3   204.3    204.3   203.3   203.3   207.5   116.5   333.3   333.3   673.6
iS - 31%
- - 40%
o/ Cutpnt is valud at an avea price of V 2.5/lu for apredctiln pnW and Y 4.15/lq tgor unury pon.
b/ DmtiUa  uezthvornl  (Y 0.3/12) I    Wly canl  (Y 0.9/3)u mulvvrts m  aluile gates (Y 0.15h), aid a pap .tiatw  (Y 34,500).
q/ DIfli paSflatlet c d       of t hbidt-lt gop lil (V 11,100/k   lu)   swltage line (Y 9,20OM) I          aid .temtatimu (n 6,050 Gem).
d, I e      S     (V 20,000)ta        rtn (Y 9,200 _ic).
O/   uow (150              S) tat V I"0 ad Y V 10r%'  u                     tively.
1/ f    t     U                                           ndinut   anwm t,   n   nd y omte.
g/ mpeaut ipwollnas   mit of v_de  tcrgnjs* faa,
h/trw mt_su,  _hin  3, itie 3.
1/ 'JUtiole layer 10 will bC aStt    lz*ensl n.ur:cl     .
j/ -~uu.fle zwar*_ at Uw elS otf an yar. D*aeet colcolted an UR buS at at p.a., at c            l  gownn t uds at 4.5% p.a.,  id a    ing capital at S p.a.
Ttln hwp wifl praufA dt py enet of p to 30 of the ptsect cme t   d collect tarx  in lit eo  int.ront.
N 
N,W



*  - 56 -                             Table 3
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
(a) Cp.mtli  Cuta of a  zo&aation    atFll atit
)ma
Dmii3ln  chig  anijiz   'rmgZh   HIbzn NszboMn  SiwAnia 2W,nyan
Fiix1Jzp  fa/             199      159       187      167      143      189      153      200
Se& f0tLl                  0        9         0       1         0       22       16        0
1m9m  cut                  17       12        30       24        a       24       18       18
i1izmu                      7        0        15        2        2        2       10       17
P%" b/                    253      449       306      376      243      215      405      186
utiliti_                  50        3        10       14       11      13.1       5       15
ctr eal                    10        6         6       10       10       10       10       10
bg"s cz              56       63        88       67       42       53       53       70
10       10        10       10       10       10       10       10
10       10        10       10       10       10       10       10
IbuztW  nt                 15       15        15       15       15       15       15       is
MmpozxrIaticn              12       15        15       15       10       15       15       11
otbmr                      10       10        10       10       10       10       10       10
Tbtal             649      761       702      731      514      586      730      572
(b) (tmrating   Ct  of a  NIou.y Ebx at Full          I
(Y'UMzM)
Beijirg  CQUW --- -~n  Nangzb    Hazbln N&rwMV Sianghai c-mnyurjw
Fr-  & fsror1ings a/       80       15        15       24       14       70       24        8
bnzm                       13       12        12       18       12       12       15       15
Feed b/                   180      171       198      220      181      250      255      203
lbges C/                  128      126       147      126       74      144      110       82
utilities                  50        3        16       21       16       15       31       21
Oinm cals                  15       15        15       15       15       15       15       15
E wau me01t            10       10        10       10       10       10       10       10
10       10        10       10       10       10       10       10
tmmqement                  15       15        15       15       15       15       15       15
_ran pr atik               10       10        10       10       10       10       1G       10
Otbr                       10       10        10       10       10       10       10       10
TItal             521      397       458      479      367      561      485      399
a/ Stocicddg ratAe and priom v&ry by city. PriLm  of fir1ingw   of gram. carp rang. ftr
Y 3.0/qg to Y 6.0/1k; of uilver crp frun Y 1.60/kg to Y 3.80/kg; of ommo carp fram Y 2.
to Y 5.60/kg; of goldfish f    Y 2.0/kg to Y 4.0/kg; and of tiapia fr  Y 0.05/piec.
b/ I-m    fiaml, .yabinn cam, r              Ip  l c  and uinals. Fod cIs rangs fra Y 0.4
in  Wiqng to Y 0.6/kg in Beijing.
c/ wage rati  amu auimid at a unifou level of Y 3.50/mn-day fer Prodctim papc arid Y 4.0
for ymery paxds.



-57                                           ANNEX 3
Table 4
am3m
FRESHWUTER FISHERIES PROJECT
rih S-    and Prie 8Muchwe
Ca> cup    Slver cup   S           p      Goldfish      Tilapia          IAi*tmd
2bttal    g
Yio'ld  K3E=- Yield  Prico  Yiel  ffi~- Yield  Prics  Yiold  Price  -YNLF-- Yield Prim
ooba  (Y3)O a) (A) 1nA  Py/   M               ) Pv    0 ) (Y/3)OAg   P1 a]vu   M
BDijiq      750   2.86  1,800   1.66  2,250   3.20    600   2.64    600   2.64         3.20  6,000   2.51
ehmn9ft     750   2.60  1,500   1.90  2,775   3.00    750   3.40    975   2.40               6,750   2.67
Oklr1ztblg   750   2.50  3,075   1.66  1,575   3.20    750   3.20  1,350   2.40              7,500   2.35
Ebupqzlb   1,500   3.20  2,625   1.80  2,025   2.40    225   5.00  1,125   2.00              7,500   2.37
ubin       G6400  2.80  1,350   1.70  2,550   3.40                                           4,500   2.81
Nadznq   1,500   2.64  2,250   1.54  2,325   2.64    525   2.42    900   2.20                7,500   2.24
Sbanhai  1,050   3.00  3,000   1.81    750   2.29    450   3.06                2,250   2.99  7,5W0  2.45
sbYyngq  1,500   2.44  2,100   1.75  1,500   3.94    150   2.06                              5,250   2.58



FRESIWATtR FIS1RIES PROECT
Flwioial RMobu to rod il1 (Feflt Symt), WzSWV
(Y 1000)
m1                             lR                51 W4            51 A     YR6      YR7     5        5        10 mm11l g1             5a13      14      IIU5
Grow Ou0zt Valim
Y 462/t    (1)                           -    2716.6  3104.6  3696.0  3696.0  3696.0  3696.0  3696.0  3696.0  3696.0  369.0  366.0  3696.0   36.0  3696.0
armd Ostl an  e/                      38.0      -        -       -        -        -                                      -                             -       -
CivL1 Itrim b/                        342.0         -        -        -        -       -            -        -       -        -        -       -        -    -171.0
Ut.llltls qt                           S0.0    -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -      -25.0
3LII_tt d,/                          640.0      -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -    -160.0
Izutallatiat                         130.0      -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -
T~~.Ain1uta'100.0                               -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -
Klaamlluwmu                           100.0     -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -
aktttal (2)                        1400.0          -       -        -        -       -            -        -        -       -        -       -        -    -356.0  0
OVEATIlh OOMI
1 -      iva3s e/                       -    1941.1  2213.4  2773.0  2773.0  2773.0  2773.0  2773.0    M.0  2m2.0  2773.0  2773.0  2M3.0   M3.0  2m.0
"WM                                    -       22.4    25.6    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0   32.0    32.0    22.0    32.0    32.0    32.0
FU 1                                   -       25.9    29.6    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0
Poimr                                  -       61.6    70.4    a8.0    88.0    68.0    88.0    U.0    U.0    88.0    U.0              U.0    U.0    U.0    88.0
TZjWupat                               -       28.7    32.8    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0
IJntaua"X"wL                           -       39.2    44.8    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0
9bdk  -  11.2    12.8    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0
Hbuac Snt                              -        7.0      5.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Tax                                    -       77.6    86.7   110.9   110.9   110.9   110.9          110.9    110.9    11.9    110.9    110.9   110.9   110.9   110.9
SUt*otal(3)                          -    2214.7  2531.1  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.1  316.9
Ittal  tt  (2+3) (4)                  1400.0  2214.7  2531.1  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  2807.9
Net mFvus  (5)                       -1400.0   501.8   573.5   532.1   532.1   532.1   532.1   532.1   532.1   532.1   532.1   512.1   532.1   532.1   868.1
w 'C' I
-Iw



trEK                            YFRI      Fa      Y3 YM            Y U4  m  YR6      Y7       Yh       Y       YlF    Yiull   YU12    YP3         W4       YR15
Loan   psaym*                              -    100.0   132.0   220.0   220.0   220.0   220.0   220.0   220.0   220.0   220.0
Intereat an %brkkwq Cspital t/             -    45.0    50.0    63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0
Subtotal (6)                             145.0   182.0   283.0   283.0   293.0   293.0   283.0   283.0   283.0   283.0
Net RFWflMo after Dobt aexvai (5-6) (7)           356.8   391.5   249.1   249.1   249.1   249.1   249.1   249.1   249.1   249.1
FM - 331
ER - 43%
a/ Payvirn*  to uloinpal  fncunit for the uon  of lard at Y 5000=/u.
b/ Inela.^ torage = = " (Y 160/32) and *odhln hall (Y 200/32).
q/ Includes water tower (Y 40,000)).
d/ InTludm  pelletizer (Y 99,000)1 pwr lines (Y 80.000)1 awd, lahorutory (Y 60,000).
e/ Ir=lu4- rqpe scd Cdk  (Y 300/tcn) sopa been Wkie (Y 540/tn) ; outton need cake  (Y 300/tmn): minead fw wY ll80/ten).
f/ Interzt calculated at St p.a. intereat for the fitut thure yxru wmaild be piLd b y the erd of Yr 3. At least 10% of
then inestnt cost is assua  to have bean  t fti  .jdty omotrlbuted by the mu nicipal acmnrt. T   loan
arount of Y 1.260 uLLU ion u 1d be repaid in eight equal ilntalloenta frcm Yr 4 t hrough Yr 11.
'0
un w



FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
Flnariial RUnTs  to FeSd Hill (!Dctndkr Systm), Narda
(Y '000)
r1124                            YR1      YR2     YR3      YR4      YR5       YRY YR            YI      V        MR1O     ml      YR12    YR13    Y14    UYS
REVENUE
Grms outapt Value
OY 462/t     (1)                           -    2716,6  3104.6   3696.0  3696.0   3696.0  3696.0  3696.0  3696.0  3696.0  3696.0  3696.0  3696.0  3696.0  3696.0
axrrs
Lard          ioa n a,/                 15.0      -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -
Civil Iorka b/                         266.0      -        -        -        -        -        -                                                                   -133.0
Utilitiei c/                            69.0      -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -      -34.5
Eplpit d/                             790.0      -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -     -197.5
Izrtallaticn                           160.0      -        -        -        -                 -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Tech.Auistarm                          100.0      -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -         _       _
MH m1larmm                             130.0      -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -
Bubt*tal(2)                         1530.0      -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -     -365.0   0
OPEPATIM3~I
Raw Haterials */                         _     1941.1  2218.4   2773.0  2773.0  2773.0  2773.0  2773.0  2773.0  2773.0  2773.0  2773.0  2773.0  2773.0  273.0
Wage                                     _       22.4    25.6    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0    32.0
Fuel                                     _       25.9    29.6    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0    37.0
Power                                    -       61.6    70.4    88.0    88.0    88.0    88.0    88.0    88.0    881.0    88.0    88.0    88.0    88.0    88.0
Trwa ort                                 -       28.7    32.6    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0    41.0              41.0     41.0    41.0
Haij*esus                                        39.2    44.8    54.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    54.0    56.0    54.0
sad                                              11.2     12.8    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0
Hi_tffit                                 -        7.0      8.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
TaIX                                             77.6    88.7   110.9   110.9   110.9   110.9   110.9   110.9   110.9   110.9   110.9   110.9   110.9   110.9
Bubtot.a(3)                            -    2214.7  2531.1  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9
fltaI CstA (2+3) (4)                   1530.0  2214.7   2531.1   3163.9   3163.9   3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  3163.9  2796.9
Net 1vue (1-4) (5)                    -1530.0   501.8   573.5   532.1   532,1   532.1   532.1   532.1   532.1   532.1   532.1   532.1   532.1   532.1   897.1
000'
I-X 



rim                             Wu      YR2       w3      YR4     Y        YR6     YR7      *m       Y      ViO      YRl    YR12 M ni V3 Wm14    YR15
Loan Plhpayaint                                110.0   165.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0
nt        anWrki  Capital /             -       45.0    50.0    63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0    63.0
Subtotal (6)                                155.0   215.0   303.0   303.0   303.0   303.0   303.0   303.0   303.0   303.0   303.0   303.0   303.0   303.0
Net 1wAme atter debt aevic  (5-6) (7)           346.9   35U.5   229.1   229.1   229.1   229.1   229.1   229.1   229.1   229.1   229.1   229.1   229.1   594.1
F  * 31%
ER - 38%
a/ Payrnts to umlcipal gcmmret for the te of lnld at Y 5000/mu.
b/ Irmlud. storgea building (Y 160/in2) offtica ad lab (Y 140/.2); mahine hall (Y 200/m2).
c/ Inczi^ h boiler (Y 30,000) ard wmttr iupply systm (Y 29,000).
d/ Included extruier (Y 503,000), hxbrnl1ll (Y 52,000) xcnveyor (Y 40,000)i cooler (Y30,000).
e/ rnl1deh rape seed cake (Y 300/ton) lowya bean cake (Y 540/ton) I cotton oeei ca   (Y 300/tcn) ; misd flour (Y 180/tmn) .
f/ Interest calculated at 8t p.a. Intarest for the first three yeamu would be paid bY the wd of Yr 3. At least 10% of
the lwnest¢nt C05t L aa"md to hew been   t fro  eqpity cntrtibuted by the ma nicipLL gernInt. hs lan
anM* of Y 1.377  illlion would be rapaid in eight equal ixutal2mnta from  Yr 4 t hrugh Yr 11.
m
I0%c 
oQ¢ 



owa
FiZSIwATu 7ESlIRS PlOJECT
ViWo  FlPma  to Cold Stcm  PIN* with Im   fmS.2Jcfiq, I9dui
(Y 1000)
frE                          UR       YF       Ym       Y4       YF      IN R7             VA YR    YRO              Du      m        law      TM         15
Oticn C4rpY1575/t                     -        -      439.9   596.5   598.5   596.5   596.5   596.5   596.5   596.5   596.5             .5       .5   3.5   u9u.5
SUlvw  C6rp 6Y1050/t                  -        -      527.9   718.2   718.2   718.2   718.2   713.2   718.2   718.2   718.2   728.2   718.2   728.2   712.2
Big Humd Y1050/t                      -        -      527.9   718.2   719.2   713.2   718.2   728.2   716.2   718.2   713.2   772.2   712.2   728.2   712.2
0mm Ctp ar 1470/t                     -        -      575.0   782.3   782.3   782.3   782.3   782.3   782.3   723              2.2    7.2   73    72.3   73.
Ic* eV 105/t                          -        -      578.8   787.5   787.5   787.5   787.5   767.5   737.5   737.1   787.5   737.5   767.5   767.5   767.5
Ssbcta1 (1)                        -        -    2649.4  3604.7  3604.7  3284.7  3604.7  3604.7  3604.7  3604.7  3604.7  3604.7  3604.7  3604.7  3604.7
co=m
INlnJISNa   coEn=
mni C m u   tion a/                19.0       -        -                 -                -                 -        -                -        -                 -
civil lid  bZ/                     1000.0   260.0      -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -    -630.0
Utiliti. a/                         100.0   110.0      -        -        -        -       -        -                          -       -        --             -i.O
fItmp4 t d                         530.0   400.0       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        _                _        _              -232.5    0%
Iuta11atimn                         90.0    90.0       -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        _
Tanh.t  datbun                      70.0    10.0       -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       _        _        _        _
HIwsUazm u100.0   130.0                                -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -
&ttoW 1(2)                       2040.0  1000.0      -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -       _        _              _ 5
PAW ?bttria1.  /                     _         -   1590.4  2272.0  2272.0  2272.0  2272.0  2272.0  2272.0  2272.0  2272.0  2I7.0  227.0   2m.0   227.0
"                                    -         -      38.5    55.0    55.0    FS.0   s5.0    55.0    55.0    59.0    55.0    59.0    59.0    55.0    59.0
Ann-AAKw                             -         -       3.5      5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0      3.0     5.0      5.0      1.0      5.0      5.0
Pbwar                                -         -    140.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0
ItCWuport                            -         -       3.5      5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
IhindYtau                            -         -      86.1   123.0   123.0   123.0   123.0   123.0   1223.0   223.0   223.0   2.2.0   223.0   2.23.0   2.0
Mblrr nt-  -    21.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0
n-.                                  -         -      75.7   106.1   106.1   108.1   106.1   106.1   106.1   108.1   108.1   106.1   108.1   108.1   10..1
S*taW (3)                          -         -    1958.7  279. 1  2798.1  2796.1  2796.1  2796.1  2796.1  2756.1  2796.1  26.1  279.1  2m.1  2m7.1
TCka1 CstA (4)                     2040.0  1000.0  2958.7  2798.1  2796.1  2798.1  2798.1  2796.1  2798.1  27.1  27.1  2756.1   796.1  2798.1  2830.6
lEt va"no (5)                     -2040.0 -1000.0   690.7   860.5   806.5   806.5   806.5   806.5   806.5   606.5   806.5   106.5   806.5    06.5  1774.0
P C
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-                    -       .                -~ ~~~~~~~ fl    U7       *M      in     Uim      Wul     nu       low     Nu      nu
- - 
con R    EOJ
Loin Fpslm/*                              -        335.0   302.0   302.0   302.0   302.0   302.0   302.0   302.0   302.0   302.0   302.0   302.0   302.0
Irteszt at tbrkdnq Capital f/             -         40.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    16.0    56.0    56.0    56.0    56.0
aMbkal (6)                                      375.0   358.0   358.0   358.0   358.0   358.0   356.0   358.0  325.0   356.0   356.0   356.0   356.0
Not IF1v l after debt omrvic  (5-6) (7)              315.7   448.5   448.5   448.5   448.5   448.5   448.5   44.5   448.5   448.5   441.5   448.5  1416.0
IR- 20%
t- 25t
a/ laymtmbt to *nmiaipal  meuxtt fbr ths ue of lnl at Y 5,000M.
b/ ImIAmis,d tcwt  qea bd1idig (Y 350/.2)  inalatimt costs (Y 450/m3)  and fri preprmtIin area (Y 300/X2) .
q/ incluaes 1:w sply (Y 150,000) mfd wtr   supply (Y 60,000) unitn.
dl lnctlzo tg  cimn (Y 230,000)I freeer (Y 150,000)  cew r   (Y 10 , 000) 5 4 cvqxrator (Y 20,000 ech) I ar cdi   Cw  Y 70,000).
*/ Paw cterial.. inolude curp (V 1,300/'tont) I   ver map (Y 750/tn) r big heod carp (Y 750/ton) i anil gmr cup (Y 1,200/toan) .
t/  ttrnt t alculated at St p.a. Internst tar the first tltm  ycu Iald be paid by the ad of Yr 3. At leat 30% of
the owpital cot is aom d to hwv bwn mt fte  the siity Lbtt bAtcd by the mlicijpl ovenm.  lt loan
wt* of Y 2.28 llian tfad be repa  Ln 12 "ml Iitallts fra Yr 4 tiwug    Yr 15.
co
w
-Jw



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Table 8
CHINA
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
Principal Input and Output Prices and Conversion Factors
Unit    Financial Price   Conversion Factor  Economic Prices
___________            (Yuan)                                (Yuan)
Unskilled labor   man-day        2.5 - 3.0             0.5              1.2 - 1.5
Skilled labor      man-day       4.5 - 1.0             1.0              4.5 - 1.0
Soybean cake          mt           460                 1.4              644
Fingerlings         (10000)      70-140                 1               70-140
Manure                 mt              8                0.5               4
Fish feed              mt        374 - 573             0.8              299 - 458
Electricity            kwh           0.2               0.94                0.18
Urea                   mt           600                1.40                840
Grass Carp             kg          2.4 - 3.4           1.0              2.4 - 3.9
Common Carp            kg          2.4 - 3.9           1.0              2.4 - 3.9
Silver Carp            kg          2.2 - 2.64          1.0              1.6 - 1.8
Gold fish              kg          2.0 - 5.0           1.0              2.0 - 5.0
Tilapia                kg          2.2 - 2.64          1.0
Wu-chang fish          kg            3 - 3.20          1.0               3 - 3.20
A conversion factor of 1.3 has been used for major inputs in construction
activity, machinery and equipment.



-65                               A      3
Table 9
CHINA
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
Key Data on Per Capita Incomes, Fish Consumption & Prices /a
Item                                   1978     1984      1 Increase(1984/1978)
r        Y           Y         Y
I.Annual Per Capita Income                                 Nominal   Real
(i) Peasant Households              134       355          165      120
(ii)staff and Workers
(a)Average wage                  614       974          59        32
(b)Income available for
living expenses b/        316       608          92        60
2.Annual Per Capita Consumption
(All households)                   175       327          87        58
3.Per Capita Consumption of
major food items                  Kg.       Kg.   I Increase(1984/1978)
Grain                       195.0    251.0            29
Pork                          8.0      13.0           62
Beef                          0.7       1.5         114
Fish(All households)          3.5       4.4           26
Fish(Peasant households)      0.8       1.7         112
Poultry                       0.4       1.3         225
Eggs                          2.0       3.9          95
4. Prices
General Price Index(1978-100)      100    117.7          17.7
Average Retail Price Index of      100    116.6          16.6
consumer goods(1978-100)
Average retail prices of
principal food items(in current terms)
Y/Kg.    Y/Kg.  I Increase
Grain                        2.95      3.58          21
Pork                         1.62      2.28           40
Beef                         1.19      2.50         110
Fish and fish products       0.95      1.86          96
Poultry(per piece)           2.00      3.10          55
Eggs                         1.67      2.36          41
5.Annual Purchase of Fish and
shrimps by staff and workers
in cities,by monthly income per capita   Kg./per capita
- Average(all bouseholds) c/      6.0       7.8
- Y 25 and below                            2.0
- Y 25.01-Y35                               4.1
- Y 35.01-Y50                               6.8
- Y 50.01-Y60                               8.6
- Y 60.01-Y70                              10.3
- Y 70.01 and over                         14.3
a/ Source: Statistical Year Book of China,1985. The data are derived
mainly from household income and expenditure surveys.
b/ Refers to household income net of expenditure on relatives,
available for dai'.v expenditure.
c/ The figure for 1978 is based on mission estimates.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
CHINA
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
ProRosed Guidelines for FDC Operations
1. Except as the Association would otherwise agree, FDCs would operate as
independent economic entities and legal persons, with charters prepared
and registered in accordance with State Council regulations dated August
14, 1985.
2. FDCs' principal objective would be to support aquaculture resource
development in areas under the jurisdiction of the concerned cities. For
carrying out this objective, FDCs would use its affiliated units with
appropriate types of organizations including subsidiaries, joint ventures,
cooperatives, leasing, and custom service enterprises.
3. FDCs would conduct their affairs with due regard to principles of sound
financial management. In particular, FDCs would adhere to following
financial standards:
(i) Capital. FDCs would have minimum starting capital as shown in
Attachment A (to be provided by May 1, 1986). FDCs would itcrease their
capital consistent with financial requirements of activities undertaken so
that ratio of total equity (total capital including uncommitted reserves)
to total debt shall be not less than 1:5.
(ii) Investments.   FDCs would invest resotrces in any commercial
activity after due assessment of its technical and financial feasibility
including a rate of return analysis. Generally, FDCs would undertake or
finance a commercial activity provided it has a financial rate of return
of not less than the oFportunity cost of capital which is currently 12%.
(iii) Accounts.   FDCs would prepare as of December 31 of each year, a
balance sheet and profit and loss statement for their total operations as
well as individual operations of their affiliated units (para. 2). FDC
accounts would be audited by concerned municipal bureaus of finance and
state audit agency. Distribution of profits after tax would be made after
sufficient provision is made for depreciation of assets, shortfall in
collection of dues from enterprises and repayment of borrowings on due
dates.
(iv) Cost Recovery.   FDCs would recover investments in feed mills, cold
storages and other support facilities generally within 15 years, and in
vehicles within 7 years, by appropriate pricing of output and services.
4. FDCs would appoint technical and support staff as may be necessary for
efficient conduct of their activities including cost recovery of
investments in enterprises and support facilities.



- 67 -                                            ANNEX 5
ama
FRESHWATER. FISHERIES PROJECT
IMEtat±m schdule
cazsSar Tar                    1986            1987             1998             1989            .1990
Omits                    : .   2 3 :4  I:1   2 3 :4 :I1   2 :3 24 ::1 :2 :3 :4 :21 :22 3 24 2
Desigri:   20C:00:                  : :20U20      :   :200C:200:     : :    :X00:2C:  :
acwatimi2:n                             Xn2Oat   ::X::200:   2        X::20C::    : X::200C:
ret, Utilitimas &  1t:.  2 :: ::20C:::CC:                                ::200C    :     ::X00C:2 2
SwtJ il±tia                           : ::           :
PZwmzubidOainw :   :  :20C            :: ::            2           2 2
Dmit±tmntoa bid       : 22:X:: 2.
Didueva3t.utLai       22              ::X  2           2 
Delivery & amibly   2                 2 :XX0:200C:XXC::  2*
Begn =t jn                                             ::        .
DM40n    ~ ~    2           2 :   22:200C::20: 2 : 2                        
qginm qpintim                        :.                     X  :2 2 
Tmdxdial Serw. Ctzu: :s
Sninh qpmat±im                  .:X  :::                                .
~~~~~2 : :~~~~~~~:M
amipscim  qmpn
irwitat..mEOtoObld  :X
Caugt zutiat          : d     :.X:    2:
Pwbiptiabid d      t :nt      :X               :X)2   2                          M
lDitatiatto bid       :X::  ::                                    X:*.
Bid evaluatic             :X          22 2X22: :X:                    : X   2
ctntnft mm:1:  X::   :                   : X:                  X:              X:
Diaivery                                X :X:1 X2                                           X:



-68-                              ANNEX 6
CHINA
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Re2orts and Studies on the Aauaculture Sector
A.1  FAO, Apuaculture Development in China. FAO Study Tour Report
(Rome, 1979).
A.2 FAO, Freshwater Fisheries and Aguaculture in China. FAO
Fisheries Technical Paper, (Rome, 1977).
A.3 IBRD, China: Long Term Issues and ODtions. Report No. 5206-CHA
May 22, 1985.
A.4 MAAF, China: Agricultural Yearbooks, 1984, 1985.
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Proiect
B.1 Chen Lo-chai. Development of Freshwater Aguaculture in Eight
MuniciRalities in China. November 8, 1985.
B.2 Cowley, James E. Aguaculture Preaggraisal Report - Engineering
AsRects. July 30, 1985.
a. Main Report
b. Annexes 1 - 8 (including maps, drawings, water resource data,
and engineering data, arranged by city)
B.3  Cronberg, C. Aauaculture Project - Feed Mills and Cold Storasre.
December 1, 1985.
B.4 FPO, Preparatory Report for the Freshwater Aquaculture Proiect
in Eight Cities. March, 1985.
B.5 FPO/Eight Cities. Feasibility Reports on Eight Proiect Cities.
March, 1985.
B.6 FPO/Eight Cities. Sunplementary Project Data. October, 1985,
including:
Projected fish demand, 1985-2005
Fish prices by city
Vehicle distribution
Training proposals
Technical Service Center training plan
Present and planned project staff by
technical specialty
D. Selected Working Papers
D.1  Detailed cost estimates (8 cities)
D.2   Financial returns to fish ponds, new and improved (8 cities)
D.3  Economic analysis (8 cities)



CHDIA
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
Orpnizational Structure or the Kinistry of AgricultLre, Animal Husbandry *nd Fisheries
Minister
Deputy
Hiniater
I                                                                                                I                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I-Agrotechnical Extension    I-Academy of Agricultaral             I                                           I                                                           I
I General Station             I       Sciences                     I   I Agricultural Mechadnizationl          I   I Animal Husbandry and         I
I                             I                                   I-I         Bueau                  I         I-I Veterirary   edicine Buresul              I  Office of Policy Stu       |   I
I-Plant Protection            I-Aricultural Engineering                II                                      I   I                              I          I                             I   I
I General Sta ion             I Reaearch and Design                                                            I
I                             I       Institute                          Land Kanagement Bueau
1-Hational Seed               I                                        I                             I 1
Corporation                  I-AgricultLral Exhibition           I-1 Aqiuatic Products Burmu
I Iall                                                                          I   I
I-Animal and Plant            I                                    I   I Fisheries Adcinistration   I          I                  I
I Quarantire Institute         I-Agricultural Film Studio          I   I      and Ports BLreau       I         I                  I                          I  Education Bureau           1    1C
I                             I                                    I   I                             I         I          Aquatic Products                   I                             I   I
I-Animal Husbandry and        I-Fcreln Technical                  I                                                      Research Center                                                       I
I Veterinary Medicine         I Engineering Ccrpam                 I
I General Station             I                                        I Cnonmue and Bripde          I I                                                     I  Scleno  and Teh-log y
I                             I-Agriculttral Scahool               I-I Enterprise BLreau             I                                                       I      Bureau                   -
I-Collective Management       I of Broadeasting                    I   II                                      I..       State Fars BLreau/   I              I
I      Ofrice                 I                                                                                    I             AITC             I                                             I
I                             I-Cadre School of Riral             I                                                I
I-Corporation of Animal       I Econanic Management                     Veteran Cadre Btreau         II                                                      I    Planning Bureau
I Husbandry, Industries       I                                                     I                                            I                           I                             I   I _
I and Camnerce                I-Agricultural Publishing            I                                                   South China Tropical
I      House                                                                             Crops Research Center                                                   I
I-State Farm Tiport and       I                                    .1.  Agronomy Bureau              I                                                      I      Fimaone Bureeu
I      Export Service         I-Gases Research Institute           I   I                                                                                                                   i
I-Auatic Products Supply   I-Environmental Protection              I    _
I and Sales Corporation       I       Center                      1L.   Administration Bureau        I                                                       I    Haterials Bureu
I-Marine Fisheries            I-Animal Quarantine
I      Campary                I Research Institute                I   _
I                                   I _  Personnel Bureau              I                                                          InfrUation Eureau u            |
I-Aiuaculture Camparor        I-Agrieultural Medhanization         I                                                                                        I                              I
Research Institute
I-ouwue and Brigade                                                    _
Enterprises Newspaper                                            1-1 Foreign Affairs Bureau    I
I



-70-                                                CHART 2
CHINA
FRESHWATER FISHERIES
ORGANIZATION FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
mINI5tlTH OF
ACGRICULTURE.
ANIMAL HUSBANtDRY
AND FISHERIES
BUREAU oJ, fISHERIES
AQUATIC I PROJECT
PRODUCTS', OFFicE
TECHNICAL
(  ADVISORtY
CROUP
PROVINCIAL
BUREAUS OF
AQUATIC PRODUCTS
MUNICIPAL                                                            PROJECT    *
GOVERNMENTS                                  _ _                    COORDINATINC
COMMITTEES
MUNICIPAL                                                                MUMUIIIPPA
BUREAUS    OC_                                                     I    FISHERIES
ACUATIC PROJECT                                                       DEVELOPMENT
PRODUCTSI Ofric   1CO RPORONS
COUNTY,                                                             PROJECT
DISTRICT                                                          COORDINATING
COYERt tlEHTS                      w               ~~~~~~~~~COMMITTEES
GOVERNMIENTS                                      C- r1ET
COUNTY *COUNTY
(DISTRI"CT  COUNTY                                                       FISHERIES
_~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~QAI  PRO                JET OFCEST                                                 DEVfELOPMENT
SECTIOtlS                                                            V] CORPORATONS
TOWN SHIP 
COVERNMENTS
4    TOWNSHIP   u
FISH FARMS
STATE FISH FAltMS
FISH
FARHERS
U.n,horuhlp. eppuated ty municipal powers moat. Ineludem
proviial government offliclels.
b to Chena4u. tiherlie. £cNFvtti.. ore toSdiod by thle
Wotor Resourche Bureau.
State fih form. are dire li under the admlnltrative
r, -trI ot the munlclpal  d cnty (district) geverfe ate.
WORLD BANK-30391



- 71 -                              CHART 3
EM~
FRESHWATER FISHERIES PROJECT
Qanals icr Use an RP!ezy
of i1L credit
~~~~~- -I
Credit                         r o  u   td  fmsf
inan.      4_5_
BFS
itn  w1  'iaea   4.5%.
l    ~ABCrate
AB3C raes
/a   WPs and COs would not directly barxe fns  but wol recmln
diE-semht of fuxs  to FDCs and fish :frm arxi mmt-, r
JO ABC rabes    ptfor trad cener and telacbigrla
itee vichi  are at 4.5%.



U.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U.  S.   S.   R.                                   _                           (_
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* .          r' 
5.                                    I
fTAN'
rIt~~~~~ 
T (-FMot    {-J                                                                                             MO.G O L
w a T. ,1W \Sam
M-      ,,J do .0,*I,R
5~~~*k~~                                                                                                 k              ,.
psrr Or rho  --"Jhl                                                                                       .1~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~
AFGi1ANISTAN
Of& _-.W W                                                                                            \                               .       :
.,daw,w  s 4CW. ;
nw~ ~ ~ ~~~r- eB s             Slu for Aqautr  eeomn
5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-
_e Fr
el * ~~~~~~~~nolar*. onl cpks
~~~~~~~~~0 Provne GS rp lW@15
'5   _   -                                                                                              '.        
_-.,  '.                            IS                                                               VE '
~~~~~~ Hun DIk                       N                                                  ,       ,C 
|IO- Tes  I Jl NG|      &     S WT *or Acuclu  O-o me                        e, REU                         IC   
1w~ me                           orolku~ ale.                                                                  -       | 
am0o, s00. 0ThTH
MILES w0 me 'v.20m0 0                                                          AlLND
L  C~SnI a. 15 'ae                                                                                                         .r_ k&ts



IBRD  19410
I'   I - I       .\U  5  5  R
/ (1W    r-_W                           -                   1W                              110
-4*~         --                     DE      RATIC
\   {   g          /       y             ~~~REPUSL C                  JAPAN                 I 
OF KOR EA                                  o ,
To.       >                                                 RE   QPUBtlIC
- t < ~~~~~~~~~~KOREAj
Ii en  -   s:L\
}   {/                                                                                               ( 
, 1--                                                  12 <
-   -                                                                                                          -A 19
z   t   . X L C  C.6jK~RPUBIC 
_ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                           ji
C   - I                        la 
,A,'    >,.                                                      PHILIPPltCAD. POR
'-e                                                ' Iu
APR IL 1986



