OFFICIAL c       IT NUMBER 1689 CHA
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Freshwater Fisheries Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1689 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      !eFx(Ae r           , 1986, between
the PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "County FDCs" means county-owned or district-owned
fisheries development corporations located within the Project
Counties;
(b) "FDCs" means the Municipal FDCs and the County FDCs;
(c) "Fish Farm" means a collectively-owned or state-owned
enterprise operating any of the ponds referred to in Part A of
the Project;
(d) "FPO" means the Fishery Project Office established
within the Bureau of Aquatic Products of the MAAF;


﻿-2-
(e) "MAAF" means the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Husbandry and Fisheries of the Borrower;
(f) "Municipal FDCs" means SAGF and the seven fisheries
development corporations listed in the Annex to Schedule 2 of
this Agreement, each of which includes any enterprise, company or
other entity controlled by SAGF or each such corporation, as the
case may be;
(g) "Onlending and Project Implementation Agreements" means
the agreements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(h)  "Project Cities" means the municipalities and cities
listed in the Annex to Schedule 2 of this Agreement;
(i)  "Project Counties" means counties and districts which
are located within the Project Cities and where any of the ponds
referred to in Part A of the Project or the support facilities
referred to in Part B of the Project are located;
(j)  "Project Offices" means the municipal Project Offices
or the county or district Project Offices established within the
Project Cities or the Project Counties, respectively;
(k) "SAGF" means the Shanghai Aquaculture General Farm, an
entity in Shanghai or its successor;
(1)  "Shanghai" means the Municipality of Shanghai of the
Borrower;
(m)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and canditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount-in various currencies
equivalent   to   fifty-two   million   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 52,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of


﻿-3-
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in a bank accept-
able to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or.in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15


﻿-4-
and  September 15 commencing    Septembzr  15, 1996, and ending
March 15, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 2006 shall be one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objective of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MAAF and the Project Cities with due diligence and efficiency and
in   conformity  with   appropriate   administrative,   financial,
engineering and fishery prictices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b) For the purposes of the Project, the Borrower shall
enter into onlending and project implementation agreements with
each of the Project Cities, respectively, upon terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Association, which shall include, inter
alia, those arrangements specified in 4Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its righ s under the
Onlending and Project Implementation Agreements in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any of the Onlending and Project Imple-
mentation Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Project Cities in
carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the FPO
with competent staff in adequate numbers and with functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.04. Without any limitation or restriction to any
of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall
make necessary arrangements acceptable to the Association for the
Provinces of Heilongjiang, Jiangxi and Sichuan to provide the
required funds to the cities of Harbin, Nanchang and Chengdu,
respectively, for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall carry out the training and
study tours under Part E of the Project in accordance with a
program acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, including the Project Cities.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles    consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof


﻿-6-
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with  paragrr.h   (a) of   this  Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until     at  least   one  year  after   the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders,   invoices,  bills,   receipts  and   other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any of the parties to the Onlending and Project Implementa-
tion Agreements shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Onlending and Project Implementation Agreements.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the Borrower's State Council has approved the
Development Credit Agreement;
(b) that the seven Onlending and Project Implementation
Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and each
of the Project Cities listed in items (1) through (7) of the
Annex to Schedule 2 of this Agreement, respectively; and
(c) that a corporate charter, as approved by the competent
city Administration of Industry and Commerce, of each of the
corporations listed in items (1) through (7) of the Annex to
Schedule 2 of thic Agreement has been delivered to the Associa-
tion.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Onlending and
Project Implementation Agreements referred to in paragraph (b) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement have been duly authorized or rati-
fied by the Borrower and each of the seven Project Cities and are
legally binding upon the Borrower and each of the seven Project
Cities in accordance with their terms, respectively.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINANMIN                            22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By 15\               - n
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 16)               A+tA4
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Earthworks under        17,920,000          30%
Part A of the
Project
(2) Equipment,
materials and
vehicles
(a)  Construction       6,240,000   )      100% of foreign
materials                      )      expenditures,
under Parts A                  )      100% of local
and B of the                   )      expenditures
Project                        )      (ex-factory
)      cost) and 75%
)      of local ex-
)      penditures for
)      other items pro-
)      cured locally
(b) Equipment           2,870,000   )
under Part B                   )
(a) of the                     )
Project                        )
(c)  Construction      19,390,000   )
equipment                      )
and vehicles                   )
under Part C                   )
of the                         )
Project                        )


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(d) Production            2,350,000)
equipment and                 )
materials under               )
Parts D (a)                   )
and D (b) (i)                 )
of the Project                )
(3) Training and                 620,000        100% of foreign
consultants'                               expenditures
services
(4) Unallocated                2,610,000
TOTAL                52,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall ,e made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and
(b) in respect of expenditures relating to such part of the
Project as shall be carried out through Shanghai, unless and
until the Association has received:


﻿- 12 -
(i) evidence satisfactory to the Association that the
Onlending and Project Implementation Agreement
between the Borrower and Shanghai has been exe-
cuted on behalf of the Borrower and Shanghai;
(ii) documentary evidence satisfactory to the Associa-
tion that SAGF has power and authority to engage
in all the activities necessary to carry out its
part of Part B of the Project; and
(iii) a legal opinion satisfactory to the Association,
of counsel acceptable to the Association that the
Onlending and Project Implementation Agreement
between the Borrower and Shanghai has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
Shanghai and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and Shanghai in accordance with its terms, and
that SAGF has power and authority to engage in all
the activities necessary to carry out its part of
Part B of the Project.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to develop freshwater fish
culture in the Project Cities by improving existing ponds and
constructing new ponds, providing techniques and equipment for
pond management and strengthening the support facilities for
production and marketing of fish.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:   Pond Development
In the Project Cities, establishment of about 11,100 ha of
new ponds and improvement of about 6,100 ha of existing ponds,
including provision of water supply, drainage, power supply, farm
roads, buildings, pond lining, flood protection and slope
protection.
Part B:   Support Facilities
Construction and equipping of support facilities for the
FDCs, including: (a) about 14 feed mills, about 4 cold storage
plants and about 6 technical service centers; and (b) about 7
trade centers and about 10 other support facilities such as
tilapia   overwintering   facilities,   vaccine    factories   and
hatcheries.
Part C:   Construction Equipment and Vehicles
Provision of construction equipment to the FDCs and about
2,085 vehicles to the FDCs, the Fish Farms and the Project
Offices for the purposes of Parts A and B above.
Part D:   Production Equipment and Materials
Provision to the Fish Farms of: (a) production equipment;
and (b) production materials including: (i) fertilizers, fish
meal and vitamins; and (ii) fingerlings.


﻿- 14 -
Part E:   Training and Technical Assistance
Provision of local and overseas training and study tours for
staff from MAAF, Project Cities and Project Counties and consul-
tants' services to assist in conducting local training programs
and fishery research.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1990.


﻿- 15 -
Annex to Schedule 2
Fisheries
Project Cities                     Development Corporations
1.   Chengdu in Sichuan Province        Chengdu Aquatic Products
Cultivation Corporation
2.   Chongqing in Sichuan Province      Chongqing Aquatic
Products Cultivation
Corporation
3.   Hangzhou in Zhejiang Province      Hangzhou Aquatic Products
Cultivation Corporation
4.   Harbin in Heilongjiang Province    Harbin Fisheries
Development Corporation
5.   Nanchang in Jiangxi Province       Nanchang Aquatic Products
Development Corporation
6.   Shenyang in Liaoning Province      Shenyang Aquatic Products
General Corporation
7.   Municipality of Beijing            Beijing Freshwater
Fishery Corporation
8.   Municipality of Shanghai


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding shall
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$5,000,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China
may be granted a margin pf preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs I through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Earthworks under Part A of the Project may be procured by
force account or other procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Laboratory and   audio-visual equipment for the technical
service centers, the vaccine factory and the hatchery under
Part B of the Project and production materials and production
equipment under Part D of the Project, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 17 -
(a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower and the Project Cities in
carrying out Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
cotultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants sjhall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures sncisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Bor-
rowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Onlending and Project
Implementation Agreements
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each On-
lending and Project Implementation Agreement shall include, inter
alia, the following arrangements:
1.   The Project Cities shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out, their respective parts of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and fishery practices.
2.   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to each
of the Project Cities for the purposes of its respective part of
the Project under the following terms and conditions:
Repayment period:            20 years including
5 years of grace
Interest rate:               fixed at 4.5% per annum
Foreign exchange risk:        to be borne by the Project
Cities
3.   The Project Cities shall make, or cause to be made, avail-
able the funds to be obtained from the Borrower under paragraph 2
of this Schedule to FDCs, Project Counties and the Fish Farms for
the purposes of the Project by extending sub-loans (hereinafter
in this paragraph 3 referred to as the Sub-loans) to such FDCs,
Project Cities and Fish Farms upon the following terms and
conditions:
Interest rates:       (i) with respect to any Sub-loans for
the purposes of the trade centers
and technical service centers for
the FDCs under Part B of the
Project, fixed at 4.5% per annum
(ii) with respect to any Sub-loans for
the purposes other than those
referred to in (i) above, rates
acceptable to the Association


﻿- 19 -
Repayment periods:    to be determined by criteria accept-
able to the Association
4.   Without limitation to paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Project Cities shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, all the necessary funds, facilities and resources
required for the carrying out of their respective parts of the
Project and in accordance with the schedules and procedures
agreed between the Project Cities and the Borrower.
5.   The Project Cities shall ensure that each FDC be operated in
accordance with FDC operation guidelines acceptable to the
Association.
6.   Each of the Project Cities shall promptly inform MAAF of any
amendments to the corporate charter of the Municipal FDC located
within such Project City.
7.   In order to facilitate the implementation of the Project,
each of the Project Cities shall: (i) maintain its Project Office
within its fisheries agency, with competent staff in adequate
numbers; and (ii) cause each of the Project Counties located
within such Project City to maintain its Project Office within
its fisheries agency with competent staff in adequate numbers.
8.   Each of the Project Cities shall properly install, operate
and maintain, or cause to be installed, operated and maintained,
any equipment procured under the Project.
9.   MAAF shall be responsible for overall supervision of the
implementation of the Project and shall assist the Project Cities
in performing their obligations under the Project Implementation
Agreement.
10. Each of the Project Cities shall furnish semi-annually to
MAAF progress reports on its respective part of the Project,
within two months of the end of each semester, in a format
acceptable to MAAF.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorioed Allocation" means an amount equiv-
alent to SDR 3,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 21 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible   Categories  shall   follow  such   procedures  as   the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any


﻿- 22 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


