                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2958



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-51770)



                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.8 MILLION
                      (US$ 30.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO

                        THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

                                    FOR A

          COMPETITIVENESS DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION



                              December 19, 2013




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective as of November 30th, 2013)

                               Currency Unit = Moldovan Lei
                                  1.00 MDL = US$ 0.076
                                   US$ 1.00 = 13.122 MDL

                                      FISCAL YEAR

                                  January 1 – December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

        Agenţia Naţională pentru Siguranţa
                                                             Implementation Completion and Results
ANSA    Alimentelor (National Agency for Food     ICR
                                                             Report
        Safety)
CEM     Country Economic Memorandum               IMF        International Monetary Fund
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy              M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
        Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade                    Ministry of Agriculture and Food
DCFTA                                             MAFI
        Area                                                 Industry
DPO     Development Policy Operation              MOF        Ministry of Finance
ECA     Europe and Central Asia                   NAS        National Accounting Standards
EU      European Union                            NBM        National Bank of Moldova
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment                 NGO        Non-governmental Organization
FY      Fiscal Year                               PDO        Program Development Objectives
FSA     Food Safety Agency                        PER        Public Expenditure Review
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                    SPS        Sanitary and Phyto-sanitary
GoM     Government of Moldova                     MDL        Moldovan Leu
        International Financial Reporting
IFRS                                              US$        United States Dollar
        Standards
IFC     International Finance Corporation         VAT        Value Added Tax




                               Vice President:   Laura Tuck
                             Country Director:   Qimiao Fan
                            Country Manager:     Abdoulaye Seck
                              Sector Manager:    Carolina Sanchez Paramo
                           Task Team Leaders:    Ruslan Piontkivsky, Karlis Smits
                            ICR Team Leader:     Sebastian Eckardt
                                                      MOLDOVA

          COMPETITIVENESS DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION


                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
A. Basic Information....................................................................................................... ii
B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... ii
C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... ii
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................... iii
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. iii
F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... iv
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs ................................................................. vi
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ vi

Main Document
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 22
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 24
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 25

Annexes
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 27
Annex 2. Borrower's ICR.............................................................................................. 29
Annex 3. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 38




                                                               i
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Competitiveness
Country:                Moldova                  Program Name:            Development Policy
                                                                          Operation
Program ID:             P122226                  L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-51770
ICR Date:               12/05/2013               ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                      Borrower:
                                                                          MOLDOVA
Original Total
                        XDR 19.80M               Disbursed Amount:        XDR 19.80M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 19.80M
Implementing Agencies:
State Chancellery of Republic of Moldova
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/23/2011     Effectiveness:              12/03/2012       12/03/2012
Appraisal:            09/10/2012     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             11/01/2012     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                    06/30/2013       06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                            Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                            Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                ii
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                    Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                               None
                                                    (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                             Quality of
                        No                                                  None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       10                  10
General finance sector                                                 30                  30
General industry and trade sector                                      30                  30
General public administration sector                                   10                  10
Other domestic and international trade                                 20                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                 10                  10
Other Financial Sector Development                                     25                  25
Regional integration                                                   15                  15
Regulation and competition policy                                      30                  30
Rural policies and institutions                                        20                  20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Laura Tuck                            Philippe Le Houérou
Country Director:          Qimiao Fan                            Qimiao Fan
Sector Manager:            Carolina Sanchez Paramo               Benu Bidani
Program Team Leader:       Ruslan Piontkivsky                    Ruslan Piontkivsky
ICR Team Leader:           Sebastian Eckardt
                           Sebastian Eckardt, Ilyas Sarsenov,
ICR Primary Author:
                           Marcel Chistruga




                                                   iii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The objective of the operation is to enhance Moldova's competitiveness by increasing exports,
deepening financial markets, enhancing the development impact of remittances and broadening
the drivers of economic growth.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)

 (a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                            Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval           Target         Completion or
                                             documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Reduce time and average cost of obtaining permits.
Value
                                           12 days and                        15 days and
(quantitative or   17 days and US$283                          N/A
                                           US$200                             US$215
Qualitative)
Date achieved      10/02/2012              12/31/2012                         10/31/2013
Comments
                   Partially achieved. Time and cost have been reduced, but the optimistic target
(incl. %
                   values are still to be met.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Reduce time and average cost for certificate compliance.
Value
                                           10 days and                        12 days and
(quantitative or   14 days and US$192                          N/A
                                           US$100                             US$158
Qualitative)
Date achieved      10/02/2012              12/31/2013                         10/31/2013
Comments
                   Partially achieved. Time and cost have been reduced, but the optimistic target
(incl. %
                   values are still to be met.
achievement)
                   Reduce the proportion of Moldovan exporters to the EU who are required to
Indicator 3 :
                   comply with the Moldovan product standards in addition to the EU standards.
Value
(quantitative or   100%                    Zero                N/A            Zero
Qualitative)
Date achieved      10/02/2012              12/31/2013                         10/31/2013
Comments
                   Achieved. Moldovan exporters are not required to comply with the Moldovan
(incl. %
                   product standards in addition to the EU standards.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Reduce the number of inspection bodies.
Value
                                           33 inspection                      33 inspection
(quantitative or   64 inspection bodies                        N/A
                                           bodies                             bodies
Qualitative)
Date achieved      10/02/2012            12/31/2013                        10/31/2013
Comments           Achieved. The number of inspection bodies was cut by merging some
(incl. %           functions together.


                                                  iv
achievement)
                   The Competition Council to exercise its new powers of investigating alleged
Indicator 5 :
                   violations (without applying to a court decision).
Value                                                                       The Council started
                                            Applied in
(quantitative or   Zero                                         N/A         exercising its new
                                            100% cases
Qualitative)                                                                powers in 2013
Date achieved      10/02/2012               12/31/2013                      10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Pilot new varieties for underrepresented crops.
Value                                       Piloting of new                  Piloted 36 crops
(quantitative or   Zero piloting            varieties covers 10 N/A          with less than 10
Qualitative)                                crops                            varieties
Date achieved      10/02/2012               12/31/2013                       10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      Consolidate the number of agencies engaged in food safety.
Value                                                                       A single National
(quantitative or   Four agencies          Single agency     N/A             Food Safety
Qualitative)                                                                Agency created
Date achieved      10/02/2012             12/31/2013                        10/31/2013
Comments
                   Achieved. All food safety functions were transferred to the newly created
(incl. %
                   National Food Safety Agency.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Provide licenses to non-bank payment service providers.
Value
(quantitative or   Zero                    At least 3         N/A            None has applied
Qualitative)
Date achieved      10/02/2012              12/31/2013                        10/31/2013
Comments
                   In progress. There are potentially 6 local non-bank payment service providers
(incl. %
                   which are expected to apply for licenses.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :      Require all commercial banks to apply IFRS.
Value
                                                                             All banks applied
(quantitative or   Zero applied            100% apply         N/A
                                                                             IFRS
Qualitative)
Date achieved      10/02/2012              12/31/2012                        10/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Not Applicable




                                                v
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
Not Applicable

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                            vi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

    1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      At appraisal, Moldova’s economy was recovering from the global financial crisis of
2008-2009, but growth rates had decelerated in early 2012 due to a drought and the impact
of the crisis in the Euro area. Recovery in remittances and investment growth fuelled domestic
demand in 2010-2011, and exports were also strong. Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew
by 7.1 percent in 2010 and 6.4 percent in 2011, due to deterioration of external environment and
severe drought, and then decelerated to 0.8 percent in 2012. Consumption slowed from 6.4
percent in 2011 to 0.9 percent in 2012. Gross fixed capital formation registered a marginal
increase of 0.4 percent after 10.7 percent growth in 2011. Industrial production, increased by 0.5
percent, reflecting a fall in demand for products that are mainly exported to the European Union
(EU), as well as the deceleration of domestic demand. Agricultural production suffered a loss of
23.3 percent on annual basis due to drought during 2012.

2.       The current account deficit had narrowed to 7 percent of GDP in 2012, and
continued to be financed by private sector borrowing and official inflows. While the trade
deficit remained large, export growth outpaced import growth in 2011-12. Remittances recovered
in 2010-12 but still have not reached pre-crisis levels. Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) net
inflows dropped to only 2.2 percent of GDP in 2012, underscoring the importance of reforms to
attract investments to achieve sustained recovery and spur modernization. The current account
deficit was therefore mostly financed by private and public debt. In August 2012, foreign
exchange reserves had reached US$ 2.3 billion, which was above pre-crisis levels and equal to
about 4.3 months of imports.

3.       Inflation had declined significantly in the first half of 2012 because of weaker
domestic demand and stable food and fuel prices. Stalled growth of remittances and domestic
demand, as well as a worsening external environment, reduced inflationary pressures in the first
half of 2012. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) decelerated from 8 percent as of end-2011 to 4.6
percent by the end of 2012. However, the drought of 2012 reduced the domestic supply of food
and led to an increase in prices for vegetables and meat. Since 2010, the National Bank of
Moldova (NBM) is implementing inflation targeting with the main inflation target of CPI of 5
percent plus/minus 1.5 percent. In line with this policy, in the last quarter of 2011, the central
bank loosened reserve requirements and gradually decreased its policy interest rate by 550 basis
points to 4.5 percent. The monetary policy shifted to a more neutral stance by mid-2012 as the
inflation outlook was consistent with the objective.

4.       The Government was in a process of fiscal adjustment. The General Government’s
fiscal deficit decreased from 6.3 percent of GDP in 2009 to 2.4 percent in 2011. On the revenue
side, tax reforms included reintroduction of the Corporate Income Tax in 2012 and gradual
increases of excise taxes. Notwithstanding these revenue-enhancing efforts, the General
Government’s budget revenues measured as a share of GDP had declined from 38.9 percent in
2009 to 36.7 percent in 2011. Grants from development partners, mainly from the EU, amounted
to about 2 percent of GDP or 5 percent of total revenues. In the first half of 2012, revenue
collection underperformed relative to initial plans due to weakening economic growth and
deteriorating tax compliance. In particular, collections of Value Added Tax (VAT) by Customs,
excises and external grants were lower than planned. On the expenditure side, the overall level of
General Government’s current expenditures as a ratio of GDP fell from 40.3 percent at the peak
of the global financial crisis in 2009 to 34 percent in 2011. The Government exercised
expenditure control during the period of economic growth in 2010 and 2011. As a result, public


                                                1
wages as a share of GDP declined from double digits to about 9.4 percent of GDP in 2011.
Similarly, capital expenditures fell from 7.1 percent of GDP in 2008 to 5.1 percent in 2011.

5.       The Government had undertaken steps to address macroeconomic vulnerabilities
and withstand the economic crisis, with support from the International Monetary Fund
(IMF). In early 2010 the Government began implementing macroeconomic policies hinging on
four pillars: (i) fiscal policies to restore sustainability while safeguarding public investment and
social spending priorities; (ii) flexible monetary and exchange rate policies to keep inflation
under control, facilitate adjustment to shocks, and rebuild foreign reserves; (iii) policies to ensure
financial stability through early detection of bank difficulties, and strengthening the legal
framework for bank rehabilitation and resolution; and (iv) structural reforms to raise the
economy’s potential. The implementation of these policies was supported by the IMF, and five
reviews were successfully completed by late 2012.

6.      Despite a sharp decline in poverty rates after 2000s, Moldova continued to suffer
from one of the highest poverty rates in Europe. National and World Bank (WB) statistics
show a significant improvement in poverty indicators. Based on the WB Europe and Central Asia
(ECA) regional poverty line of US$ 5/day at Purchasing Power Parity (PPP), 94 percent of the
population was poor in 2002 but this had declined to 55 percent by 2011. National poverty
estimates 1 indicate that national poverty rate fell from 30.2 percent in 2006 to 17.5 percent in
2011. Most of the observed poverty reduction has been driven by growth, and the main channels
have been higher wage earnings and private transfers such as remittances.

1.2     Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.      The overarching development objective of the Development Policy Operation (DPO)
was to enhance competiveness by increasing exports, deepen financial markets, enhance the
development impact of remittances and broaden drivers of economic growth. The operation
was organized around two pillars and defined eight separate outcomes (aligned with the prior
actions) and associated outcome indicators:

Pillar 1: Improving productivity and attracting new investment for exports through
investment climate reform

Reduced administrative burden of business regulation measured by:

•     Time and average cost of authorizations reduced to 12 days and US$200 on average in
2012;

Reduced non-tariff barriers to trade measured by:

•       Time and average cost of mandatory certification reduced to 10 days and US$100 on
average in 2013;

Gradual harmonization of product standards with EU standards measured by:




1
 The national poverty line was MDL 1093/month in 2011, equivalent to US$ 3 dollar/day (current). The
national threshold for extreme poverty was MDL 591.2/month in 2011, equivalent to US$ 1.6/day (current).


                                                  2
•       Proportion of exporters to the EU who are also required to meet Moldovan product
standards reduced to zero by 2012;

Reduced overlapping inspections measured by:

•       Number of inspection bodies reduced from 64 in 2010 to 33 in 2013;

Fewer anti-competitive practices measured by:

•       Application of ‘before the court’ mitigation of alleged violations;

Increased competitiveness of Moldovan agro-food export products measured by:

•       Piloting of new varieties covers 10 crops in 2013.

Pillar 2: Improve access to private finance for investment

Reduced cost of and increased access to payment and remittance services measured by:

•       At least 3 licensed non-bank Payment Service Providers by 2013;

Strengthened financial intermediation; increased transparency in the banking sector and
alignment of financial reporting with EU standards measured by:

•       All banks in Moldova started reporting under IFRS as of 2012.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

Not applicable.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

8.      The DPO was designed to support selected key actions in the Government’s overall
reform plan. The policy program was organized around two pillars: i) improving productivity
and attracting new investment for exports through investment climate reform; and ii) improving
finance for investment. Across the two pillars of the program, the policy dialogue was in
anchored in ten specific prior actions.

Pillar 1: Improve productivity and attract new investment for exports through investment
climate reform

DPO Prior Action: Enactment of the Law on Regulation by Means of Authorization of
Entrepreneurial Activity to reduce the regulatory burden.

9.      The objective of the prior action was to streamline permits to reduce compliance
costs. A new law established a list of required permits, reduced the number of activities subject to
required permits, reduced the fees paid for the remaining activities subject to permits, introduced
the principle “silence is consent” (automatic granting of a permit on a lapse of time basis) and the
principle of declarative responsibility. The proposed permits’ reform (Guillotine 2+) followed the



                                                 3
previously undertaken regulatory Guillotines 1 and 2. This prior action was expected to reduce
both time and cost of authorizations faced by entrepreneurs.

DPO Prior Action: Reduce non-tariff barriers to trade by adoption of Government Decision that
eliminates the List of Products subject to Mandatory Conformity Certification.

10.     The repeal of Government Decision #1469 of December 30, 2004 enabled the
Government to remove an obsolete product conformity certification requirement for 12
food product categories and 26 manufactured products. This prior action was expected to
reduce time and cost of certification by importers, facilitating trade and reducing administrative
constraints to trade.

DPO Prior Action: Enact modifications to the Standardization Law harmonized with the EU
Directive 98/34/EC.

11.     The DPO supported modifications to the Standardization Law with the following
main changes: voluntary application of standards; standards regulation by the line
authority; institutional separation of metrology and standardization; creation of the
Standardization Council. The Law facilitated harmonization of Moldovan product standards
with EU standards for a significant number of manufacturing products categories. The objectives
of the action were to increase safety of products for consumers in the domestic market and to
enable Moldovan producers to meet product standards demanded by export markets. The
expected outcome of this measure was to reduce transaction costs for exporters to the EU by
removing additional Moldovan product standards.

DPO Prior Action: Enact the Law on State Control of Entrepreneurial Activity.

12.      The Law on regulation of controls/inspections over entrepreneurial activity
introduced risk assessment as a foundation for enforcement programs. The aim was to
release resources from unnecessary inspections, redirecting them towards improvement of
compliance; and streamlining overlapping forms and data requirements. There were 64 authorities
undertaking 14 different types of inspections, of which 30 regulators had overlapping activities.
This prior action was expected to reduce the number and duration of control bodies’ inspector
visits and consequently improve business climate.

Medium- term objective: Encourage competitive practices in the domestic market

DPO Prior Action: In line with EU and international good practice: (i) Enact the Law on
Competition; and (ii) Enact the Law on State Aid.

13.      New laws on State Aid and on Protection of Competition are thought to bring
Moldova in line with the EU standards. The Law on Competition and the Law on State Aid
were designed to align Moldovan practice to the EU standards on dominant market share and
cartels, constituting an important prerequisite for conclusion of the Deep and Comprehensive
Free Trade Area (DCFTA) with the EU. The objective of this prior action was to de-monopolize
the economy and to create an environment for fair market competition.

Medium- term objective: Improve farmers’ access to modern technologies

DPO Prior Action: Enact amendments to legislation modernizing procedures for plant variety
testing and registration.


                                                4
14.      The DPO supported partial liberalization of imports of seeds to enhance framers’
access to modern technology. The adopted legislative package comprised four laws: Law on
Seeds, Law on Plant Protection, Law on Viticulture; Law on Orchards, which: (i) enabled piloting
adoption of the EU Common Catalogue for a selected range of crops with obsolete and under-
represented varieties (less than 10 varieties per crop) in the national catalogue; and (ii) abolished
the National Council for Plant Varieties and attributed all related functions and responsibilities to
newly created State Commission for Testing. The rationale was to increase competitiveness in the
sector by allowing Moldovan farmers to have quick access to external agricultural technology.
Only varieties listed in the national catalogue are officially for sale in Moldova, limiting the
choice of varieties available on the domestic seed market and leading to delayed, costly and
uncertain farmers’ access to new technologies. This lack of access to new technologies
contributes to Moldovan producers’ low and unstable crop yields, and reduces opportunities in
new higher value markets. The proposed reforms were expected to lead to improved productivity
and competitiveness of Moldovan agricultural products. Giving farmers access to the newest
varieties of seeds and seedlings offered by the EU market was essential in helping them compete
with EU producers.

Medium- term objective: Advance alignment of food safety regulations with EU practice

DPO Prior Action: Approve (by Government decision) the Food Safety Strategy for 2011-2015
that commits to the unification of food safety functions and regulations in a single agency.

15.     The DPO supported the adoption of a food safety strategy, which led to the
establishment of a unified food safety agency. Public services for food safety and sanitary and
phyto-sanitary (SPS) management did not follow the principles of delineation of tasks between
health and agricultural authorities, and separation of responsibilities between standard-setting and
food safety management. The objective of this prior action was to eliminate overlapping
responsibilities and control functions, for increased access of Moldova agro-food exports to the
EU market. The Food Safety Strategy provided for the creation of a food safety and quality
management system centered on the establishment of a Food Safety Agency (FSA) which has
ample and unique prerogatives in managing food safety and quality in Moldova.

Pillar 2: Improve access to private finance for investment

DPO Prior Action: Enact the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money which enables the
provision of payment services and e-money products by the banks, non-bank financial institutions
and Posta Moldovei.

16.      The Law on Payment Service and Electronic Money was conceived to introduce a
clear legal framework governing payment services, allowing non-banking providers to
compete in the provision of payment services and electronic money instruments. The
majority of transactions in Moldova are cash based, as a consequence of which financial services
are poorly developed and designed. The aim was to facilitate the increase in competition by banks
and non-bank operators, consequently allowing for more innovative financial products available
for the retention of remittances in the financial sector. The law was a pre-requisite to reforms that
should promote faster adoption of cashless payments and should help reduce the incidence of
shadow economy in Moldova.

DPO Prior Action: Enact amendments to the Tax Code and related laws to facilitate IFRS
implementation by all licensed banks.


                                                 5
17.      The introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) across the
banking system improved transparency. IFRS has built-in mechanisms of checking the
consistency and accuracy of financial reports, in this way improving the transparency in the
system and enabling better monitoring by the prudential supervisor. The final objective was to
increase foreign investor and business confidence in the financial reports of banks (and other
Moldovan companies as this requirement is expected to cover non-bank financial institutions and
other joint stock companies).

DPO Prior Action: Enact the Law on Capital Market to facilitate capital market development in
Moldova.

18.      The Law on Capital Market harmonized the legal framework for the capital market
with the legal framework of the EU. New guidelines and rules relate to capital requirements for
market participants, requirements for stock listing and corporate bonds issuance. Moreover, the
Law includes provisions that significantly enhance the safety of the clearing and settlement of
securities transactions. Enactment of this law was expected to set a new horizon for the
development of the capital market in Moldova, requiring at the same time a process of fine-tuning
of the regulatory framework to ensure full compliance with the EU best practices.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

19.      All prior actions supported by this stand-alone operation were completed prior to
Board approval. The operation supported a set of ten, selected key reforms in the Government
program to enhance competitiveness and lay the foundation for sustainable growth. After a period
of political instability restored after the election of the President in March 2012, the authorities
moved swiftly in the implementation of the reform program. All agreed policy actions were
completed, meeting conditions for Board presentation and approval of the operation.

20.      The Government has sustained the measures initiated under the DPO and continued
to make progress in several reform areas. None of the reform measures that were implemented
as part of the DPO program have been reversed since Board approval. Across both pillars of the
program, the Government continued to make progress. Several of the laws enacted as part of the
DPO program have come into effect since Board approval. The Government also moved from
putting in place the legislative framework towards implementation, including adopting the
necessary regulatory and institutional framework for effective implementation. Table 1
summarizes the implementation status for all prior actions.

Table 1 Progress in the implementation of Prior Actions, supported by the DPO
Prior Action                        Status at Approval                  Status at Completion
Enactment of the Law on             Achieved. Law No.160 “On            Sustained. Law No. 160 remains
Regulation by Means of              Regulation by Means of              effective without further
Authorization of Entrepreneurial    Authorization of Entrepreneurial    amendments.
Activity to reduce the regulatory   Activity” was enacted on July 22,
burden.                             2011 and became effective April
                                    14,
                                    2012
Reduce non-tariff barriers to       Achieved. Government Decision       Sustained. Government Decision
trade by adoption of Government     No.823 “On Abrogation of            No. 823 remains effective without
Decision that eliminates the List   Government Decision 1469 as of      further amendments.


                                                    6
of Products subject to              December 30, 2004 “On                EU-conforming           technical
Mandatory Conformity                Approving the List of Regulated      regulations have been enacted for
Certification.                      Products Subject to Mandatory        certain products.
                                    Conformity Certification” was
                                    enacted and became effective on
                                    November 7, 2011
Enact modifications to the          Achieved. Law No.32 “On              Sustained. Law No. 32 remains
Standardization Law harmonized      Modifications to the Law on          effective    without   further
with the EU Directive 98/34/EC.     Standardization” was enacted on      amendments.
                                    March 6, 2012 and became
                                    effective on October 20,
                                    2012
Enact the Law on State Control      Achieved. Law No.131 “On State       Sustained. Law No.131 became
of Entrepreneurial Activity.        Control of Entrepreneurial           effective on March 1, 2013
                                    Activity” was enacted on June 8,
                                    2012
In line with EU and international   Achieved. Law No. 139 “On State      Sustained. Law No. 139 became
good practice: (i) Enact the Law    Aid” was enacted on June 15,         effective on August 16, 2013
on Competition; and (ii) Enact      2012
the Law on State Aid.               Law No. 183 “On Competition”
                                    was enacted on July 11, 2012 and
                                    became effective on September
                                    14,
                                    2012
Enact amendments to legislation     Achieved. Law No. 85 “On             Sustained. Law No. 85 remains
modernizing procedures for          Amendment and Completion of          effective    without   further
plant variety testing and           Some Legislative Acts (related to    amendments.
registration.                       modernizing procedures for plant
                                    variety testing and registration)”
                                    was enacted on April 13, 2012 and
                                    became effective on June 15, 2012
Approve (by Government              Achieved. Government Decision        Sustained. Law No 113 on the
decision) the Food Safety           No. 747 on “On Approving the         establishment of the principles and
Strategy for 2011-2015 that         Food Safety Strategy for 2011-       requirements of food safety
commit to the unification of food   2015” was enacted and became         legislation was enacted on May 18
safety functions and regulations    effective on October 3, 2011         2012. Government Decision No.
in a single agency.                                                      51 “On Creation of the National
                                                                         Food Safety Agency (ANSA)”
                                                                         was enacted and became effective
                                                                         on January 16, 2013.
                                                                         Law No. 113 was amended on
                                                                         November 18 2013 to subordinate
                                                                         the food safety agency directly to
                                                                         the government.
Enact the Law on Payment            Achieved. Law No. 114 “On            Sustained. Law No. 114 “On
Services and Electronic Money       Payment Services and E-Money”        Payment Services and E-Money”
which enables the provision of      was enacted on May 18, 2012          became effective on
payment services and e-money                                             September 15, 2013
products by the banks, non-bank
financial institutions and Posta
Moldovei.
Enact amendments to the Tax         Achieved. Law No.267 “On             Sustained. Law No.267 remains
Code and related laws to            Amendment of Some Legislative        effective    without   further
facilitate IFRS implementation      Acts (which also included            amendments
by all licensed banks.              amendments to the Tax Code,



                                                    7
                                              regarding IFRS implementation)”
                                              was enacted on December 23,
                                              2011 and became effective on
                                              January 13, 2012
Enact the Law on Capital                      Achieved. Law No. 171 “On                         Sustained. Law No. 171 became
Market to facilitate capital                  Capital Markets” was enacted on                   effective September 14, 2013
market development in Moldova                 July 11, 2012

2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

21.      Despite commitment by the Government, the pace of program implementation was
initially affected by a volatile political environment. During the two years leading up to Board
approval of the operation, Moldova experienced significant political uncertainty. Parliamentary
elections in November 2010 had provided a majority for the Alliance for European Integration
(AEI), but the coalition lacked the three-fifths majority needed to vote in a new head of state.
Failure to elect a President resulted in institutional paralysis and persistent political disruption
which undermined reform progress. While the WBG team maintained the policy dialogue with
the authorities throughout this period, reform implementation stalled and only few policy actions,
identified at the concept stage, were completed. As a result, there were delays in preparation of
the operation after the concept stage.2 Moreover, reflecting heightened political uncertainty, the
authorities were not ready to commit to a reform program beyond immediate priorities and
requested conversion of the DPO – which was originally conceived as a programmatic series at
the concept stage – into a single operation.

Figure 1 Political Events and DPO Preparation and Implementation Timeline

`   Parliamentary Elections            1st Presidential         Invalidation of 1st             2nd Presidential
                                           Elections          Presidential Elections               Elections

                              Jun’11                                                                Sept’12           Nov’12

     Nov’10                                          Dec’11 Jan’12                     Mar’12

                       DPO Project Concept                                       DPO Appraisal                     DPO Board Approval
                          Note Review



22.     Reform momentum and DPO implementation picked up after the political situation
stabilized in March 2012. The election of a new president, Nicolae Timofti, in March 2012
paved the way for some degree of political stability. Implementation of prior actions accelerated
with six out of the ten policy actions in the program implemented between March and September
2012. This steady progress towards the stated development objectives enabled appraisal and
Board presentation of the DPO in late 2012.

23.     Broad consultations and partnerships helped build the program and facilitated
implementation, once political uncertainty was resolved. Extensive consultations were held
both during design and implementation of the program, including with the center of government
(State Chancellery and Ministry of Finance), concerned line ministries (Agriculture, Economy),
members of parliament, and civil society (including academia, business associations, and Non-


2
 The concept review meeting for the DPO which was held in June 2011 originally envisaged Board
presentation before the end of calendar year 2011, but highlighted the high degree of political uncertainty
and associated risks for the DPO implementation timeline.


                                                                  8
government Organizations). This broad approach to consultations helped the team to identify key
reforms, but also to develop an understanding of the broader political environment and its
implications on feasibility of different reform measures.

24.      The design of the policy program, supported by the DPO, was closely aligned with
Government priorities, which ensured broad ownership and facilitated implementation of
substantive policy measures. All DPO prior actions were closely aligned to the Government’s
overarching policy objective of fostering sustainable economic growth through European
integration, investment, innovation and competiveness, as reflected in the Government Action
Plan: “European Integration: Freedom, Democracy, Welfare”. More specifically, the operation
focused on priority actions that enjoyed broad support and strong commitment among political
leadership both in the Government and Parliament, including export promotion, fostering greater
competition in the domestic market, and improvements in the financial sector to enhance its role
as a link between savings and investment – all of which are reflected in the DPO policy matrix.
This alignment and the resultant high degree of Government ownership meant that substantive
prior actions, including measures that required parliamentary enactment of legislation, were
undertaken with the support of this operation in a relatively short time span, especially once the
political deadlock was overcome.

25.      The Government’s reform agenda was closely tied to the EU association agenda,
which provided an additional external anchor for program implementation. The design of
the operation is explicitly anchored in the objective of achieving closer integration with the
European Union. More specifically, the operation supported several key reforms necessary for the
EU-Moldova DCFTA. DCFTA negotiations began in February 2012 and were finalized by the
new Government in June 2013, putting the country back on track to qualify for EU association
later this year. The prospect of achieving EU association not only provided a clear and concrete
policy agenda in key reform areas but also reinforced incentives for consistent and time bound
reform implementation. 3

26.     Analytical underpinnings and ongoing policy dialogue informed the design and
implementation of the overall program and individual measures. The Country Economic
Memorandum (CEM), completed in 2011, provided the main analytical foundation for the design
of the operation. The CEM recommended a comprehensive structural reform agenda to reorient
the growth model from one that is driven on domestic consumption, financed by remittances, to
one driven by investment, innovation and competitiveness. The DPO supported key elements of
this agenda. In addition, the reform program was built on complementarity with other World
Bank Group (WBG) instruments in Moldova, including investment projects and analytical and
advisory activities of the World Bank and International Finance Cooperation (IFC), as well as
other development partners. Ongoing sectoral technical assistance and advisory work
underpinned the policy dialogue and implementation support on detailed policy actions in the
areas of business climate reforms (IFC Business Climate Advisory), liberalization of markets for
agricultural inputs, food safety reform and financial system (WB-financed Agricultural
Competitiveness Project) and capital market development (WB Financial Sector Development
Technical Assistance). Building the DPO program on this broader WBG engagement enabled the
WB and the Government to leverage deep technical and policy dialogue in the design and
implementation of key policy actions.



3
 While the external reinforcement of reforms was effective, it should be noted that it also creates a
potential risk, in case external political relations of the country change.


                                                      9
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

27.     A results framework was designed and agreed with the Government at appraisal,
and adequate arrangements are in place to track program progress. The results framework,
agreed at appraisal, established a set of outcome indicators, together with baseline and target
values. Given the long-term nature of the reforms embedded in the policy program, the results
framework identified intermediate outcomes to track progress. Several prior actions, especially
those that put in place framework legislation (some of which only came into effect during 2013)
will require complex institutional changes in order to translate into the ultimate outcomes
intended by the program. 4 Therefore, the results framework appropriately identified intermediate
reform outcomes to assess progress and impact. The State Chancellery, as the coordinating body
for the DPO, is responsible for collecting and monitoring these indicators (the most recent status
is being reported in section 3 of this report). The outcomes of the operation were also aligned
with the Government’s Activity Program for 2011-2014 entitled “European Integration: Freedom,
Democracy, Welfare” and are therefore integrated in the M&E arrangements of this broader
Government Program. As part of the monitoring process, the government receives quarterly
reports from each government agency on implementation status for each area envisioned by the
Program.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

28.     A new programmatic series of two DPOs will sustain support to the Government’s
reform program and provide continuity in policy dialogue. The Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) for FY2014-17, discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on September 5, 2013,
envisages continued policy lending to support reforms to strengthen competitiveness and enhance
sustainable growth as a core element of WBG engagement in Moldova. The new programmatic
DPO, currently under preparation, will provide continuity in the policy dialogue. It will support
reforms to: i) improve predictability of the business enabling environment, create even conditions
for competition, and reduce regulatory compliance costs, ii) strengthen financial sector stability,
promoting transparency and improving access to finance, and iii) promote efficiency and equity
in public investment, investment subsidies in agriculture and social assistance. Specifically, it is
expected that several prior actions under pillars 1 and 2 of the new DPO will support the
implementation of framework laws supported by the Competitiveness DPO, including the
Competition Law, State Control (inspections) Law, Capital Market Law and State Aid Law.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation




4
  For example, the enactment of the Law on Competition – while a significant achievement and necessary
precondition for the creation of competitive market environment – will by and in itself not be sufficient to
de-monopolize and enforce competitive practices across the economy. Building on the legislative
framework that was put in place with support of the DPO, further steps are needed such as the
institutionalization of the new competition council and supporting changes in the jurisprudence of the court
system. Equally, the adoption of the food safety strategy was only the first step towards established a food
safety regime conforming to EU requirements.



                                                    10
29.      Moldova is confronting a significant structural reform agenda to reorient its growth
model, strengthen competitiveness and foster stronger integration with the EU. Before the
2008/09 economic crisis, growth was driven largely by private consumption, fuelled by
substantial inflow of remittances. This growth pattern was associated with a vicious cycle of
migration, remittances, real exchange rate appreciation, loss of competitiveness, declines in
tradable sectors, persistent unemployment and thus more migration. To overcome this cycle and
to ignite more sustainable and investment driven growth and job creation, the Government
launched a comprehensive policy program of legal and administrative reforms to deregulate,
liberalize and de-monopolize the economy. The plan comprised reforms actions to improve the
investment climate, enhance competitiveness of key sectors, and strengthen the financial system
underpinned by the overarching strategy to deepen the integration with the EU through the
conclusion of a DCFTA.

30.      Against the background of these challenges, the broader policy agenda and specific
actions supported by the DPO were highly relevant when the operation was appraised, and
they remain relevant to date. The DPO provided resources to the Government to support its
strategy to enhance investment, productivity growth, job creation and competiveness, especially
of the tradable sector. By reinforcing selected high impact policy actions within the
Government’s reform program, the DPO responded appropriately to the main development
challenges faced by Moldova, namely to improve the investment climate and enhance financial
intermediation for investment. The ten prior actions combined short-term quick win actions, such
as rationalization of inspections, product conformity and permit regime, and trade liberalization
for key agricultural inputs with more strategic long-term actions that aimed to put in place
backbone legislative frameworks for a more efficient market economy, including laws on
competition, state aid and capital markets –harmonizing the legal, institutional and policy
framework with requirements for deeper integration with the EU. Taken together, the selected
policy measures constituted a focused policy program that would meaningfully contribute
towards achievement of the stated project development objective and associated outcomes.

31.      In terms of prioritization and sequencing of policy actions, the DPO program design
appropriately took into account political feasibility and implementation capacity. To
mitigate the potential adverse impacts of high degree of political uncertainty, the program
explicitly focused on actions that were both technically desirable and politically feasible. The
program was fundamentally redesigned at appraisal. The initial design at concept stage had set
out a broader policy program in the context of an envisaged programmatic series. At appraisal –
more than one year after the concept review – the team reevaluated and streamlined the program,
especially after the Government requested to proceed with a single operation instead of
programmatic series. Both program and individual actions were designed to ensure
implementability. For example, to overcome potential resistance from domestic seed producers,
the liberalization of trade in agricultural seeds initially focused on crops with limited licensed
domestic seed varieties. To ensure sustainability of reforms, the program also relied strongly on
actions that required both Government adoption and legislative enactment. Overall, this resulted
in a substantive set of prior actions that could be effectively implemented and sustained through
the operation.

32.     The program was also selective in terms of policy areas where the WBG had
substantial analytical work to inform the design of prior actions and to underpin a
substantive policy dialogue with the authorities. In the policy areas that were included in the
program, a multi-sectoral team engaged closely with the authorities not only in formulating the
overall strategic direction of the DPO policy program and identifying appropriate policy actions
but also supported implementation through both high level policy dialogue and technical


                                               11
assistance. In particular, the highly complementary design of the policy program with ongoing
technical assistance engagements in core policy areas (business climate, agriculture and financial
sector) leveraged synergy with existing WBG engagements. At the same time, the program
sought complementarity with the program of other development partners, most notably the IMF.
For example, despite the ongoing fiscal consolidation effort, the program did not contain fiscal
conditionality, mainly because fiscal consolidation measures were included as core conditionality
of the concurrent IMF program. 5

33.     The DPO was underpinned by an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. At
appraisal, the team properly identified and discussed key macroeconomic vulnerabilities,
including the potential negative impact of a protracted debt crisis in the Euro area, a slow
recovery in Russia, risks associated with non-performing assets in the banking system, and
climate related shocks in the agriculture sector. Despite these risks, the macroeconomic policy
framework was assessed as adequate, in view of the flexible exchange rate regime, inflation
targeting and generally appropriate fiscal and monetary policies, supported by an IMF program.

34.      A programmatic design would have offered advantages in addressing the medium-
term nature of the policy program, but was not feasible at appraisal. Many of the prior
actions, supported by the DPO – while substantive and necessary – will not be sufficient to
achieve the ultimate impact of increased competitiveness. For example, the framework laws that
were enacted as part of the DPO will need to be complemented by required secondary regulations
and institutional reforms to support implementation of the laws. This implies that the policy
dialogue will need to be sustained beyond the completion of prior actions of the stand-alone
operation for its impacts to fully materialize. Reflecting the medium-term nature of the supported
policy and institutional reform program the operation was originally conceived as a programmatic
DPO (at concept stage). While a programmatic design would have had clear advantages in terms
of locking in a medium-term program of sequenced policy actions (moving from enactment of
legislation to implementation), because of heightened political uncertainty the Government
expressed strong preference for a stand-alone operation. A programmatic DPO was therefore not
a feasible option at the time of appraisal.

35.      However, new programmatic DPO series, currently under preparation, is providing
the needed continuity in the policy dialogue and program implementation. Many of the
needed follow up actions in core policy areas, including competition policy, capital markets
development and investment climate reforms are included in the new programmatic DPO series
that is currently being prepared. This effectively reinforces and consolidates the impacts that were
achieved under the competitiveness DPO.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

Macroeconomic developments

36.   While Moldova faced significant risks, the macroeconomic policy framework has
remained adequate. As anticipated at appraisal, Moldova’s macroeconomic policies of


5
  In terms of fiscal conditionality it is important to note that the education sector reform agenda, which
constitutes a major fiscal reform, identified at concept stage was spun off into a separate results based
operation which appeared to be the more appropriate instrument given the breadth and depth of this
particular reform area.



                                                     12
maintaining flexible exchange rates and inflation targeting, as well as low public debt levels, have
effectively mitigated key macroeconomic risks. Overall, macroeconomic stability and
sustainability have been preserved and – despite persistent risks – the outlook is somewhat
stronger than expected at appraisal. An output contraction in 2012 was followed by a strong
rebound in 2013. External imbalances have narrowed and are sustainable, given current financial
inflows. Inflation remains subdued and well within the range targeted by the NBM. Sustained
fiscal consolidation has contained budget deficits, despite a slump in revenue collections in 2012
(however, deficits remain somewhat higher than expected at appraisal). External and public debt
remains sustainable at current levels and financing costs. The IMF program expired in April 2013
after disbursing SDR 320 million (out of SDR 368, initially allocated), but the program largely
achieved its main objectives, notwithstanding non-completion of the last program review. 6

37.      Growth slowed more markedly in 2012 than expected at appraisal, but this was
followed by a strong rebound in 2013. In 2012, GDP contracted by 0.8 percent (compared to 1
percent growth, projected at appraisal) as a result of sluggish external demand and a drought-
induced sharp contraction in agriculture (both factors were appropriately identified as major risks
at appraisal). This contraction was followed by a rapid recovery with 8 percent growth during the
first three quarters of 2013. On the back of strong recovery in the agricultural sector and solid
growth in manufacturing and construction, economic growth is now expected to accelerate to at
least 7 percent by the end of 2013 (compared to 3 percent, projected at appraisal).

38.     The current account deficit narrowed which together with a recovery in FDI and
remittances bolstered foreign exchange reserves. From 11.3 percent in 2011, the current
account deficit narrowed to 7 percent in 2012 and 8.6 percent in the first half of 2013 (lower than
-11 percent projected for 2012 at appraisal). While the trade deficit remained large, export growth
(8.4 percent) continued to outpace import growth (6.3 percent) during the first 6 months of 2013.
On the back of inflows from Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) countries, growth of
remittances remained strong at around 7 percent in 2013H1 almost reaching pre-crisis levels.
Although Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) recovered in the first half of 2013 to 3.3 percent of
GDP, it has not reached pre-crisis levels. In mid-2013, total external debt stood at 81 percent of
GDP. Overall, the external position was strong and enabled accumulation of foreign exchange
reserves, now covering over 5 months of projected future imports.

39.     Inflation has remained subdued. The NBM managed to maintain the CPI inflation
within the inflationary target of 5+/-1.5 percent for the last year and a half. By November 2013,
consumer inflation reached 4.9 percent y/y.(as projected at appraisal).

40.      Fiscal consolidation efforts continued, but budget deficits remain slightly above the
level, projected at appraisal. As a result of the sharper economic slowdown, the 2012 budget
deficit turned out slightly higher than projected at appraisal (-2.3 percent of GDP compared to -
1.3 percent projected at appraisal). However, the rapid economic recovery in 2013 was associated
with strong revenue performance. Meanwhile, government spending lagged and the deficit
narrowed in Jan-Oct 2013 to an estimated 0.5 percent of GDP, compared to 1.2 percent of GDP
over the same period in 2012. Budget execution plans estimate the deficit to widen to 2.35
percent by the end of the year (above the level, projected for 2013 at appraisal).




6
    See Concluding Statement of the IMF Mission to the Republic of Moldova, June 25, 2013.




                                                    13
Program Outcomes

41.     The objective of the DPO was to enhance Moldova’s competitiveness by increasing
exports, deepening financial markets, enhancing the development impact of remittances
and broadening the drivers of economic growth. Specifically, this pertained to (a) improving
productivity and attracting new investment for exports through investment climate reform and (b)
improving finance for investment. Across these two pillars and ten specific prior actions, the
program reinforced reforms to adapt the policy and institutional framework to the demands of
deeper trade and economic integration with the EU (embedded in the DCFTA and Association
Agreement).

42.      The prior actions implemented under the DPO resulted in tangible reforms of the
business climate and financial system, laying the foundation for improvements in
competitiveness. The prior actions and broader policy dialogue supported by the DPO resulted in
significant reforms across a range of important policy areas (discussed in detail in subsequent
sections). Reform progress is reflected in achievement of outcome indicators, envisaged in the
DPO results framework. Out of the nine outcome indicators, included in the original result
framework, six have been achieved in terms of targets set at appraisal. Two of the remaining
indicators have seen progress but not yet fully reached the targets set at appraisal. Only one
indicator does not yet show measurable progress, but there are indications that progress is
underway. Table 2 below presents the status of outcome indicators and explanation for the results
achieved.

Table 2 Program Development Outcome Indicators
         Indicator              Baseline     Original      Actual                 Comments
                                Values       Target         Value
                                              Value    Achieved at
                                                       Completion
                                                         (October
                                                            2013)
Medium-term Objective: Reduce administrative constraints on businesses
Reduce time and average       17 days       12 days     15 days and Partially achieved. Time and
cost of obtaining permits       and           and          US$215      cost have been reduced, but the
                             US$283        US$200           (2012      target values are still to be met.
                               (2010         (2012        average)
                             average)      average)
Reduce time and average       14 days       10 days     12 days and Partially achieved. Time and
cost for certificate            and           and          US$158      cost have been reduced, but the
compliance                   US$192        US$100         (Feb-Apr     target values are still to be met.
                               (2010         (2013          2013)
                             average)      average)
Reduce the proportion of       100%           Zero           Zero      Achieved. Moldovan exporters
Moldovan exporters to the     (2010)        (2013)         (2013)      are not required to comply with
EU who are required to                                                 the Moldovan product standards
comply with the Moldovan                                               in addition to the EU standards.
product standards in
addition to the EU
standards
Reduce the number of             64            33             33       Achieved. The number of
inspection bodies           inspection    inspection     inspection    inspection bodies was cut by
                              bodies        bodies         bodies      merging some functions
                              (2010)        (2013)         (2013)      together.
Medium-term Objective: Encourage competitive practices in the domestic market



                                                   14
         Indicator             Baseline     Original        Actual                Comments
                               Values       Target           Value
                                             Value      Achieved at
                                                        Completion
                                                          (October
                                                             2013)
The Competition Council         Zero      Applied in The Council Achieved.
to exercise its new powers    (August         100%          started
of investigating alleged        2012)         cases      exercising
violations (without                          (2013)         its new
applying to a court                                       powers in
decision)                                                     2013
Medium-term Objective: Improve farmers’ access to modern technologies
Pilot new varieties for         Zero      Piloting of    Piloted 36    Achieved.
underrepresented              piloting         new       crops with
crops                          (2011)       varieties   less than 10
                                           covers 10       varieties
                                              crops         (2013)
                                             (2013)
Medium-term Objective: Advance alignment of food safety regulations with EU practice
Consolidate the number of       Four         Single        A single    Achieved. All food safety
agencies engaged in food      agencies       agency        National    functions were transferred to
safety                         (2011)        (2013)     Food Safety the newly created National
                                                           Agency      Food Safety Agency.
                                                           created
                                                         (Jan 2013)
Medium-term Objective: Improve access to private finance for investment
Provide licenses to non-        Zero       At least 3     None has     In progress. There are
bank                        (June 2012)     (by end-     applied (as   potentially 6 local non-bank
payment service providers                     2013)      of October    payment service providers
                                                             2013)     which are expected to apply for
                                                                       licenses.
Require all commercial          Zero          100%        All banks    Achieved.
banks to apply IFRS            applied        apply        applied
                               (2011)        (2012)          IFRS
                                                            (2012)

PILLAR 1: IMPROVE PRODUCTIVITY AND ATTRACT NEW INVESTMENT FOR EXPORTS
THROUGH INVESTMENT CLIMATE REFORM

43.      Pillar 1 of the policy program supported reforms to improve the investment climate.
The prior actions combined several measures to ease the administrative burden, establish a
functioning competition framework and specifically targeted interventions to improve the
business environment for agriculture – one of Moldova’s key sectors with export potential. In
many areas these policy actions have already translated into intermediate impacts, including
lower regulatory compliance cost (as reported in enterprise surveys), important institutional
changes in the competition council, better access to agricultural technologies and a complete
overhaul of the food safety regime in line with EU requirements. Beyond the individual prior
actions, progress in business climate reforms is also corroborated by the results of the World
Bank Doing Business Ratings where Moldova improved its rank from 86 in 2013 to 78 in 2014,
reflecting progress in the indicators related to licensing, permits, credit access, and tax
administration. These initial outcomes that have been achieved at completion contribute towards
achievement of the ultimate project development of improved competitiveness.



                                                 15
Medium-Term Objective: Reducing administrative constraints on business

44.      The permits regime in Moldova has undergone reforms, aimed to streamline
procedures for obtaining permits. A legislative act on regulating the permits regime—the
Permits Law (No. 160)—was approved in 2011 and became effective on April 14, 2012. There
was a general expectation that the Permits Law, as part of the next phase of the permits reform
(Guillotine 2+), would significantly streamline the permits procedures and would reduce time and
cost spent by entrepreneurs on obtaining permits from authorizing government bodies. The
adopted Permits Law, in particular, reduced the number of activities subject to required permits
and introduced the principle ‘silence is consent’ (an automatic permit authorization, if there is no
official response received after 10 days from submitting a permit application). According to the
cost-of-doing-business methodology, there was a material improvement in average time and cost
of obtaining permits in Moldova since 2010, the baseline for most of DPO indicators (Figure 2).
During the period of 2010-2012, the average time and cost of obtaining permits declined from 17
days and $283 to 13 days and $224, respectively. Although they were slightly above the DPO
targeted values of 12 days and $200 for 2012, the overall trend in the permits regime is apparently
changing to the better.

Figure 2. The permits regime is changing          Figure 3. The shift to EU standards
to the better, both in terms of time and          helped to streamline the certification
cost spent                                        procedures




Source: Ministry of Economy of Moldova.           Source: Ministry of Economy of Moldova.

45.      The product conformity certification system has been aligned with EU norms. Out of
246 items subject to mandatory product conformity certification in the original list adopted in
2004 (Government Decision No. 1469), only 38 items (12 food items and 26 mineral and
manufactured goods) were left in the revised list as of mid-2011. Most of the items in the original
list became subject to technical regulations, aligned with the EU norms, and therefore were
removed from the list. The list with the remaining 38 items appeared to be redundant, as it had a
limited coverage anyway, and was abrogated completely by the Government Decision No. 823 of
November 7, 2011. Technical regulations for some of these items were introduced later (e.g. the
Government Decision No. 473 of July 03, 2012 On Technical Regulation for Beer and Beer
Products) where product conformity is ensured either: (a) by a certificate issued by an accredited
certification body, or (b) by a declaration of conformity issued by a manufacturer which has a
certified food safety management system and an accredited laboratory or a contract with an
accredited laboratory. Following this shift in the product conformity certification system toward
EU norms, time and cost for certificate compliance have been reduced substantially since 2010
(Figure 3). According to the cost-of-doing-business methodology, the average time and cost for
certificate compliance declined from 14 days and $192 in 2010 to 12 days and $158 in 2013.




                                                16
Although the overall trend is positive, the DPO target at 10 days and $100 for 2013 was set at a
very optimistic level that is unlikely to be achieved in the near future.

46.      Moldova is moving towards full harmonization of national product standards with
EU standards. Recent modifications to the Standardization Law of 1995 followed the EU
Directive 98/34/EC and removed the requirement for Moldovan exporters to the EU to comply
with the Moldovan product standards in addition to the EU ones. These modifications (Law No.
32) became effective on October 20, 2012 and envisaged voluntary application of domestic
standards, as well as some institutional changes in the system, such as separation of metrology
and standardization functions and creation of the Standardization Council. Effectively, the DPO
target for 2013 was fully met as none of Moldovan exporters to the EU market had to meet both
types of standards (national and EU) since October 20, 2012. This new way of dealing with
product standards should facilitate faster harmonization of national product standards with the EU
ones. As of 2013, according to the Ministry of Economy data, about 8,000 international and EU
standards were adopted as national standards and there are many more to follow.

47.     The number of inspection bodies in Moldova has been halved. The Government of
Moldova adopted a new legislation on State Control over Entrepreneurial Activity (Law No. 131)
to improve the controlling environment for entrepreneurs. The law, that became effective on
March 1, 2013, introduced a risk-based approach to inspections, streamlined unnecessary forms
and other data provision requirements, and, more importantly, eliminated some overlapping
inspection functions in 64 controlling/inspecting bodies in Moldova. As a result of reviewing the
duplicating functions, the number of controlling/inspecting bodies was cut from 64 to 33
inspection bodies in 2013, as was anticipated initially. The new system of inspections is supposed
to improve entrepreneurial activity by rewarding businesses that comply with the requirements
while punishing those that persistently break the required norms.

    i)      Medium-Term Objective: Encouraging competitive practices in the domestic
            market

48.      The competition framework has been aligned with EU standards, but
implementation progress, especially with regard to the Law on State Aid, has been slower
than expected. Two legislative acts, on State Aide (Law No. 139) and on Competition (Law No.
183), were passed by the Parliament in 2012. As part of the DCFTA, the development of both
laws has been following a number of relevant EU directives to align them with the best EU
practices on providing a fair playing field in the area of state aid and competition promotion. As
far as the Law on Competition is concerned, it became effective on September 14, 2012 and 5
bylaws have been developed and adopted by the Competition Council. The new bylaws on
competition adapted the EU methodologies of identifying vertical and horizontal anticompetitive
agreements, and addressing the issues of abuse of dominant market position and economic
concentration. According to the new Law on Competition, the Competition Council gained more
power on imposing restrictions, intervening, inspecting and applying penalties within the
legislative limits and without applying to a court decision. For instance, recently, the Competition
Council, jointly with the Tourism Agency, started exercising this power by investigating a case of
alleged collusion among local tour-agents in relation to air-ticket pricing for charter flights to
Antalya. The Law on State Aid was adopted on June 15, 2012 and became effective on August 16,
2013. However, there were significant delays in institutionalizing the needed organizational
changes in the Competition Council. The legislative approval of both the new organizational
structure and the associated administrative budget was pending at the time of the ICR mission.
Despite these delays in the organizational set-up, the Competition Council has already developed



                                                17
and adopted 12 bylaws on different types of state aid, and there is a draft bylaw on sectoral
agreements which is pending adoption.

    ii)     Medium-Term Objective: Improve farmers’ access to modern technologies.

49.      The import of seeds has been partially liberalized to enhance farmers’ access to
agricultural technologies. The legislative amendments that were passed as part of the DPO
stipulated adoption of the EU Common Catalogue for a selected range of crops with obsolete and
under-represented varieties (less than 10 varieties per crop) in the national catalogue. On January
23, 2013, an internal order of the Ministry of Agriculture was issued to supplement 38 under-
represented varieties with new crops. Early indication is that the volume of imports of the
varieties that were liberalized has indeed increased significantly (by 46 percent, from 5001 kg in
2012 to 7338 kg in 2013). However, it is too early to determine whether this has in turn resulted
in raised farm productivity which would be the ultimate intended objective.

    iii)    Medium- term objective: Advance alignment of food safety regulations with EU
            practice

50.      The food safety strategy has been put in place, and the authorities are pushing
ahead with its implementation, including through the establishment of a unified food safety
agency. Establishing a well-functioning food safety regime is a pre-condition for exporting
Moldovan agricultural and food products to the EU market. The authorities continued to
gradually to move closer to the EU food safety regime and sanitary and phyto-sanitary (SPS)
standards. The adoption of the Food Safety Strategy for 2011-2015 paved the way for the creation
of the Food Safety Agency in January 2013. All food safety related responsibilities have been
transferred to the new agency, eliminating overlapping control functions. The agency was created
by a merger of 4 entities 7, totaling 38 sub-divisions, 18 SPS units at the border and 6 laboratories
with over 1,400 employees. In addition, a plan for approximation with EU standards in the SPS
area has been enacted and legislation for sanitary and phyto-sanitary and border controls has been
adopted. With financial support from the EU and WB, major efforts are undertaken to bring up
the capacities and infrastructure of the new agency in conformity with EU standards and practices.
The agency is also working on reducing the number of permits and streamlining internal
procedures. On November 22, 2013, the Law No 113 on the establishment of the principles and
requirements of food safety legislation was amended to subordinate the food safety agency
directly to the Government (from the Ministry of Agriculture prior to that). This amendment
seeks to provide for greater independence of the agency and to further expedite modernization
efforts, but it is too early to assess the impact of these recent legislative changes.

PILLAR 2: IMPROVE FINANCE FOR INVESTMENT

51.      Pillar 2 of the policy program supported selective measures to strengthen market
based financial intermediation and facilitate investment. Pillar 2 supported three prior actions
to enhance the legal framework in the financial system. The Law on Payment Services put in
place the appropriate regulatory and supervisory framework to ensure more effective consumer
protection in the payment service market, facilitate lower cost and higher security payment
transaction services, including for cross border transactions (related to remittances). Following
the provisions of the Law No. 267, all licensed commercial banks made the transition from


7
  Ministry of Health, Ministry of Economy, Sanitary-Veterinary Agency, and Phyto-Sanitary Agency (the
latter two were both subordinated to the Ministry of Agriculture)


                                                  18
National Accounting Standards (NAS) to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for
their 2012 reports. Finally, the Law on Capital Markets overhauled the regulatory framework for
capital market, enhancing the level of investor protection and mitigating systemic risks while
enabling a deepening of capital markets to facilitate investment.

52.      Overall the financial sector continues to recover well from the global financial crisis,
but persistent challenges in some institutions potentially stifle investor perceptions and
investment. Since appraisal, the banking system has remained liquid, well capitalized, and
profitable. Year-on-year credit growth has been on a positive trend since mid-2010, reaching 17.8
percent as of mid-2013. During the same timeframe, the banking system’s liquidity ratio was 31.2
percent and capital adequacy ratio (CAR) stood at 23.3 percent, well above the 16 percent
required by the National Bank of Moldova (NBM). At the same time, the ratio of nonperforming
loans (NPLs), which peaked at 17.8 percent of total loans in mid-2010, decreased gradually over
the past three years, registering 12.7 percent as of mid-2013. Despite these overall positive
developments, one important domestic bank (Banca de Economii de Moldova, BEM) continues to
experience chronic asset quality and capital adequacy problems. Moreover, a non-transparent,
hostile take-over of one of the largest Moldova in the first half of 2013 potentially undermines
investor confidence despite progress in strengthening institutional environment and overall
governance framework, including those supported by the DPO.

    iv)     Medium- term objective: Improving access to private finance for investment

53.     The Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money instituted the legal framework
necessary for efficient and competitive operation of payment service and electronic money
providers. The law is compliant with the provisions of two relevant EU directives. While non-
bank payment providers have been operating in Moldova prior to the enactment of the law, the
law has put in place an appropriate regulatory and supervisory framework to ensure efficiency of
the payment service market and more effective consumer protection. Specific provisions include
licensing requirements and procedures, as well as rules for the operation of payment service
providers and electronic money issuers, information disclosure, and prudential supervision. The
law is expected to result in lower transaction costs and higher security payment services,
including for cross border payments (related to remittances). The law is also expected to facilitate
wider use of cash-less transactions thereby attracting more liquidity to formal financial
intermediation and indirectly contributing to mobilization of funds for investment. The law
entered into force on September 15, 2013 and steps are underway to move towards
implementation. NBM has adopted key secondary regulations. Moreover, NBM also established a
National Council for Payments to facilitate the efficient functioning of the payment system and to
serve as a consultative forum for the operators of the payment system, regional and international
clearing houses. Existing non-bank payment providers have been given one year to obtain
licenses and, at completion, no license applications had been received by NBM. However,
reportedly, six potential payment providers have signaled interest in obtaining a license. 8

54.     All commercial banks have adopted international financial reporting standards,
harmonizing financial reporting with EU practice. Following the provisions of the Law No.
267 and related secondary regulations, adopted by NBM, in 2012 all licensed commercial banks
made the transition from National Accounting Standards (NAS) to International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS), reporting Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss for 2012 according to


8
  The National Post, two mobile operators and three terminal-cash operating companies are reportedly
preparing license applications.


                                                19
IFRS standards. This is expected to contribute to strengthened transparency in the banking sector
and to improve investor confidence in the financial reports of banks.

55.      The Law on Capital Markets has put in place an improved framework for better
regulated, more efficient and transparent capital markets. The new law (which replaces the
previous Law on Securities) is designed to set and maintain higher standards of capital market
supervision, raise the level of investor protection, and mitigate systemic risks while enabling a
deepening of capital markets to facilitate investment. The law transposes the provisions of eleven
relevant EU Directives on capital market regulation, largely harmonizing the legislative and
institutional framework for financial markets with EU requirements. Specifically, it regulates the
activities of investment firms, public offerings, capital market infrastructure (including creation
of regulated markets (stock exchanges) and multilateral trading facilities established by
investment firms), and information disclosure. Compared to the previous law on securities, this
law liberalizes capital market operations while strengthening provisions for prudential
supervision, consumer protection and information disclosure. However, some weaknesses in the
regulatory framework remain. For example, due to opposition by some market operators, the
reform of the securities registry model was not covered by the Capital Market Law, constraining
the development of the securities market. 9 The National Commission of Financial Markets is now
in the process of preparing the required secondary regulations to further develop the provisions of
the law. The law only became effective on September 14, 2013 and market participants are given
18 months transition period to comply with new requirements. While it is a step forward with
regard to strengthening the regulatory framework of capital markets, it is too early to observe any
discernible impact in terms of capital market developments.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

56.     The overall outcome rating of satisfactory reflects relevance of the supported policy
program and the intermediate impacts that were achieved at completion. Design and
implementation of the DPO were technically sound. Underpinned by an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework, the operation supported a substantive, yet politically feasible policy program
that responded well to the pertinent development challenges and was clearly linked with the
stated project development objective and associated outcomes. Significant reforms were
implemented and have already resulted in measurable impacts. Six (out of nine) outcome
indicators in the results framework have been achieved and progress is underway for the other
three indicators. Administrative barriers (redundant permits and conformity certification) have
been removed as planned. Product standards are being harmonized with EU practices. The
number of inspection bodies has been halved from 64 to 33 official bodies. The new Competition
Council developed a number of bylaws required for implementation of the Law on Competition
and the Law on State Aid. The trade regime for agricultural seeds has been partially liberalized,
improving farmer access to better technology, as indicated by increased imports of seed varieties
that were liberalized. The National Food Security Agency was established and food safety
functions were unified. The National Bank of Moldova has adopted the new Law on Payment
Services and Electronic Money and is set to receive applications from non-bank payment service
providers for obtaining special licenses. All commercial banks have produced and published



9
 This weakness is expected to be addressed through amendments to the capital markets law, which will be
supported under the envisaged new, programmatic DPO.


                                                  20
IFRS compliant financial statements in 2012. Finally, the Law on Capital Markets has improved
the legal and regulatory environment for more efficient, market based financial intermediation.

57.     While initial outcomes are evident, the full impact of some of the policy measures on
the ultimate objective of increased competitiveness will only unfold in the coming years.
Building on the prior actions that were completed under the DPO, further efforts are required to
enable implementation of the revised legal frameworks. This includes enactment of required
secondary regulations as well as broader institutional reforms to put the new legal provisions to
practice. In this regard, a programmatic design would have offered benefits in addressing the
medium-term nature of the supported policy program. While this option was not feasible at the
time of appraisal, the new programmatic DPO series, currently under preparation, builds on
several of key actions supported by the Competiveness DPO, effectively providing the needed
continuity in the policy dialogue and program implementation and reinforcing the impacts already
achieved.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

58.      By enhancing the growth potential of the economy, the reforms supported by the
DPO are expected to contribute to further gains in poverty alleviation. Given the cross-
cutting nature of supported reforms of the business climate and financial sector, no quantified
poverty and social impact assessment was undertaken at appraisal. However, the policy program
is expected to generate indirect positive impacts through growth, employment and remittance
channels. Moldova has achieved significant poverty reduction. The national poverty rate fell from
30.2 percent in 2006 to 17.5 percent in 2011 while extreme poverty fell from 4.5 percent to 0.9
percent over the same period. These gains were driven by strong economic growth, greater
employment and higher earnings as well as remittances. In addition, growth in the consumption
of the bottom 40 percent of the population outpaced average growth in consumption: estimates
for 2006-11 suggest an annualized consumption growth of 5.8 percent for the bottom 40 percent,
compared to 2.9 percent growth in overall consumption. The reforms supported by the DPO may
facilitate higher investment into the Moldovan economy and bring benefits to the population at
large, as well as to the poor segments of the population. Alignment of Moldovan standards and
regulations to EU practices would improve market access and stimulate exports to the EU market,
impacting positively on employment and wage growth in Moldova. Structural reforms in the
agricultural sector would in particular benefit the rural population, where poverty incidence is
higher. The application of licenses to non-bank payment service providers may potentially lower
transaction costs associated with the transfer of remittances.

59.      Ongoing structural reforms will also potentially have a positive impact on female
workforce and entrepreneurs. Further improvements in the business environment are
considered to be more important for women-run businesses, as they are less inclined to make
informal payments and thus more sensitive to corruption practices. This was confirmed by the
2009 enterprise survey where 14 percent of women (vs. 9 percent of men) identified corruption as
the biggest impediment for doing business in Moldova. A recently adopted Regulation of the
Competition Council on State Aid for Starting a Business by Women Entrepreneurs is supposed
to support business initiatives of women from the early start. Business environment reforms that
facilitate investment and export growth are also important for women employed in the services
sector and in agriculture, where women employment is the highest. Higher productivity in these
sectors would enhance competitiveness of Moldovan producers and improve the living standards
of the population, both women and men.


                                               21
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

60.      The DPO supported alignment of the overall regulatory and institutional
framework with EU practices, and contributed to improved capacity to formulate,
implement and monitor reforms. The DPO explicitly supported institutional change and
strengthening and prior actions directly impacted on core elements of the institutional framework
in Moldova. New laws on competition, state aid, payment services, capital markets,
improvements in the inspection, standardization and food safety regimes all contributed to
improving the overall institutional framework and harmonizing it with the requirements of deeper
integration with the EU. Aside from these macro-institutional impacts that were achieved through
the completion of prior actions, the policy dialogue and technical assistance have also contributed
to improved capacity to formulate, implement and monitor policies at the level of both the State
Chancellery (which served as the main coordinating counterpart) and relevant line ministries.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

61.      The risk to the development outcome is rated as significant, reflecting technical and
political risks. The authorities remain committed to the overall reform path which will also be
anchored in the EU Association Agreement which was initialed in November 2013. The risk of a
change in the overall direction of reforms is therefore relatively unlikely, especially before the
next parliamentary elections in late 2014/early 2015. However, progress in individual reform
areas could be reversed or stalled as a result of possible political tensions within the governing
coalition which may intensify in the lead up to the elections. The main technical risk relates to the
challenge of implementation. The DPO program was heavily focused on putting in place
improved legal frameworks. Enacting good laws is an important and necessary first step.
However, for these frameworks to translate into effective changes in the way the economy
operates and to increase competitiveness, consistent implementation is essential. Incomplete
implementation either due to lack of resources, capacity constraints or because of resistance from
special interest groups could substantially undermine the intended impact of the operation. In
addition, weaknesses in governance could potentially jeopardize the independence and
effectiveness of public institutions and agencies, including those involved in implementing the
legal changes supported by the DPO. Continuity in the policy program of the upcoming
programmatic DPO mitigates these risks.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

62.     The design of the DPO was technically sound and adequately calibrated to the
political environment and implementation capacity. The DPO design incorporated a focused
program of prior actions that were relevant and critical, enjoyed broad support both within the
Government and the Parliament, and that could be supported by a substantive policy dialogue and
implementation support from WBG, underpinned by analytical and technical assistance



                                                 22
engagements. The prior actions were sufficiently linked to the stated project development
objective, although achieving the ultimate impacts of enhanced competitiveness, increased
exports, and deepened financial markets, higher impact of remittances and broader sources of
economic growth (all of which are included in the formulation of PDO) will require efforts
beyond the completion of this program. The macroeconomic policy framework was thoroughly
analyzed and correctly deemed adequate. A results framework with measurable outcome targets
was designed and agreed with the authorities. The main channels through which prior actions
were expected to affect poverty and gender were identified, although no quantification was
undertaken due to the cross-cutting nature of the supported policy program. Finally, the design
provided a comprehensive analysis of technical, political and governance risks and identified
appropriate mitigation measures.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

63.     The operation hinged on a continuous policy dialogue from program design through
implementation. The operation was well supervised. The multi-sectoral team that supervised
implementation of the program had a good understanding of details of various reform agendas,
processes of achieving them, and the political economy of the reforms in each area. Moreover,
key team members of the operation were based in Chisinau, enabling day-to-day engagement
with relevant counterparts. Beyond the task team, the Country Management Unit supported the
high-level policy dialogue.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

64.     Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory based on satisfactory dimension
ratings for quality at entry and supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

65.      Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory, reflecting
implementation of all prior actions despite some delays that occurred due to political
uncertainty. The pace of program implementation was initially affected by a particularly volatile
political environment. As a result, delays occurred in the preparation of the operation after the
concept stage. Moreover, reflecting heightened political uncertainty, the authorities were not
ready to commit to a reform program beyond immediate priorities and requested conversion of
the DPO – which was originally conceived as a programmatic series at concept stage – into a
stand-alone operation. DPO implementation picked up after the political situation stabilized in
March 2012. Implementation of prior actions accelerated with six out of the ten policy actions in
the program implemented between March and September 2012. This steady progress towards the
stated development objectives enabled appraisal and Board presentation of the DPO.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance



                                               23
Rating: Satisfactory

66.     The performance of implementing agencies is rated satisfactory, reflecting effective
implementation arrangements. To support design, implementation and monitoring of the DPO
program, the Government of Moldova established a special Inter-Ministerial Commission
dedicated to developing the DPO policy matrix and ensuring timely implementation of policy
actions. The State Chancellery was put in charge of policy coordination and overall DPO
administration and collaborated closely with the Bank not only during the design and
implementation phase, but also during the preparation of the ICR. The government’s own
assessment of the DPO was conducted in time and was provided to the Bank in mid-October 2013
(see Annex 2). All individual agencies involved in the program (e.g. Ministry of Economy,
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry, Competition Council, National Commission for
Financial Markets, National Bank of Moldova), as well as members of Parliament of relevant
commissions supported the implemented of the program.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

67.      Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Since the political uncertainties
that were an impeding factor in Project implementation during the concept stage were largely
outside the control of the Government, it is weighed less strongly than the solid implementation
arrangements that ensured steady and timely implementation, once political uncertainties were
resolved. Based on these considerations, the overall borrower performance rating is rated as
satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

68.      Close alignment of the DPO with the Government reform program facilitates
program implementation. All DPO prior actions were closely aligned with the Government’s
overarching policy objective of fostering sustainable economic growth through European
integration, investment, innovation and competiveness, as reflected in the Government Action
Plan: “European Integration: Freedom, Democracy, Welfare”. Moreover, the supported policy
program was also closely tied to the EU association agenda, which reinforced the Government
reform agenda and provided an additional external anchor for its implementation. The prospect of
achieving EU association not only provided a clear and concrete policy agenda in key reform
areas but also reinforced incentives for consistent and time bound reform implementation.

69.      Broad consultations, including with the key members of the Parliament help ensure
feasibility, especially in a politically volatile environment. Extensive consultations were held
both during design and implementation of the program, including with the center of government
(State Chancellery and MOF), concerned line ministries (Agriculture, Economy), members of
parliament, and civil society (including academia, business associations, and NGOs). This broad
approach to consultations helped the team to identify key reforms, but also develop an
understanding of the broader political environment and its implications on feasibility of different
reform measures. It also contributed to building a broader support base for key reform actions,
especially those that required legislative approval.

70.     Solid analytical underpinnings inform the design and implementation of the overall
program and individual measures. The Country Economic Memorandum (CEM), completed in
2011, provided the main analytical foundation for the design of the operation. It helped to put in


                                                24
place an overall strategic framework for the operation, in which individual policy actions could
be prioritized.

71.     Strong complementarities between the DPO and the WBG’s sectoral engagement
improve the effectiveness of both. Ongoing sectoral technical assistance and advisory work
underpinned the policy dialogue and implementation support on detailed policy actions in the
areas of business climate reforms (IFC Business Climate Advisory), liberalization of markets for
agricultural inputs, food safety reform and financial system (WB-financed Agricultural
Competitiveness Project) and capital market development (WB Financial Sector Development
Technical Assistance). Building the DPO program on this broader WBG engagement enabled the
Bank and the Government to leverage the deep technical and policy dialogue in the design and
implementation of key policy actions.

72.     While a stand-alone DPO has limitations in addressing complex institutional change,
it can be effective if continuity in the policy dialogue and program implementation is
ensured. Achieving the results that are ultimately supported by the DPO requires a series of
appropriately sequenced policy actions, moving from enactment of laws to implementation. In
this regard, a programmatic design would have offered benefits in addressing the medium-term
nature of the supported policy program. While this option was not feasible at the time of appraisal,
the new programmatic DPO series, currently under preparation, heavily builds on several of the
key actions supported by the Competiveness DPO, effectively providing needed continuity in the
policy dialogue and program implementation and reinforcing the impacts already achieved.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

73.      The implementing agency participated actively in the ICR visit and provided its
own Implementation Completion Report. A representative of the State Chancellery joined most
meetings conducted by the ICR team. The implementing agency also provided the Bank with a
comprehensive project evaluation report (Annex 2), which shows principal consistency between
the Bank and the implementing agency regarding project accomplishments, but also with regard
to remaining challenges. The report notes in particular the need to assess the prior actions of this
DPO and their impact in the context of a more medium-term timeframe, emphasizing that the
results so far are intermediate and final impact can be assessed only after complete
implementation. At the same time, the report points out that the decision to proceed with a stand-
alone operation provided the needed short term focus on implementing a front-loaded program of
policy actions. The report highlights the need to pay particular attention to the design of the result
framework to ensure indicators are formulated in a clear and unambiguous fashion. The
authorities also point to the need for further efforts to strengthen coordination among
development partners. Finally, the report indicates that the financing envelope of budget support
operations should be commensurate with the costs associated with supported policy reforms.

                    Table 4 ICR Ratings
                                              ICR Team           Implementing
                    Assessed Area
                                              Rating             Agency Rating
                    Overall Project Outcome   Satisfactory       Satisfactory
                    Borrower Performance      Satisfactory       Satisfactory
                    Bank Performance          Satisfactory       Satisfactory



                                                 25
(b) Other partners and stakeholders

74.     The ICR team had an opportunity to discuss project outcomes with representatives
of the business community. These stakeholders acknowledged the Government’s efforts to
improve the business climate, but also noted remaining challenges. The representatives welcomed
progress in harmonizing the legal framework with EU requirements, but pointed to the need to
move swiftly to implementation. For example, the Law on Competition was considered a good
law, but stakeholders expressed serious skepticism with regard to prospects of addressing the ‘big
cases’ of monopolization in the economy. While noting the potential positive effect of changes in
the food safety regime and consolidation of inspection bodies, the stakeholders expressed that the
actual practice of food safety and other inspections has not yet changed sufficiently.




                                               26
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
            Names                          Title                    Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Iaroslav Baclajanschi      Economist                               ECSP3
Hemant Baihal                                                      ECSPF
Jessica Boccardo           Consultant                              ECSP3
Ghenadie Cotelnic          Consultant                              ECF1
Mame Fatou Irene Aminata
                           Senior Economist                        ECSP3
Diagne
Sandu Ghidirim             Operations Officer                      ECSEG
Matthias Grueninger                                                ECSAR
Vitalie Iovita             Consultant                               ECSP3
Maureen Itepu              Program Assistant                        ECSP3
Holger A. Kray             Lead Agriculture Economist              LCSAR
Roman Ladus                                                        CEUIC
Rosalind Levacic           Consultant                               ECSP3
Martin Melecky             Senior Financial Sector Specialist       ECSF2
Dino Leonardo Merotto      Lead Economist                          PRMED
Lalita M. Moorty           Lead Economist and Sector Leader        ECSPE
Victor Neagu               Communications Associate                ECCMD
James L. Neumann           Senior Counsel                          LEGPS
Shinya Nishimura           Senior Energy Specialist                ECSEG
Olasupo Olusi              Economist                                ECSP3
Mikhail Onu                Consultant                              CEUIC
Eugeniu Osmochescu         Operations Officer                      CEUIC
Ruslan Piontkivsky         Senior Economist                         ECSP3 Task Team Leader
Melissa Rekas              Private Sector Development Specialist    ECSF1
Lilia Razlog               Debt Specialist                         PRMED
Andreas Schliessler        Lead Transport Specialist               MNSTI
Siddhartha Raja            ICT Policy Specialist                   TWICT
Karlis Smits               Senior Economist                        EASPC
Lars M. Sondergaard        Country Sector Coordinator              EASHE
Victor Sula                Senior Economist                        AFTP1
Viorica Dumitri Strah      Program Assistant                       ECCMD
Iuliana Stratan            Program Assistant                       ECCMD
Faith Tempest              Consultant                              ECCMD
Marius Vismantas           Country Sector Coordinator              EASFP
Wendy Jo Werner            Manager                                 CEAIC
Supervision
                                                                           ICR Task Team
Sebastian Eckardt          Senior Economist                        ECSP3
                                                                           Leader
Marcel Chistruga           Economist                                ECSP3
Ruslan Piontkivsky         Senior Economist                         ECSP3 Task Team Leader
Ilyas Sarsenov             Senior Economist                         ECSP1
Viorica Dumitri Strah      Program Assistant                       ECCMD



                                               27
(b) Staff Time and Cost (as of November 12, 2013)
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
               Stage                                              US$ Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY11                                46.64                       300.660
FY12                                52.68                       212.605
FY13                                31.81                       123.365
                             Total: 131.13                      636.63
Supervision/ICR
FY14                                4.50                        26.208
                             Total: 4.50                        26.208




                                             28
Annex 2. Borrower's ICR

COMPETITIVENESS DEVELOPMENT POLICY OPERATION

The proposed DPO for the amount of US$ 30 million aimed at developing and implementing key
reforms that would enhance the competitiveness on the Republic of Moldova’s economic domain.
The primary objective of the operation was to enhance Moldova’s competitiveness by increasing
exports, deepening financial markets, enhancing the development impact of remittances and
broadening the drivers of economic growth. The specific reforms proposed to be supported by the
operation are organized around two pillars:

        1. Improving productivity and attracting new investment for exports through investment
           climate reform;
        2. Strengthening financial intermediation, reducing the costs of accessing financial
           resources and streamlining procedures for credits and loans to new enterprises.


Improving finance for investment. In order to achieve this objective a series of policy actions
were agreed upon and implemented by the GoM and became part of the policy matrix under the
Loan Agreement for the program to "increase competitiveness". The DPO actions arose from the
2011-2014 Government Action Plan which aims to deepen reforms on „deregulation, liberalizing
and de-monopolization" of the economy.

The government’s policy actions focus on simplifying regulations whilst improving the Legal
framework on competition (Policies relevant to Pillar 1 of the DPO). In specific terms, the
government’s policy actions include speeding up regulatory reforms, simplifying procedures for
registration of businesses, optimizing licensing requirements, and aligning national legislation
with that of the EU. Focus is put mainly in areas of information transparency and shareholder
protection. The policy actions to increase competition focus on improving the legal and
institutional framework and aligning it with the European legislation and relevant EU
recommendations. At the same time, the Government is strengthening the institutional capacity of
the National Agency for Consumer Protection. These reforms will provide favorable pre-
conditions for a sustainable economic development by strengthening investor confidence and
increasing foreign investment flow. These reforms are expected to improve the investment
climate in the Republic of Moldova and promote investment growth.

For the Second Pillar of Government policy actions focus on strengthening financial
intermediation, reducing the costs of accessing financial resources and streamlining procedures
for credits and loans. Namely, the Government aims at introducing reforms targeted towards the
optimal use of remittances, by attracting these funds into the formal financial sector for further
intermediation to SMEs. Currently Less than 10 percent of the flow of remittances into Moldova
is retained in the formal financial sector in the form of bank deposits. In parallel, reforms will
focus on improving the availability of credit lines to profitable and creditworthy small companies.
Credit lines will increase as their investment opportunities improve with the business
environment and as more savings stay longer in financial institutions. These reforms are expected
to rise the share of financial flows channeled through the banking and non-banking sectors.
Financial sector reforms will also maximize the development impact of remittances by reducing
the costs of sending them, and increasing the share that is banked.




                                                29
The Program is consistent with the newly approved National Development Strategy: Moldova
2020, which sets out long-term development priorities. The adoption of Moldova 2020 in 2012
anchors the Government’s Program in the context of long-term development objectives.

The Consultation process of all legislative measures and reforms are subject to a thorough
consultation process with social partners, the civil society and groups likely to be impacted. In
addition, during the preparation of the Moldova 2020 strategy, the Government has introduced an
interactive web site (http://particip.gov.md/) to solicit comments and suggestion.

The benefit reflects on the Government Program itself, as well as informs debate and agreement
in Parliament. Consultations were undertaken with the NGO community.

The Government undertook extensive consultations with key stakeholders on reforms supported
by this operation. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MAFI) organized consultations
with multiple sector stakeholders, including farm associations and representatives of the private
sector of agricultural producers and processors to inform and consult on the upcoming reforms in
food safety as well as the seed variety new registration procedures. The design of the
Government’s policy initiatives in investment climate reforms included consultations with key
stakeholders from the public and private sectors, including business associations. The proposed
reforms to improve access to finance have been consulted and debated with a wide range of
stakeholders, from Ministries and Governmental agencies to financial sector regulators, to private
sector operators, to business associations and specialized mass-media consortiums. Draft laws
and legal amendments supported by this operation have been published on the respective web-
sites of Government agencies well in advance, which allowed for a constructive dialog with all
relevant stakeholders. As a result of these extensive public consultations the draft laws and legal
amendments have been improved to better serve the purpose of the proposed reforms.

Specific additional consultations took place on reforms which required strong political and public
support. For instance, consultations on consumer protection and fair trading measures, the Law on
Competition and on the Law on State Aid. Moreover, Parliament’s Budget Committee has
undertaken significant consultations on these laws and other reforms by creating ad hoc public-
private working groups for inspection, competition and insolvency related laws.

The consultation process of new laws called for a more extensive period of time compared to the
originally planed, which led to the disbursement delay of loan funds for about 6 months.

Whilst the DPO focuses particularly on the legislative and regulatory reform, sector lending
within the CPS 2009-2013 as well as Technical Assistance were supposed to provide more
specific assistance to institutions to implement reforms. EU and USA Governments are also
present with their support in implementation of investment projects and capacity building support
to the relevant authorities.

To assess the objective, design and implementation method provided the government gives a
satisfactory rating.

Each policy action in the policy matrix had objectives to be achieved and rated based on the
baseline performance of indicators compared to a target indicator using an analog source of
verification. This gave the possibility to easily monitor the implementation process of policies. Of
the 10 results that were aimed for all have been achieved in regards to the preset target, the
precondition closely related the loan disbursement of financial resources. All laws and regulations
have been approved by the Government and Parliament. Some of these actions have had an


                                                30
immediate impact (for instance eliminating the list of products subject to mandatory conformity
certification, Law on State Control. Plant variety testing and registration, etc.), others will bear
more medium-term results (Ex. Competition Law, the State Aid Food Safety Strategy etc.).
Others were start-up reforms pursuing a medium and long term economic growth and an
enhancement of the country’s competitiveness environment (Ex. Law on Payment Services and
E-Money, Law on capital Market, etc.). Details of the results of the performance indicators are
shown in Annex "Matrix of Policy Actions and Expected Outcomes"

Assessment of the Outcomes

Reduce administrative constraints on businesses.

The set of legislative and normative acts approved, reviewed and repealed during 2011 to 2012 in
terms of entrepreneurial activity have greatly facilitated the performance of indicators from the
baseline but not in all cases were targets set for the end of 2012 achieved. For example, the
average time of issuing the required entrepreneurial permits and the cost thereof, according to the
latest survey (early 2013) Cost of Doing Business reports 15 days and $ 215, which is 3 days and
$ 15 more than the target the program set for itself. Yet in terms of costs and duration to obtain
certificates of compliance, the study shows these costs and time requirements have been
completely rescinded outperforming the preset target indicator.

Mandatory conformity certification was repealed by Government Decision no. 823 of
07.11.2011.However approval of the technical requirements for some products to be exported to
the Eastern market require extensive certification of compliance (Ex, beer and furniture).
Amending Law. 590 of 22.09.1995 on Standardization "(with Law no. 32 of 06.03.2012)
harmonized the PROVISIONS of EU Directive 98/34/EC. Moldovan standards are voluntary and
Implemented by operators. Currently, the National Standards Fund approves as national
Standards - 8,000 international and European Standards.

Law No. 131 of 08.06.2012 "On state control over business activity." the Law specifies the 33
institutions empowered/competent to launch controls/inspections and also grant control mandates
in the related areas.

The State Chancellery under Law 131 "State Control over Entrepreneurial Activity" is the
Monitoring Authority undertaking inspections and quarterly measures inspection bodies, keeping
records of state controls and other relevant information. According to information acquired from
monitoring data over two quarters in 2013 (after the entry into force of Act 131), a reduced
number of planned controls on entrepreneurship trend has been observed, due to the risk-based
methodology.

Following lengthy examinations in Parliament, Competition Laws and Laws on State Aid have
been approved and published. Pending enforcement after 12 months from the date of publication
(September and August 2013 respectively), as enforcement still requires approval of the whole
package of laws.

Improve farmers' access to modern technologies.

In order to accelerate farmers’ access to the EU catalog of different variety plants, Law NR 85
from the 13th of April 2012 was elaborated and promoted, with the purpose to modify and
complement other legislative acts.
As a result the following measures have been taken:


                                                31
    •   The dismissal of the National Council on Plant Varieties, the duties being transferred to
        the State Commission for Variety Testing
    •   Replenishment of the national catalog of varieties from the common EU catalog, with
        varieties presented with less than 10 varieties in the national catalog of varieties.
    •   A new clause that would allow the import more freely of unregistered varieties in order to
        test and exhibit them at expositions.
As well, the Rulebook on Testing and Registration of plants in The National Catalog of Plant
(approved by Government Decision nr 43 from the 15th of January 2013) stipulate that, for plant
varieties of field crops, horticulture and grape -vine accepted into the catalog of one of the EU
member states of UPOV test Distinctness, Uniformity and Stability (DUS) conducted by a
competent national authority in those countries, is recognized and validated by our State
Commission for Variety Testing.

The Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Moldova has been issued order nr. 6 on the 23rd of
January 2013 on the approval of the list of varieties of plants presented with less than 10 varieties
in the Catalogue of Plant Varieties. As a result of the action taken, the volume of import of seeds
of crops included in the order named increased by 46 percent over the previous year (2012-5001
kg 2013-7338 kg).

Advance alignment of food safety regulations with EU practice.

The Food Safety Strategy for 2011-2015 was approved by The GOM and commitment to the
unification of food functions and regulations in a single agency were achieved by established in
January 2013 (Government Decision no. 51, dated 16.01.2013) a National Agency on Food
Safety (ANSA) , which is " the administrative authority under the Ministry of Agriculture and
Food responsible for implementing the state policy of regulation and control of - food safety, the
veterinary field, animal husbandry, plant protection and plant quarantine, seed control and
product quality" Currently, with the support of investment projects of the World Bank and EU
technical assistance, the process of operationalization of the institution is ongoing, in accordance
with the duties and responsibilities assigned.

Improve access to private finance for investment.

The main goals of Law on Payment Service and Electronic Money (Law) is to provide a clear
legal framework governing payment services, allow the appearance of licensed non-bank
Payment Service Providers, thus facilitating increasing competition in the provision of payment
services and electronic money instruments by banks and non-banks. Law no. 114 dated
18.05.2012 entered into force only on September 15th, 2013.

The National Bank has approved a new regulation on the activity of e-money issuers and non-
bank payment service providers, as well as other regulations made in accordance of the provision
of payment services to ensure the regulatory framework needed to implement the law.
Respectively, on the 1st of October no provider has still not asked the National Bank issuing the
operating license for electronic payments for a license, pending the dismissal of all technical
issues.

Note that beside “The National Post”, two mobile operators and three terminal-cash operating
companies are in preparation of their document packages for the issuance of the license by the



                                                 32
NB. The NB estimates that at least 6 will be emitted by the end of the year. Amendments to the
Tax Code in December 2011, with effect from January 01. 2012, made it mandatory for
commercial banks to report under International Financial Reporting Standards – IFRS. The Law
No. 171 on “Capital Markets” dated July 11, 2012 (and published in the State Gazette No. 193-
197/665 on September 14, 2012). The law will become effective in one year from the date of
publication.

Following the above-mentioned, the government assigns a satisfactory grade.

To appreciate the impact of these policy measures undertaken in 2011 and 2012, it is difficult to
assess given that the laws came into force in the second half of 2013, and still require approval of
normative acts implementing them.

Accordingly it is noted that the results so far are intermediate and final impact can be assessed
only after exhaustive implementation.

Early indicators established in the policy matrix have not taken into account the time needed
towards implementing the laws and other requirements for the practical application of their
provisions, still resulting in an achievement of the majority of target indicators. However, it has
been the Governments goal to address all targets with a highly satisfactory regard. We
acknowledge the setbacks, as is the fact that the 33 inspections institutions still do not ensure a
decreased number of field inspections.

We alleviate concern judging on the fact that the policy measures were examined at the central
level of government, consulted and validated by the Interministerial Committee for Strategic
Planning. Subsequently the signed financial agreement was approved by the Parliament, baring
legal commitments.

A satisfactory rating is assigned to borrower performance.

We can draw several lessons from this past experience, one of which will be that the
implementation phase actions are delayed for reasons both objective and subjective. This lesson
revealed how there delays are to be addressed. One of the suggestions coming about from this
lesson is to carefully phrase both indicators and targets so that their interpretation leaves no room
for doubt. Such a flaw has been omitted with regards to the interpretation of the application of
"Before the court" indicator - Mitigation of Alleged Violation on competitive practices in the
domestic market, as well as the indicator - piloting of new varieties for unrepresented crops, both
have been wrongly perceived by the implementing authorities arising confusion.

In order to ensure the successful implementation of agreed policy actions it is necessary to
mobilize internally and in cooperation between the executive and legislative bodies, namely a
synchronized action plan related to the approval of the necessary legislation towards the
implementation of public policies agreed in the policy matrices.

Undoubtedly, to see the end results of a policy that reforms a particular field a medium-term
monitoring mission is required. We appraise the six months after completion mission as one too
early to adequately asses several time-consuming issues.

We acknowledge that political instability has been the main impediment in order to achieve a
medium-term program. The Moldovan government has called for this one year operation with



                                                 33
further commitments to reforms that will increase competitiveness in order to ensure that
measures will not be postponed.

The World Bank team as our most valued development partner in the realization of these reforms
and we value their important role in achieving the program objectives successfully.

We must mention the support offered by the local WB team in effort to implement
competitiveness enhancement laws and for their broad consultations with the civil society as well
as with parliamentary committees, especially those relating to the reduction of administrative
constrains on Businesses. On the other side, regarding the law on competition and state aid,
Moldova has benefited greatly from the technical assistance from the EU twinning projects
helping promote the new laws.

The Moldovan Government reiterated to the Bank during negotiations the need to increase the
financial envelope provided under such instruments to support policy development, given the
high costs to implement the necessary structural reforms. The program targeted adjustment,
review or approval of new laws and regulations when in reality a policy implementation must be
taken into account on a similar level as well as the costs that come accordingly.

Regarding implementation of the Programme we would like to mention as a remark that there
should still be better communication and coordination between development partners active at the
country level. It is very difficult to get the desired results when each development partner is
trying to focus its inputs without taking into account the availability of resources of others
development partners present in the sector.

Covering other further non-recommended practices we would mention that the policy matrix
should not be filled with actions that directly benefit interest groups without a well-argued
economic basis. This remark comes in regard to the long discussions on the preparation of the
program around the banking and telecommunications sector actions.

Overall performance of the Bank during the preparation and implementation of the program can
be considered Satisfactory.




                                               34
Borrower ICR Results Framework
DPO PRIOR ACTIONS                              INDICATOR                       BASELINE                       TARGET                    UPDATE
                                                                                                                                        OCT/2013
Medium-term Objective: Reduce
administrative constraints on businesses
Enact the Law on Regulation by Means of        Time and average cost of        17 days and US$283 on          12 days and US$200 on     Approximately 15
Authorization of Entrepreneurial Activity to   authorizations (based on a      average in 2010                average in 2012           days and US $215
reduce the regulatory burden.                  sample of 20% most difficult
                                               authorizations) reflected in
                                               joint Ministry of
                                               Economy/IFC Report.
Reduce non-tariff barriers to trade by         Cost compliance savings from    14 days and                    10 days and               Completed:
adoption of Government Decision that           mandatory certification         US$192 on average in 2010      US$100 on average 111     Government Decision
eliminates the List of Products subject to     abrogation reflected in IFC                                    2013                      nr.823 of 07.11.2011
Mandatory Conformity Certification.            Report.                                                                                  "On the repeal of
                                                                                                                                        Government
                                                                                                                                        Decisions", which
                                                                                                                                        has repealed
                                                                                                                                        Government Decision
                                                                                                                                        no.1469 of
                                                                                                                                        30.12.2004”
                                                                                                                                        0 Days 0 US $

Enact modifications to the Standardization     Proportion of exporters to EU   100% in 2010                   Zero in 2013              Completed: Law No.
Law harmonized with the EU Directive           who                                                                                      32 of 06.03.2012
98/34/EC.                                      are also required to meet                                                                "For the amendment
                                               Moldovan product standards.                                                              of Law No 590 of
                                                                                                                                        22.09.1995 on
                                                                                                                                        standardization".

Enact the Law on State Control of              Reduction of inspection         64 inspection bodies in 2010   33 inspection bodies in   Goal Reached, 33
Entrepreneurial                                coverage by reducing the                                       2013                      institutions
Activity                                       number of inspection bodies
Medium-term Objective: Encourage
competitive practices in the domestic
market
In line with EU and international good         Application of 'before the      Zero in August                 Applied in                …..




                                                                               35
practice: (i) Enact the Law on Competition;   court'                          2012                    100% cases in
and (ii) Enact the Law on State Aid.          mitigation of alleged                                   2013
                                              violations
Medium-term Objective: Improve
farmers' access to modern technologies
Enact amendments to legislation               Piloting of new varieties for   Zero piloting in 2011   Piloting of new varieties   ….
modernizing procedures for plant variety      underrepresented crops.                                 10 crops in 2013
testing and registration.
Medium-term Objective: Advance
alignment of food safety regulations with
EU practice.
Approve (by Government decision) the          Number of agencies engaged      Four agencies in        Single agency               In accordance with
Food Safety                                   in                              2011                    in 2013                     Government Decision
Strategy for 2011-2015 that commits to the    Food safety.                                                                        no. 51 from the 16th
unification of food safety functions and                                                                                          of January 2013, the
regulations in a single agency.                                                                                                   National Food Safety
                                                                                                                                  Agency (ANSA) was
                                                                                                                                  established
Medium-term Objective: Improve access to
private finance for investment
Enact the Law on Payment Services and         Number of licensed non-bank     Zero as of June         At least 3 by               At least 6 - “Moldova
Electronic Money which enables the            Payment Service Providers.      2012                    end 2013                    Post”, two mobile
provision of payment services and e-money                                                                                         operators and three
products by the banks, non-bank financial                                                                                         terminal operating
institutions and Posta Moldovei.                                                                                                  companies. By end of
                                                                                                                                  2013
Enact amendments to the Tax Code and          Proportion of Moldovan          Zero% for               100% for                    100%
related laws to facilitate IFRS               Commercial banks reporting      financial year          financial year
implementation by all licensed banks.         to international financial      2011                    2012
                                              reporting standards.
Enact the Law on Capital Market to                                                                                                Implemented
facilitate capital market development in
Moldova.




                                                                              36
37
Annex 3. List of Supporting Documents


Program Appraisal Document, Moldova Competitiveness Development Policy Operation,
P122226, Report No. 72390-MD, Washington DC, October 2 2012.

Program Concept Note, Moldova Development Policy Operation 1, P143283, October 18, 2013.

Program Concept Note, Moldova Development Policy Operation, P122226, Washington, DC,
June 23, 2011.




                                           38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33448R
                          27°E                                                       28°E                                                       29°E                                                           30°E




                             Dnes
                                  tr                                                 To Vinnytsya
                                                                                                               UKRA INE
                      To Chernivtsi


                                                                           Moghiliov-                        To Vinnytsya
                                              Ocnita                       Podolski
                       Briceni                                                                                                                                                                                   MOLDOVA

                                                               Donduseni
                          B



   To
Chernivtsi
                                               Edinet                                         Soroca
                                 e




                                                                            Drochia
                                       s



  48°N                                                                                                                              Camenca                                                                                               48°N
                                                     Rîscani
                                             s




                                                                                             Floresti                                          Nist
                                                                                                                                                      ru
                                                     a




                                          Costesti                                                                            Soldanesti
                                                                                                                                  ˘
                                                            r




                                                         Glodeni                    Balti                                                                  Rîbnita
                                                                                                                                        Rezina
                                                 Balatina
                                                                a




                                             Pr                                                     Sîngerei
                                                ut
                                                                                                                                                                                  To Voznesens'k
                                                                      r




                                                            Falesti
                                                             ˘
                                                                                                                 Telenesti                                                                    0        10      20      30     40 Kilometers
                                                                            a




                                                                                                                                 Chiperceni
                                                                                    b




                                                                                                                                            Orhei                                             0             10          20         30 Miles
                  RO MAN I A                                    Sculeni
                                                                                                                                               Dubasari
                                                                                                                                                  ˘                    TRANSNISTRIA
                                                                                          i




                                        To Pascani                                Mt. Balanesti Calarasi
                                                                                                 ˘˘                                              Criuleni
                                                                                   (430 m)
                                                                                            a




                                                                          Ungheni
                                                                                                                  Straseni
                                                                                                                     ˘                                                     Grigoriopol
                                                                                     Nisporeni                                                 ˘
                                                                                                                                             Stauceni                                                          To Zhmerynka


  47°N                                                                                                                                             ˘
                                                                                                                                             CHISINAU                                                                                     47°N


                                                                                                                  ˘
                                                                                                                 Lapusna           Ialoveni                 Anenii
                                                                                                                                                              Noi                        Tiraspol
                                                                                                                 Hîncesti                                              Bender
                                                                                                     Leuseni                                                         (Tighina)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Slobozia


                                                                                                                                                  ˘
                                                                                                                                                 Cainari
                                                                                                                                                                                 Causeni
                                                                                                                                                                                  ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To Odesa
                                                                                                                                                                     Plain
                                                                                                                             Cimislia
                                                                                                                                                       c                                            ˘N
                                                                                                                                                                                          Stefan-Voda       ist
                                                                      To Birlad                                                                  ea                                                             ru
                                                                                                                                            g




                                                                                                        Leova
                                                                                                                                        Bu




 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                       Comrat                         Basarabeasca
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any To Birlad
 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                      Cantemir
                      27°E                                                                                                    ˘ ˘
                                                                                                                             GAGAUZIA

                                                                                                                                Ceadîr-                              To Artsyz
                                                                                                                                                                                   UKRA INE
                                                                                                                                 Lunga
               MO LDO VA                                                          46°N                                                                                                                                                    46°N
                                                                                            Prut




                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                     Cahul                       Taraclia
                   AUTONOMOUS TERRITORIAL UNIT
                   CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                              ˘ ˘
                                                                                                                                             GAGAUZIA
                   RAIONS OR MUNICIPALITIES
                   CAPITALS*
                                                                                                        ˘
                                                                                                    Vulcanesti
                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
                   RIVERS
                   MAIN ROADS
                   RAILROADS                                                                                                    To Imayil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B l ack
                   AUTONOMOUS TERRITORIAL UNIT
                   BOUNDARIES                                                  To Bucharest                                                                                                                                   Sea
                                                                              and Constanta
                   RAIONS OR MUNICIPALITIES
                   BOUNDARIES
                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
             *Names of the raions or municipalities
             are identical to their capitals.                                      28°E                                                             29°E                                                              30°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAY 2007
