                                          FYRMACEDONIA:
                         Irrigation Rehabilitationand RestructuringProject
                              (Credit No. 3001-MK, LoanNo. 4241-MK)

        ProposedAmendment to the Development Credit Agreement andLoanAgreement


 1.       T h i s memorandum seeks the Executive Directors' approval to amend the Credit Agreement
 (3001MK) and Loan Agreement (4241MK) for the FYR Macedonia Irrigation Rehabilitation and
 Restructuring Project in order to utilize project savings o f US$650,000 equivalent to help finance
 severance payments to the staff of the project's eight Water Management Organizations (WMOs),
 which operate and manage the irrigation schemes.             The performance o f the project has been
 considered unsatisfactory since October 2002 due mainly to the failure of WMOs to maintain and
 operate the irrigation. Since then, extensive policy dialogue has been carried out, and consequently;
 the Government has started to undertake major institutional reform comprising the following two
 elements: (a) the liquidation of WMOs; and (b) establishment of new organizations, namely Water
 Economies (WEs), and Irrigation Water Communities (IWCs).               The WMOs were to be the
 implementing agencies of the project under the original project design. The Project's implementing
 agencies will be changed to the new W E s and IWCs.

 2.      These severance payments would enable the implementation o f the project's institutional
 reform for the irrigation sector, and constitute a part of the comprehensive support coordinated among
 various external donors to the sector. The proposed amendment i s consistent with an overall support
 program for FYR Macedonia's recovery from its recent intemal conflict and is expected to further
 strengthen the Bank's role in this program. It i s also consistent with the Bank's policy on financing
 severance payments.


 THELOANAND CREDIT

 3.      On November 4, 1997, the Board of Executive Directors approved a Credit of SDR 3.7
 million (US $5.38 million equivalent) and a Loan of DEM 13.5 million (converted to EUR 6.9
 million, equivalent to US $7.50) to the FYR Macedonia. The Development Credit Agreement and the
 Loan Agreement were signed on December 19, 1997; and the Irrigation Rehabilitation and
Restructuring Project became effective on April 29, 1998, with the objectives o f (a) enabling private
farmers to regain the potential of irrigated agriculture through the rehabilitation of three deteriorated
irrigation systems, and (b) enhancing the sustainability and efficiency of these schemes through the
introductiono f participatory irrigation management. The project's institutional development program
was to pilot the introduction of water users associations and provide limited support to the existing
WMOs, which were judged at that time to be competent and effective. The original closing date of the
Credit and Loan was September 30, 2004.


BACKGROUND

4.       Implementation o f the project has been unsatisfactory since October 2002, and both the
implementation progress (IF) and development objective (DO) indicators are currently rated
"unsatisfactory."   On the policy front, the position of the new water user associations (now called
irrigation water communities, or IWCs) was undermined by the politicized lowering o f water charges
duringthe election campaign duringAutumn 2002, while physical investments were hampered by the
domestic conflict and shortages in counterpart funds since the beginning o f 2001. The lack of
progress on the development objectives has been primarily due to the deteriorating situation of the
WMOs.

5.      While the project's pilot program to organize farmers into IWCs has been largely successful,
the performance of WMOs has continually deteriorated since the start o f project implementation.

  Despite the enactment o f a new Water Law' that enabled the restructuring o f WMOs through
  decentralization, successive Governments have been unable to implement the law and reform the
  irrigation sector as envisaged under the Project, partly because of the internal conflict o f 2001.
  Consequently, the WMOs, which manage the distribution of irrigation water, have fallen irretrievably
  into debt. Most significantly, they owe unpaid salaries, pension, and social security payments on
  which they have defaulted for several years, and, to a lesser extent, commercial debts. The situation is
  now so severe that the WMOs can no longer provide an acceptable level of service to farmers, visibly
  affecting the performance of the agriculture sector.        The farmers are so dissatisfied with the
  performance of the WMOs that their relationships with the WMOs are now irreparable.

  6.        The Bank discussed these issues with the Government inDecember 2002, and as a result, the
  Government decided to reform the irrigation sector, including: (a) the liquidation of WMOs and the
  establishment of WEs, which would take over responsibility for managing irrigation infrastructure;
  and (b) development of IWCs, which would take over managerial responsibility for distribution
 networks and small independent irrigation schemes. Processing of the restructuring has been pending
 the Government's actions. These changes are intended to ensure that farmers and water users will
 participate more directly in the management o f water resources compared to the previous system of
 Government dominated WMOs.

 7.        To date, the Government has taken visible and bold steps.          As a first step, the two
 fundamental laws-the              Law on IWCs, and the Law on WEs-were    adopted. The Law on IWCs
 enables the managerial transfer of distribution networks and small schemes. The Law on WEs
 enables the liquidation and restructuring of WMOs and the establishment of WEs. Following these
 two laws, the Government issued decrees to liquidate the eight WMOs within the project area, and
 establish the new WEs in early March 2004. In addition, the Government has contributed MKD 100
 million (US $2.1 million equivalent) to clear arrears to pension funds for staff at the eight WMOs to
 enable the envisaged retrenchment.

 8.        To supplement its own resources to implement the reform, the Government has recently
 requested the Bank's agreement to utilizing project savings towards severance payments for about 770
 staff and an enhanced technical assistance program that would support the IWCs and facilitate the
 initial operation of WEs. The estimated total cost o f the retrenchment would be US$924,000, of
 which the IBRD would finance up to US$650,000. The average retrenchment package per staff
 would amount to approximately US$1,200, which approximately two thirds FYR Macedonia's annual
gross national income (GNI) per capita. Consistent with Macedonian labor legislation, retrenchment
packages will be a maximum o f 8 months salary. The Government has also requested to discuss with
the Bank and the Dutch Government the possibilities to reallocate savings o f the Dutch Grant
associated with the project and administered by the Bank to finance salary arrears and working
capitals for the WEs.


THE PROPOSEDAMENDMENTS

9.        Restructuring the project requires no additional funds in order to provide the requested
support. Savings resulting from changes to the rehabilitation program would be sufficient to fund the
proposed retrenchment costs and technical assistance program. The objective of the restructuring
of the project i s to support the Government in further implementation of the reform, namely
liquidation of the WMOs, and capacity building for WEs and IWCs. It i s also proposed that some
original covenants be amended to reflect the on-going restructuring.

10.       The amendments to the legal agreements would introduce a new activity into the Institutional
Development part of the project, namely, support for WMO restructuring, including provision of
Severance Payments to the employees o f eight WMOs in Tikves, Bregalnica, and Polog. Also, a new


  Enactedat the inception of the Project inearly 1998.



                                                          2

 disbursement category would be introduced for retrenchment costs, and minor adjustments to
 allocations for other expenditure categories would be made.

 11.      Rationale for the Proposed Amendment. The proposed amendment i s consistent with the
 Operational Memorandum dated April 5, 2002 issued by James Adams, VP and Network Head,
 OPCS, regarding Financing Severance Pay in Public Sector Reform Operations. The envisaged
 reform would increase the efficiency and productivity of the irrigation sector by liquidating the
 inefficient WMOs and transferring managerial responsibility to water users (IWCs) and WEs. The
 retrenchment o f WMO staff i s essential to the successful implementation of this reform, and i s an
 integral part of the project, which includes (a) physical rehabilitation of the irrigation facilities, and
 (b) enhanced capacity buildingprograms for IWCs and WEs. The project implementationplan (PIP)
 has been revised and found to be adequate.

 12.      The liquidation of WMOs and the establishment of IWCs and WEs are absolutely critical to
 achieving the project objectives and, ultimately, to the sustainability of the irrigation sector and
 increased productivity in agriculture. The proposed reform would establish institutional arrangements
 with the right incentives for efficient and transparent management through the involvement o f water
 users and supervision by the Government. It would also reduce costs, empower farmers, and foster
 community cohesiveness, as proven in other countries inthe region.

 13.      In addition, the proposed reform is considered highly economic. According to an analysis
 carried out by international consultants, the WMOs currently have large numbers of redundant staff.
 After the WMO liquidation, a portion of the retrenched staff would be rehired as seasonal workers
 once irrigation management i s transferred to IWCs and WEs.         As the maximum severance payment
 stipulated under current law i s eight months, the estimated economic cash flow resulting from the
 retrenchment would be positive after the first year.

 14.      The sustainability of the proposed retrenchment i s very likely, since the new institutions, WEs
 and IWCs, would be operated with the full participation of water users. While some of the current
 WMO staff would be rehired by either WEs or IWCs, it is very likely that the WEs and IWCs would
 carefully select their new staff based on performance. There i s no risk o f overpayment as the amount
 of severance pay for public servants i s stipulated by law. The rehired workers in the new, much
 smaller organizations, would not receive severancepay.

 15.     The project team has received the Government's firm commitment to the reform. The Law
on Water Economies, which forms the basis for liquidating the WMOs and retrenching their staffs,
was enacted by the Parliament on December 31, 2003. Inaddition, the Parliament enacted the Law on
Irrigation Water Communities on July 31, 2003, which provides the basis for transferring
management o f the distribution networks and small irrigation schemes to the IWCs. Furthermore, the
Government confirmed in its Letter o f Development Policy that it intends to carry out the proposed
irrigation sector reform. It issued two decrees to start implementing the laws. The Government first
appropriated approximately MKD 100 million (USD 2.1 million equivalent) from 2003 budget to pay
the outstanding pension fund contribution for about 770 employees of the eight WMOs in order to
enable the retrenchment associated with the restructuring. An additional MKD 200,000 has also been
appropriated from the 2004 budget. The Government issued the first decree to liquidate eight WMOs
on March 8,2004, and then issued the second decree to establish WEs intwo o f the three project sites,
Bregalnica and Tikves. Considering the size and unique characteristics of the scheme (mixture o f
several independent schemes), it was concluded that the management of the third scheme in Polog
will be directly transferredto IWCs rather than establishing WEs.

16.      Political Economy Considerations The possible political impacts resulting from the
retrenchment are likely to be mitigatedby strong support from farmers, who are currently dissatisfied
with the performance o f the WMOs and are ready to take over irrigation management. In addition,
the resistance of W M O staff have been mitigated by the Government's clearance of WMOs' arrears to




                                                    3

 staff salaries and pension funds. The Government already started a public campaign on this issue
 rightafter its decision on liquidating eight WMOs.

 17.      Social ImDact. It i s expected that the social impacts of retrenchments would not be seriously
 adverse in this particular case. The discussion with the workers' union and representatives has
 already started, and the proposed liquidation of the WMOs has been generally accepted.          At this
 moment, all WMOs are suffering from serious delinquency problems, and arrears to pension funds
 have been mounting for a number o f years. All WMOs are effectively bankrupt and defunct. Some
 WMOs have not paid salaries since 1995. Under this project, it is aimed that the workers would fully
 receive their entitlement, including contributions to social security, severancepayment, salary arrears,
 and unemployment benefit.

 18.     Most o f the staff to be retrenched are actually farmers and will return to farming. The
retrenched workers, however, would be eligible for current government programs administered by the
Employment Bureau to support the reemployment for retrenchedpublic employees such as vocational
skills training and priority employment.

 19.     Although the D O and IP ratings for the project have been unsatisfactory for an extended
period, the Government has demonstrated its commitment to implementing sector reform and
improving project performance over the last nine months. given Government reforms, the IP rating
for the project has been recently upgraded to "S".        This was based on Government decisions to
liquidate eight WMOs, appoint a state liquidator, and establish downsized and streamlined (WEs) and
IWCs to replace the WMOs with structures that allow greater direct participation by water users. All
o f these measures will contribute toward the achievement of the project's development objectives.
The Government also intends to improve implementation progress, and has already committed to
allocating sufficient counterpart funding. The risks associated with the Government's commitment
would be substantially mitigated by the new covenants proposed above.

20.      Proiect Implementation. The Project Management Unit (PMU) continues to be responsible
for procurement, reporting and auditing for overall project implementation. The PMUhas been found
efficient, capable and satisfactory as the implementing agency.

21.      Proposed Closing Date. While the Government requested a two-year extension to implement
the restructured project and complete the envisaged sector reform, at this moment, the closing date
would be extended only by six months from the current September 2004 to March 31, 2005.               A
further extension would be considered based on the overall performance o f the project and sector
reform.




                                                    4

The World Bank                                             1818 H Street N.W.           (202) 458-0752
NTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT        Washington, D.C. 20433       Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
NTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                        U.S.A.                       Facsimile (202) 522-0005 INDEVAS

                                                                                May 20,2004

           H.E.NikolaPopovski
           Minister of Finance
            Of the Republic of Macedonia
           14Dame Gruev
           91000 Skopje

                          Re:      Irrigation Rehabilitation and RestructuringProject
                                   (Credit No. 3001MK)
                                   Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement

           Your Excellency:

                  IrefertotheDevelopmentCreditAgreement(IrrigationRehabilitationandRestructuring
          Project) dated December 3, 1997, between the Borrower and the International Development
          Association (the Association) (the Credit Agreement) and the Borrower's letter dated May 5, 2004
          requesting an amendment to the Credit Agreement.
                  IherebyconfirmtheAssociation'sagreementtoamendtheCreditAgreementasfollows:
                  1.      Subsection (i) Section 1.02 i s amended to read:
                                          of

                  "(i)    "Participating WMOs" means the Tikvesko Pole Kavadarci WMO (as defined
          hereinafter), Bregalnica Kocani WMO, Izvori Gostivar WMO and Polog Tetovo W M O (as defined
          hereinafter) or any succeeding WE (as defined hereinafter) or other successors thereto as may be
          agreed upon by the Association;".
                  2.      Subsection (u) of Section 1.02 i s amended to read:

                  "(u)    "WUA" means a water user's association to be established pursuant to the Water
          Law or any IWC (as definedhereinafter);".
                  3.      The following new subsections (w) and (x) are added at the end of Section 1.02:

                  "(w)    "IWC" means an Irrigation Water Community established under the Law of the
          Borrower On IrrigationWater Communities dated July 31, 2003;

                   (x)    "WE' means a Water Economy established under the Law of the Borrower On
          Water Economies dated December 31,2003;".
                  4.      A new ClosingDate, namely, March 31, 2005, has been established for the purposes
          of Section 2.03.
                  5.      Section 4.03 i s amended to read as follows:
                  "Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take, and shall cause each Participating WMO to take, in
          respect of its irrigation scheme, all necessary measures to ensure that irrigation distribution
          networks where the management responsibilities have been transferred from WEs to IWCs shall
          cover not less than 20 percent of the total area of these Participating WMOs' irrigation distribution
          networks by September 30,2004, and not less than 50 percent by March 31, 2005.".

         6.      The following new subsections (i) (j)are added at the end of Section 6.01:
                                                     and

         "(i)    The Law of the Borrower On Irrigation Water Communities dated July 31, 2003,
 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
 adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.

         (j)     The Law of the Borrower On Water Economies dated December 31,2003, shall have
 been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
 the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.".
        7.       Subsection (b) of Section 6.02 i s amended to read as follows:

        "(b)     any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) (subject to the proviso thereto),
 (i) (j)ofSection6.01ofthisAgreementshalloccur;and".
    or
         8.      The table inparagraph 1of Schedule 1i s modified and set forth as follows:
                       Amount of the         Amount of the
                     Credit Allocated       Loan Allocated                % of
                       (Expressed in         (Expressed in           Expenditures
  Category           SDR Equivalent)              Euro)             to be Financed

(1) Civil Works         3,070,000           6,028,000.00           75%
(2) Goods                  150,000            184,000.00           100% of foreign
                                                                   expenditures,
                                                                   100% of local
                                                                   expenditures
                                                                   (ex-factory cost)
                                                                   and 85% of local
                                                                   expenditures
                                                                  for other items
                                                                  procured locally
(3) Vehicles               110,000                      0          100% of foreign
                                                                  expenditures,
                                                                   100% of local
                                                                  expenditures
                                                                  (ex-factory cost)
                                                                  and 85% of local
                                                                  expenditures
                                                                  for other items
                                                                  procured locally
(4) Severance payments                       540,000.00            100%
    underPart B.5
    of the Project
(5) Unallocated           370,000            150,440.40


   TOTAL                3.700.000          6.902.440.40

        9.     A new subparagraph (c) is addedinparagraph 2 of Schedule 1to read as follows:

               "(c)   the term "Severance Payments" means the payments, including benefits and
on-going commitments, to be made under Part B.5 of the Project to employees of eight WMOs in
Tikves, Bregalnica and Polog to be liquidated in accordance with the Law of the Borrower On
Water Economies dated December 31,2003 .".
        10.    Part B.3 of Schedule 2 i s deleted and Parts B.4 and B.5 are renumbered as PartsB.3
and B.4 respectively.
        11.    InPart B.3 of Schedule 2 the words "to Bregalnica Kocani WMO" are replacedwith
the words "WEs inBregalnica Irrigation Scheme"
        12.    A new Part B.5 is addedinSchedule 2 to read as follows:

        "(5)   Support for WMOs restructuring, including provision of Severance Payments to
employees of eight WMOs in Tikves, Bregalnica and Polog to be liquidated in accordance with the
Law of the Borrower On Water Economies dated December 31,2003.".
        13.    Subparagraph (a) of paragraph 1of Schedule 5 i s amended to read:

       "(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (l),  (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1of Schedule 1to this Agreement;".


       Please confirm your agreement on behalf of the Borrower with the above amendments by
signing, dating and returning to us one of the original copies of this Amendment Letter. This
Amendment Letter shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall
have been furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of the new Implementation
Agreement between MAFWE and W E s in Bregalnica and Tikves Irrigation Schemes have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary actions. The Amendment Letter shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower a notice of its
acceptance of the evidence requiredby this paragraph.

                                             Sincerely,

                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION




                                     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                            CountryDirector andRegional Coordinator
                                      for South EastEurope
                                  Europe andCentral Asia Region
AGREED:
BORROWER
By:

Date:

cc     Mr.AdMelkert, ExecutiveDirector, WorldBank


The World Bank                                               1818 H Street N.W.            (202) 458-0752
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT        Washington, D.C. 20433        Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                        U.S.A.                        Facsimile (202) 522-0005
INDEVAS

                                                                                  May 20,2004


            H.E.NikolaPopovski
            Minister of Finance
              of the Republic of Macedonia
             14Dame Gruev
            91000 Skopje


                             Re:     IrrigationRehabilitationandRestructuringProject
                                     (LoanNo. 4241MK)
                                     Amendment to the LoanAgreement

            Your Excellency:

                    We refer to the Loan Agreement (Irrigation Rehabilitation and Restructuring
            Project) dated December 3, 1997, between the Borrower and the International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) (the Loan Agreement) and the Borrower's
            letter dated May 5, 2004 requesting an amendment to the Loan Agreement.

                    We hereby confirm the Bank's agreement to amend the Loan Agreement as
           follows:
                    1.      Subsection (b) of Section 2.02 i s amended to read:

                    "(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
           Euro a special deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
           into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
           provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.".
                    2.      A new ClosingDate, namely, March 31, 2005, has been established for the
           purposes of Section 2.03.
                    3.      Subparagraph (a) of paragraph 1of Schedule 2 i s amended to read:

                    "(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (l),      (2), (3) and (4) set
           forth inthe table inparagraph 1of Schedule 1to the Development Credit Agreement;".
                    4.      Subparagraph (c) of paragraph 1of Schedule 2 i s amended to read:

                    "(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to Euro
           512,000.".

        Please confirm your agreement on behalf of the Borrower with the above
 amendments by signing, dating and returning to us one of the original copies of this
 Amendment Letter. This Amendment Letter shall not become effective until evidence
 satisfactory to the Bank shall have been furnished to the Bank that the execution and
 delivery of the new Implementation Agreement between MAFWE and W E s in
 Bregalnica and Tikves Irrigation Schemes have been duly authorized or ratified by all
 necessary actions. The Amendment Letter shall come into force and effect on the date
 upon which the Bank dispatches to the Borrower a notice of its acceptance of the
 evidence requiredby this paragraph.




                                       Sincerely,

     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT




                                Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                       Country Director andRegional Coordinator
                                 for SouthEastEurope
                            Europe and Central Asia Region


AGREED:
BORROWER

B y:


Date:




cc     Mi-.Ad Melkert, ExecutiveDirector, World Bank

