Report No. PIC2886
Project Name                     Macedonia-Irrigation Restructuring (@+) 
and Rehabilitation Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       MKPE38399
Borrower                         Government of FYR of Macedonia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Water Management
Mr. Voislav Popov, Director Water Management,
Leninova Street 2, 9100 Skopje, FYRM
Phone: 389-91-111792
Fax: 389-91-112035 or    389-91-211997
Date PID Prepared                Revised May 1, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         May 1997
Projected Board Date             September 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      The economy of FYR of Macedonia depends to a significant
extent on agriculture, which contributes about 20t of GDP and
employs more than 15t of the workforce in the socially-owned
sector. About 45t of the population live in rural areas. Of the
country's surface area of 2.57 million ha, only about 662,000 ha
are arable of which about 360,000 400,000 ha are considered
suitable for irrigation. To date, 124,000 ha have been developed
for irrigation, of which between 45,000 ha and 70,000 ha have
actually been irrigated in recent years. Of the total irrigation
command area, 49t belongs to the social sector and the rest to
private owners. About half of the irrigated area is equipped for
sprinkler irrigation and the remainder relies on surface methods.
2.      The major irrigation systems are managed by local Water
Management Organizations (WMOs), which are largely autonomous,
socially-owned enterprises and are intended to be replaced by a new
organizational structure. Currently, there exist 22 WMOs which
administer 77T of the total command area. The WMOs are essentially
self-financing, deriving most of their income from water charges
levied on water users. The chief disadvantage of the WMOs is that
they are largely controlled by workers rather than the water users.
Irrigation infrastructure is relatively old and the system has
deteriorated due to aging, lack of maintenance and also to the poor
quality of initial design. Water conveyance and operational
efficiency are adversely affected as a result. There is need of
rehabilitation and modernization of the system. While the existing
Water Law of 1981 needs some amendments to promote efficient
irrigation management and investment with involvement of the
private sector, the current draft of a new Water Law contains flaws



and undesirable provisions.
Objectives
3.      Project objectives are to: (a) increase production of
irrigated agriculture within economic limits and contribute to
poverty alleviation by giving preference to irrigable smallholder
land; and (b) privatize irrigation management and promote efficient
operation and maintenance of irrigation systems to contribute to:
(i) keeping the irrigation water charges within reasonable limits;
and (ii) maintaining irrigation systems more satisfactorily to
ensure better and equitable distribution of water, eliminate or
minimize the need for rehabilitation and promote sustainable use of
irrigation systems.
Description
4.      The project would: (a) rehabilitate and improve irrigation
schemes to be selected on the basis of economic feasibility and
users commitment for cost sharing; (b) assist the government with
the following institutional improvements: (i) strengthening
irrigation and water resources planning, coordination and
monitoring capability; and (ii) privatizing irrigation management
by promoting establishment of WUOs and transferring to them the
responsibility for management of irrigation systems and making
decisions on required rehabilitation and improvement and enforcing
commitments for sharing a reasonable part of the investment cost.
Financing
5.      Of the total estimated project cost of US$30 M, US$12.5 M
would be provided by IBRD and IDA. A co-financier has been
identified to finance US$10 million.
Implementation
6.      Adequate progress on the institutional components of the
project is a prerequisite to implementation of project works. The
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management (MAFWM)
would have the responsibility for completing the institutional
components and initial planning of the project works in
consultation with farmers. The institutional strengthening would
require some technical assistance, legislative changes and
acquiring required equipment.
Sustainability
7.      The project concept is based on promoting features that
strongly contribute to sustainable management and performance of
irrigation schemes. These features include self-financing,
autonomy, taking management decisions by or with participation of
users and users' commitment to bear the O&M cost and a reasonable
part of the investment cost.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
- 2 -



8. Experience has shown that thorough preparation, flexible design
and a suitable project management organization are crucial success
criteria. Past problems related especially to procurement,
implementation of training and marketing components and monitoring
of project activities. The organization of irrigation on
smallholder plots posed a challenge in past irrigation projects.
Evaluations found that individual farmers responded well to project
opportunities. Experience in other countries has shown that the
transfer of irrigation systems management responsibility to users
has brought about a decrease in government expenditures and
resulted in increased farm incomes and better irrigation
performance.
Environmental Aspects
9. The proposed project has been placed in environmental screening
category B. Project-related activities would have a beneficial
impact through increasing the efficiency of use of scarce water
resources and adoption of better operational practices.
Program Objective Categories
10. The project is not in the program of targeted interventions.
Contact Point:           Toru Konishi, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-2351
Fax No.:   (202) 477-0816
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 8, 1997.
- 3 -



Annex
Environmental impact
The Project would have a positive environmental impact, as it would
increase the efficiency of use of irrigation water, resulting in
the substantial reduction in water loss and run-off of fertilizer
and pesticides. The overall quality of the irrigation water in the
proposed Project area is good in terms of total dissolved matter,
acidity and dissolved oxygen levels. As algae problems are
encountered in summer time in several canals, a technical study
would be undertaken under the Project to explore a solution to this
problem.
A possible negative impact could be due to the increase in the use
of fertilizer and chemicals from the restoration of higher level of
crop production from the current low level; howeever, the pollution
is not expected to be significant, as more scientific and economic
farming practices with lower inputs are anticipated. No major
pollution due to the irrigated agriculture was reported in the past.
- 4 -



