Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17013 MK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
October 1, 1997
Agriculture and Regional Development Operations
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
As of July 21, 1997
Currency Unit   =    Denar (Mdenar)
US$1    =    55.53
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1994          1995            1996         1997 (February)      1997 (July)
43.3          38.1            40.1              44.0               55.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AK(s)  -  Agro-Kombinat(s)
DWE   -  Department of Water Economy, Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry, and Water Economy
ERR   -  Economic Rate of Return
EU   -  European Union
FAO   -  Food and Agriculture Organization
FRY   -  Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP  -  Gross National Product
GSP  -  Gross Sectoral Product
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   -  International Development Association
MAFWE   -  Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Water Economy
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
NEAP  -  National Environmental Action Plan
O&M   -  Operation and Maintenance
PA   -  Privatization Agency
PFSP  -  Private Farmer Support Project
PHRD   -  Policy and Human Resource Development
PMT   -  Project Management Team
PWME   -  Public Water Management Enterprise
SA   -  Special Account
SAL/C   -  Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit
SAR   -  Staff Appraisal Report
TA   -  Technical Assistance
WMO(s)  -  Water Management Organization(s)
WUA(s)  -  Water User Association(s)
WTO   -  World Trade Organization
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECA
Director: Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
Sector Leader: Joseph Goldberg, ECSRE
Task Team Leader: Toru Konishi



THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Contents
1. AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND BANK STRATEGY .................................................                                                                        I
A. INTRODUCTION ................................................                                                                                                 I
B. AGRiCULTURE SECTOR OVERVIEW ................................................                                                                                  I
C. AGRICULTURE POLICY REFORM ................................................                                                                                    2
D. WORLD BANK STRATEGY AND RATIONAL FOR INVOLVEMENT .................................................                                                           4
E. BANK LENDING EXPERIENCE ................................................                                                                                      5
2. THE IRRIGATION SECTOR ................................................                                                                                        6
A. WATER RESOURCES .................................................                                                                                             6
B. IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT .................................................                                                                         6
C. THE INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK ................................................                                                                        7
D. WATER RESOURCE PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT ................................................                                                                       8
E. FARMERS ORGANIZATIONS AND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT .................................................                                                          9
F. FINANCIAL ISSUES ................................................                                                                                             9
G. SECTOR STRATEGY AND THE PROPOSED NEW  WATER LAW  ..................................................                                                          10
H. ENVIRONMENTAL SECTOR ISSUES ................................................ .                                                                               11
3. THE PROJECT ................................................                                                                                                11
A. BACKGROUND ..................................................11
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ................................................. 12
C. PROJECT AREA ................................................                                                                                               13
D. MAIN COMPONENTS AND DETAILED FEATURES ................................................                                                                      15
E. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ................................................                                                                                    20
F. PROJECT COST .........................20
G. FINANCING PLAN ................................................                                                                                             21
H'. PROCUREMENT ................................................                                                                                               22
1. DISBURSEMENT ................................................                                                                                               22
J. HISTORY OF PROJECT PREPARATION ................................................                                                                              24
K. PARTICIPATION ................................................                                                                                              24
L. ENVIRONMENT ................................................                                                                                                25
M. INTERNATIONAL WATERWAYS ................................................                       .                                                            26
N. DAM SAFETY ................................................                                                                                                  26
0. COST RECOVERY ..................................................                                                                                            27
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................................                                                                                    28
A. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ................................................                                                                                 28
B. PROJECT PHASING .................................................                                                                                           29
C. SUPERVISION, MONITORING, AND REPORTING ................................................                                                                      30
D. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS ................................................                                                                                         30
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................................                                                                                 31
A. BENEFITS ..................................................31
B. RISKS ..................................................32
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................................................                                                                     35



ANNEXES
A  -  Detailed Information on Irrigation Schemes
B  -  Project Implementation Plan
C  -  Overview of Institutional and Legal Framework
D  -  Economic and Financial Analysis
E  -  Disbursement Profile
F  -  Supervision Mission Plan
Table 3.1 Project Cost Summary
Table 3.2 Financing Plan
Table 3.3 Disbursement Categories
Table 3.4 Proposed Cost Recovery Rate
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 28828      Location of Irrigation Schemes
IBRD No. 28829     Tikves Irrigation Scheme
IBRD No. 28830     Bregalnica Irrigation Scheme
IBRD No. 28831     Polog Irrigation Scheme



FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Loan / Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                  The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Guarantor:                Not applicable
Implementing Agency:      The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Water Economy
Beneficiary:              Private farmers, Water Management Organizations, and Agro-Kombinats
Poverty:                  Not applicable
Amount:                    Loan of DM 13.5 million (US$7.5 million equivalent)
Credit of SDR 3.7 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Loan: 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard interest rate for
LIBOR-based Deutche mark loans
Credit: IDA standard terms with 35 years' maturity including 10 years of
grace.
Commitment Fee/Service    Loan: 0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
Charge:                    signing, less any waiver.
Credit: 0.00% - 0.50% (set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA)
on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver.
Onlending Terms:          Not applicable
Financing Plan:            See Table 3.2
Net Present Value:         US$37.8 million at discount rate of 12 percent
Economic Rate of Return:   29 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 17013 MK
Map:                      IBRD 28828 - 28831
Project ID Number:         MK-PE -38399
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECA
Director: Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
Sector Leader: Joseph Goldberg, ECSRE
Responsible Staff: This report is based on an appraisal mission which visited the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia in May 1997. The report was prepared by Toru Konishi (Economist, Task
Manager), Jagdish Srivastava (Irrigation Engineer), Neal Mountstephens (Irrigation
Specialist, Consultant), Naushaud Khan (Procurement Officer), Tateo Morita (Project
Analyst, Consultant), Benoist Veillerette (Agriculture Economist, FAO/CP) and Ms. Kitty
Bentvelsen (Sociologist). Roy Southworth (Principal Economist), and Jean-Pierre Villaret
(Irrigation Engineer) are peer reviewers. Eloisa Lu assisted with report assembly and
editing.






FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND BANK STRATEGY
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Since its independence in 1991, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has been faced with
major difficulties in its transition to nationhood and market economy. Severe hardship has arisen from
large external financial obligations (37 percent of GDP in 1994), hyperinflation (1,935 percent in 1992),
and loss of trade and trade routes due to the outburst of hostilities in the region. As a result, the economy
deteriorated; and real GDP fell nearly 40 percent between 1990 and 1995. The increase in the
unemployment rate and the decline in the real wage (about 50 percent between 1990 and 1995) resulted
in severe erosion of real consumption and living standards.
1.2    Despite these difficulties, the agriculture sector has been relatively more buoyant than the rest of
the economy. The output of the agriculture sector is showing signs of recovery, with increase in output
of about 8 percent in 1994 and 3 percent in 1995. The sector accounts for about 15 percent of
employment and contributes about 18 percent to GDP. About half of the population live in the rural
areas and their livelihood is closely linked to agriculture.
1.3    The Government initiated a major economic stabilization program in 1994, including several
measures for the agriculture sector such as price liberalization and privatization of the socially owned
agro-kombinats (AKs). These measures would accelerate the growth of the sector and to maximize the
production at competitive prices for export of agriculture products in re-emerging opportunities in
neighboring countries. The restoration of the deteriorated physical infrastructure, particularly irrigation
systems, has also been given a high priority, and the Government requested World Bank assistance to
finance a project for the rehabilitation of deteriorated irrigation schemes. The proposed irrigation project
would rehabilitate the three largest irrigation systems with highest priority, and support actions to
increase irrigation management efficiency and sustainability such as (a) pilot initiatives for participatory
irrigation management; and (b) restructuring of the concerned water management organizations
(WMOs). The proposed project would be the fourth Bank-financed investment project in the country
and the second in the agriculture sector, following the Private Farmers Support Project (PFSP).
B. AGRICULTURE SECTOR OVERVIEW
1.4    A landlocked country of about 2.60 million hectares with population of about 2.0 million, the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has an arable area of 0.66 million hectares, which is utilized to
an extent of about 35 percent for growing cereals (wheat, barley, maize, and rice), 9 percent for
vegetables, 8 percent for vineyards, 7 percent for orchards, and 5 percent for fodder crops; the rest being
mainly used as pasture land. These pastures and the neighboring grazing grounds, which cover 0.64



- 2 -
million hectares of the non-arable area, support the important livestock subsector. While there was a
small decline in poultry production due partly to termination of subsidies in poultry feed, the livestock
industry has been generally stable in spite of the shocks to the agriculture sector, and the potential for
further growth is good. The demand for livestock products, especially lamb meat, is strong outside the
country and has the potential for increased export. Also Macedonian wine, competitively priced with
reasonable quality, is reported to have already begun to penetrate the EU market. In addition, off-season
vegetables which can be produced under the favorable climate, would become important export items if
the market and logistics in neighboring countries are re-established.
1.5    The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia can be categorized into three zones according to
climate: (a) modified Mediterranean suited for vines, horticulture, and early vegetables; (b) modified
continental best suited for cereals and industrial crops; and (c) mountainous suited for livestock. Annual
precipitation ranges from 500 mm to 1,000 mm. However, high-crop yields and maximization of
production is possible only with irrigation. The average growing period (May to September) rainfall of
about 190 mm is much lower than the average evapotranspiration requirement (about 640 mm) of crops.
The soils are fertile; about two-thirds of the arable lands being vertisols and terra rossas. Salinity is not
an issue.
1.6    The agricultural sector of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has already a substantial
private sector presence. The private farming sector, consisting of 177,000 small farms, accounts for
about 70 percent of the arable land and two thirds of the value of agricultural output. Many of these
farmers are part-timers with small holdings: the average plot of an individual farmer is 2.6 hectares in
several parcels, and about half of the farming families have less than 1 hectare. They produce diversified
crops for subsistence and sale, and forage crops for supporting a mix of livestock. Many of the livestock
farmers have access to the communal summer grazing pastures in adjacent hills and mountains. The
private farmers have reasonable mechanization (one tractor per 9.7 hectare) but the farming equipment is
generally obsolete and may need replacement.
1.7    Agro-Kombinats (AKs) still play an important role in the agricultural sector. There are about
210 AKs throughout the country owning about 200,000 hectares of arable land (or 30 percent of the total
arable land). They are often major employers in rural areas, monopolistic distributors for the farm input
(fertilizers) and monopolistic purchasers of private farmner output.  In the absence of alternative
independent market channels, private farmers have generally been forced to supply their produce to AKs,
often in return for inputs. Median farn size of AKs is about 250 hectares, about 100 times the average
size of private farms. The average farm size of the 12 largest AKs is more than 2,500 hectares with
about 1,000 employees, having several business units covering primary production to retail, vertically
connected. Nevertheless, the incentives and organizational problems associated with social ownership
have led to the poor performance.
C. AGRICULTURE POLICY REFORM
1.8    The Government is conscious of the need for policy reform in the agriculture sector to achieve
the objectives of sector growth and competitiveness of its products, and is committed to: (a) reducing
interventions in output and input prices; and (b) reorienting the functions of the Government away from
intervention and towards policy support for the private sector. In this context, the Government has



-3 -
embarked on actions on the following fronts: (a) price liberalization; (b) agricultural trade policy reform;
(c) privatization of agro-kombinats; (d) land reform; and (e) water resource management strengthening.
1.9    Price Liberalization: US$50 million was spent on agriculture subsidies in 1995, of which
US$24 million was for price subsidy, US$7 million for seed, and US$19 million for interest and lending
rate on credit. However, as a key step for ushering in a market economy, the Government started
phasing out the direct budget support for market interventions such as: subsidized loans, rebates on the
purchase of inputs, price support and export subsidies. The guaranteed price for wheat in 1996 was kept
at the same level as in 1995. The price support for sugarbeet and sunflower is to be abolished in 1997.
The price of bread is currently fixed, but the Government would shortly introduce a price cap and then
liberalize it when the Anti-Monopoly Law is ratified by the Parliament by the end of 1997. The
Government has already terminated credit rebates and would also terminate seed rebates in 1997. The
market intervention role of Agricultural Strategic Reserve Stocks would be gradually phased out,
confining its activities to strategic stocks only. Agriculture subsidies have already declined from 23
percent of agricultural Gross Sector Product (GSP) in 1993 to 6 percent in 1995.
1.10   Agricultural Trade Policy Reform: To participate in the World Trade Organization (WTO),
and ultimately join the EU, the Government has started trade policy reform by lowering custom tariffs,
limiting custom exemptions, rationalizing import tax, dismantling quotas, and creating export incentives
and trade institutions. The Government has converted imports previously subject to the special levies
(e.g., wheat, flour, sugar, milk, etc.) to a schedule of tariff plus surcharge subject to a ceiling. The level
of the tariffs is generally low. The Government is preparing a program for further liberalization of tariffs
and/or surcharges on these items for implementation in stages under the SAL/C.
1.11   Privatization of Agro-Kombinats:  The Government has already started the process of
privatizing AKs. The legal basis, institutional capacity, and technical expertise are already in place. The
Agriculture Privatization Law, which was ratified by the Parliament in April 1996, sets out the
privatization procedures.  The Government issued a guideline to implement the law, and  the
Privatization Agency (PA) will oversee the process. The PA has already issued the necessary guidelines
for preparing restructuring plans, and the Law requires AKs to prepare their own privatization plan
within 6 months for small and medium enterprises and within 12 months for the large ones. A beginning
has already been made under the Special Restructuring Program, wherein three large AKs have been
divided into 27 business units now slated for privatization. The Government is preparing clear policy
announcements for rating the enterprises to avoid over-valuation. By fall 1997, privatization of at least
170 AKs is anticipated to be completed.
1.12   Land Reform: The land reform is essentially linked to the privatization of the state lands which
were earlier taken over during the nationalization process, and which are farmed by the AKs. While AKs
would be granted five years duration of land lease free of charge under the Agriculture Privatization
Law, the Government decided to privatize about 15 percent of AKs' lands as early as possible, on
auction basis or on claims supported by proofs of previous ownership. The Denationalization Law,
which would be the forerunner for the development of land markets, is expected to be adopted by the
Parliament by December 31, 1997. The proposed Law on Land Use would also be adopted by the
Parliament in fall 1997, and will permit short-term leasing (not to exceed 5 years) of state lands to
privatized AKs, until full privatization of these lands. The State Cadastral Office would be strengthened



- 4 -
to provide the farmers with land ownership titles. Private farmers would then be assured of being able to
use their land as collateral for obtaining credit.
1.13   Water Resource Management: The Government has also started the restructuring of water
resources management. As a first step, the Government is preparing a new Water Law replacing the
current Water Law. This amendment would provide the legal base to allow the irrigation beneficiaries to
participate in operation and maintenance (O&M) of their systems; introduction of water charges
including volumetric pricing to economize water use, and restructuring of the water management
organizations (WMOs) currently responsible for O&M but unable to provide an efficient service. A
Water Fund would be established under the amendment, to finance activities with public interest such as
river protection (refer para. 2.17).
D. WORLD BANK STRATEGY AND RATIONAL FOR INVOLVEMENT
1.14   The Government's current strategies are founded on the following key pillars including: (a)
macro economic stabilization; (b) encouraging private sector development through privatization and
improving the business environment; (c) banking sector reform; (d) building private capabilities to
increase agricultural production; (e) modernization of physical infrastructure; (f) development of an
effective social safety net; and (g) improvement of environmental management.
1.15   The Government strategy has been supported by the Bank Group through a policy dialogue and a
lending program. The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 1473.9-MK, dated April
19, 1995) which was presented to the Board on May 16, 1995, stipulates the following strategies for
investment lending: (a) assuring adequate infrastructure for economic growth; (b) promoting post-
privatization restructuring and a supply response; (c) facilitating and supporting the structural reform and
transformation to a market economy; (d) contributing to financing balance-of-payments requirements; (e)
support for critical adjustment and development efforts; and (f) helping to mobilize resources from both
official and private sources. The proposed project was identified in the CAS and fully supports the Bank
Group's overall strategy for the country, which recognizes that agriculture has significant growth
potential and that rehabilitation of deteriorated irrigation systems is a key to revitalizing the sector.
1.16   The Bank Group's strategy for the agriculture sector reflects the country specific experiences
gained since the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia joined the Bank Group. As the Country
Assistance Strategy points out, the Bank Group's overall strategy for agriculture is to focus on promotion
of transition to a market-based economy. Specific elements of strategies would include: (a) the reduction
of subsidies; (b) privatization of agro-kombinats; (c) shifting more responsibilities for support services to
the private sector; and (d) rehabilitation of deteriorated physical infrastructure. The Government
confirmred its agreement to proceed with the implementation of these strategies, particularly with respect
to liberalizing trade regimes, reforming agricultural price policy and privatizing AKs under proposed
SAL/C. Furthermore, the ongoing Private Farmer Support Project (PFSP) is assisting in strengthening
the provision of technology and information to private farmers. Finally, DM 4 million (about US$2.7
million) has been designated for credits to either individual private farmers or their groups under the
Private Sector Development Project.



E. BANK LENDING EXPERIENCE
1.17   The Government has requested the Bank's involvement in the Project, as it considers the Bank
to be well suited to provide assistance in developing a policy framework for irrigation management
leading to long-term sustainability and supporting viable investment. The Bank has a wide-range of
experience in the development of irrigated agricultural systems, both throughout the world and within the
region, with comparable small holder farm settings (e.g., Turkey, Slovenia, and Albania) and has been
playing a leading role in advocating public sector reform and promoting user participation in irrigation
management. Key government counterparts participated in EDI's international seminar on participatory
irrigation management and learned of the Bank's extensive experience in the sector.
1.18   Lessons learned from the Bank Group's earlier funding of projects in the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia include (a) demonstrated willingness and ability of Macedonian private farmers
to adopt new technology and farming systems, provided these are beneficial and economically viable;
but (b) the lack of attention to issues related to a sound policy framework for agricultural investment; and
(c) inadequate project implementation capacity limiting the benefits obtained from the projects. The
Bank's first investment project in the agriculture sector for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
Private Farmer Support Project, started in September 1996, and is progressing satisfactorily.
1.19   Bank experience with irrigation projects indicates that the following are most critical for the
success of the project: (a) user participation in all the phases of the project from planning of
rehabilitation to operation and maintenance after completion of works; (b) full recovery of the operation
and maintenance costs of irrigation systems from the beneficiaries, preferably through transfer of
managerial responsibilities to autonomous beneficiary groups; and (c) clear definition of the long-term
mandate of the public sector, possibly confined to larger infrastructures such as primary networks, dams
and main canals.
1.20   The lessons learned from past experience have been duly incorporated into the design of the
proposed Project. The Government has, in the preparatory phase, organized the beneficiary groups to
provide them with information on project formulation and its projected benefits and obtain agreement to
their contributions.  The Government is also seriously committed to establishing Water Users
Associations (WUAs) and would provide training for technical and administrative capacity to operate
and maintain the system to achieve high water-use efficiency. The Project would also support the
restructuring water management through consolidation of water management organizations (WMOs) into
the public water enterprises (paras. 2.7, 2.20). All of these initiatives would be implemented as pilot
programs during the first phase of the Project to accumulate the experience and increase implementation
capacity before full-scale application across the Project Area during the second phase of the Project.



- 6 -
2. THE IRRIGATION SECTOR
A. WATER RESOURCES
2.1    Country's River Basins. The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is divided into three
main catchments: (a) the Vardar catchment covering 80 percent of the country's geographical area and
accounting for about 5,000 million m3 (72 percent) of the average annual runoff; (b) the Cmi Drim
catchment, covering 13 percent of the country's geographical area and accounting for 1,700 million m3
(23 percent) of the average annual runoff; and (c) the Strumica catchment covering 7 percent of the
country's geographical area and accounting for 350 million m (5 percent) of the average annual runoff.
Up to the border with Greece, the Vardar catchment lies mostly (91 percent) within the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia with small portions in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) and Greece (5
and 4 percent respectively); the Vardar thereafter flows through Greece to the Aegean Sea as the River
Axios. The catchment of the River Cmi Drim in the southwest corner of the country includes the Lakes
Ohrid (use shared with Albania) and Prespa (use shared with Greece and Albania), and is substantially
(76 percent) within the country with minor portions (17 and 7 percent respectively) in Albania and
Greece, the Cmi Drim thereafter flows through Albania as the River Drini to the Adriatic. The River
Strumica, which occupies the southwest corner of the country and includes the Dojran lake (use shared
with Greece), originates wholly within the country, but after the border flows through Greece to the
Aegean Sea.
2.2   The runoff in the three basins varies considerably from year to year; in the dry years being about
4,800 million m3, compared to an overall average of about 6,600 million m3 on average. The seasonal
fluctuation between the dry summer and other seasons is also considerable. The development of water
resources for hydropower generation and irrigation, therefore, requires the construction of storage dams.
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has so far developed 18 major dams and about 100 smaller
dams, providing a total live storage of about 1,400 million m3, which provide sufficient water throughout
the year. The quality of the water is generally good. The use of ground water is limited to municipal and
industrial use.
B. IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE DEVELOPMENT
2.3    Need for Irrigation in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. In the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, irrigation is considered essential on three counts: (a) to minimize climatic risks
affecting agriculture production; (b) to ensure quality of products essential to commercial agriculture;
and (c) to provide adequate incomes and living standards in the rural areas. There is generally a moisture
deficit during the cropping period of about 480 mm. Most of the crops respond well to irrigation: winter
cereals long-term average yields could be increased by 90 percent from 2.5 to 4.8 tlhectare under
irrigation; the yield of all perennial, industrial and forage crops could increase by 150 to 300 percent.
Irrigation is essential for many vegetables. In addition, for many high value fruits and vegetables, such
as tomatoes, peppers, and table grapes suitable for export, irrigation is a pre-requisite to stabilize
production and ensure minimum export quality. There is no major need for drainage due to the hilly
topography and light-textured soils but irrigation systems incorporate surface drainage in a few cases.



2.4    Construction of Irrigation Schemes. The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia gave
priority to the development of irrigation in the territory of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The construction of irrigation schemes commenced in 1945; 19,000 hectares developed in the period
1945/58; 78,000 hectares in 1958/75; and 67,000 hectares in 1975/93. By 1994, some 94 schemes were
completed, covering 164,000 hectares. Most of these schemes are gravity-pressurized sprinkler systems.
Actual irrigated area, however, never achieved this level, partly because of suspended construction, and
equipment and water shortages, peaking at around 76,000 hectares by 1990. Major irrigated crops are
vegetables (18 percent), cereals (35 percent), orchards (8 percent), vineyards (14 percent), potatoes (5
percent), rice (3 percent), and fodder (8 percent). Others are potatoes, rice, industrial crops and pasture.
Irrigated areas have substantially declined from early 1990 due to deterioration of the irrigation systems
and loss of agricultural markets due to the outbreak of hostilities in the early 1990s. Total irrigated area
was about 46,000 hectares in 1996, at 60 percent of the 1990 level.
2.5   Physical Condition of Irrigation Systems. While a few irrigation schemes constructed in the
1980s (e.g., Strumica) are in good condition and operating effectively, older systems completed in the
1970s or earlier (e.g., Tikves, Bregalnica), have deteriorated considerably due primarily to deferred
maintenance (specially during early 1990s), and poor quality of initial design and construction. The
concrete lining of the main canals are damaged resulting in higher seepage losses and lowering of
conveyance capacity. Many control structures have also become non-functional. The fundamental cause
of deterioration is institutional and due to a vicious circle where water management organizations
(WMOs) (para. 2.7) are unable to maintain the systems due to shortage of funds, defers maintenance, and
cannot provide reliable irrigation water to the farmers, who then do not pay the water charges needed to
maintain the system.
C. THE INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
2.6    Organization of the Water Sector. As water is defined as a national asset under the 1991 the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia constitution, the Government assumes responsibility for
regulating its use and preserving its quality. The Department of Water Economy (DWE) of Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry, and Water Economy (MAFWE) regulates the use of water for agriculture, mainly
for irrigation; the Ministry of Urban Planning, Construction, and Environment Protection supervises the
use for municipal and industrial needs; and the Ministry of Health monitors drinking water quality. The
Republic Hydrometeorological Institute monitors the quality and records the flows, including issue of
flood warnings.
2.7    Water Management Organizations (WMOs). Under the Water Law of 1981, WMOs are the
principal institutions responsible for management of irrigation systems in the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, established at the time of construction on a scheme and district basis. There are 29
WMOs constituted and registered under the 1981 Water Law, which collectively form the Water
Management Association (WMA) and additional 10 WMOs joined later. Major irrigation systems are
typically managed by a main WMO and three to four distribution WMOs. Main WMOs own and
manage the primary water resource facilities, such as dams and main canals, and are often also
responsible for river control, erosion protection, drainage, and other water related activities. Smaller
distribution WMOs are generally responsible for only distribution of water from the secondary and
tertiary canals and pipes. All the WMOs are self-financed quasi-government organizations depending
only on water charges. They are often overstaffed and inefficiently managed by employee-elected



-8 -
managers, having no incentives for improving management. The draft new Water Law now envisages
that the WMOs would be merged into a single public enterprise, the Public Water Management
Enterprise (PWME).
2.8    Water Development Institute (WDI) and Melioprojek. Under the Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia, the WDI was assigned the task of assisting the MAFWE in carrying out research and
design studies for water resource development. Melioprojek was responsible for carrying out the
planning and design of irrigation schemes. After the break-up of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, both the institutions are currently operated as private consulting firms; however, WDI is
becoming a key institution for the development of the irrigation sub-sector, and no other national
engineering firm has comparable capacity.
2.9    Legal Framework.   While preparation of major revision is underway, the 1981 Water Law
.still governs the water sector. Under this law the MAFWE is charged with overall responsibility for
water resources, including planning and issuance of abstraction licenses. The law also provides the legal
basis for operation of the irrigation systems by WMOs. It specifies the responsibilities and tasks of the
WMOs, and sets out the irrigation code and regulations, including the basis of water charges, the rules
and penalties covering abuse of the systems and non-payment of fees. The WMOs have full
responsibility for their own management, for technical operation of the irrigation systems and collection
of water charges, however, they have to use the normal processes of the courts to pursue unpaid fees, and
this has proved ineffective.
2.10   The 1981 Water Law provided for user representation in irrigation management through the
"SIZ" organizations which had two key functions: (i) to obtain public funds from the central government
through general taxation; and (ii) to act as the forum through which users interests were represented in
important decisions, particularly the annual setting of water charges. However, these SIZ organizations
ceased operations in 1994, and the irrigation sector was left without the support of the funds obtained
from general taxation and without user representation. The latter contributed to the deterioration of
relations between the users and WMOs, and in consequence increased delinquent behavior and defaults
in payment of water charges.
D. WATER RESOURCES PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
2.11   Current Water Resource Management. The country's overall water resource management is
currently governed by the water master plan prepared in 1975, and is administered by the MAFWE. The
master plan envisages utilization of about 30, 20, and 7 percent of the total water available in Vardar
(including return flows) for irrigation, domestic, and industry, respectively, the flow in Vardar being
sufficient for the three water users even in dry years (Annex C for details regarding other rivers).
However, no update has been made to this master plan, and the National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP) (para. 2.23) identifies updating as a high priority activity. The former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia's water resources comprise international rivers or lakes, which are also covered by
international agreement made between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Greece or
Albania. No international agreements are made yet with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.



- 9-
E. FARMERS ORGANIZATIONS AND ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT
2.12   Farmer Organizations. There are currently no farmer organizations formally organized in the
irrigation sector. WMOs are directly dealing with individual water users for water requirement,
informning water delivery schedule, and collecting water tariff. However, associations of water users
(SIZs) were established under the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia with responsibilities for
making the main decisions concerning irrigation with WMOs, and participation in broader water
resource management and development. However, SIZs were found ineffective in late 1980s, and were
abolished in 1991, leaving the end users little representation in the WMOs and in water affairs generally.
2.13   On-Farm Water Management. Both private farmers and the agro-kombinats are responsible
for management of irrigation within their property boundaries. In areas occupied by private farmers,
distribution WMOs (refer to para 2.7) control the secondary and tertiary canals and pipelines, the farmers
only being responsible for taking water to their farms and for distribution thereon. Agro-Kombinats are
generally responsible for the secondary and tertiary canals in their areas.
2.14   Most of the schemes in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia provide sprinkler irrigation,
the buried pipelines having adequate head, either through gravity or with booster pumping. Both agro-
kombinats and private farmers have pressurized irrigation equipment but have been unable to replace
deteriorated equipment over the last decade, so that both groups could face a shortage of equipment when
the schemes reach full utilization. The agro-kombinats are better equipped, but the lack of the irrigation
equipment does not seem to be a critical issue for private farmers, who often share equipment among
themselves, purchase segment pipes piece by piece, and apply surface irrigation techniques, such as
furrows, when necessary.
F. FINANCIAL ISSUES
2.15   Water Tariff. The 1981 Water Law laid down procedures for fixing of the water tariffs which
were accepted by the WMA and followed by all WMOs. The formula for calculation of water charges
was based on the estimated budget costs of water delivery, and included components to cover
depreciation (2 percent of asset value) and contribution to the WMO's capital reserves. Currently, the
water charge is based on the crop and the area, and is not based on the actual volume of water used, so
that there is insufficient incentive for efficient field irrigation, with over-irrigation at the top of the
system and under-irrigation at the bottom.
2.16   Cost Recovery. There is a long history of successful collection of irrigation water charges in the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; farmers and agro-kombinats have until recently fully paid
operation and maintenance costs and contributed significantly to capital cost recovery through
amortization. However, the collection rate has drastically decreased since 1990 due to the loss of
agricultural market and decrease in the utilization of the irrigation systems. Following the current
procedures, WMOs increased the per hectare irrigation charges so as to maintain their income to cover
the operational cost, which in turn further reduced utilization and encouraged payment default. It has
been very difficult for elected managers to reduce the staff size of WMOs under the high unemployment
rate. Many WMOs are struggling just to pay staff salaries and are deferring the maintenance of the
irrigation schemes. The current irrigation water charges are very high ($300-500 per hectare) twice those
in comparable schemes in the neighboring countries, and exceed an acceptable maximum level relative



- 10-
to the income generated by irrigated agriculture. The current cost recovery rate is low (30-35 percent)
and most WMOs are in severe financial hardship.
2.17   The Water Tariff System under the New Water Law. The proposed new Water Law would
establish a new Water Fund to be funded by general taxation to cover the expenses for water sector
activities with public interest such as river protection. Therefore, farmers (water users) would be
exempted from paying for the cost of such activities. In addition, with the introduction of beneficiary
participation in irrigation management, the irrigation water tariff is expected to substantially decrease.
The details on the irrigation water tariff would be later prepared by the Public Water Management
Enterprise (PWME) after the ratification of the new Water Law (para. 2.20) and the following key issues
would be addressed: (a) scheme-specific water charges to eliminate cross subsidies; (b) the level of the
user contribution to capital cost recovery; and (c) introduction of volumetric charges.
G. SECTOR STRATEGY AND THE PROPOSED NEW WATER LAW
2.18   Sector Issues and Strategies. The major sectoral issue is the downward spiral starting from
high operational and maintenance cost, low-cost recovery, deferred maintenance and physical
deterioration, which seriously jeopardizes the sustainability of the irrigation sub-sector. The sector
strategy is to increase the efficiency and sustainability of the irrigation systems by the introduction of
more cost effective and efficient (in terms of water usage) management, in particular, (a) restructuring
institutional arrangements to increase efficiency and sustainability of the irrigation schemes (i.e.,
consolidating WMOs to a public institution and promoting user participation in irrigation management);
and (b) physically improving deteriorated irrigation systems to restore their original capacity. Five
irrigation systems, including Bregalnica, Tikves, and Polog have been identified as priority for
rehabilitation in the 1995/98 Public Investment Program.
2.19   New Water Law. As a first step, the Government has currently prepared a new Water Law
replacing the current legislation in order to establish an enabling environment for financially sound, cost-
effective, and user-oriented institutional arrangement possibly through a user-participatory approach.
There are three key provisions of this new law regarding the irrigation sector: (a) restructuring of
WMOs; (b) introduction of WUAs; and (c) the provision of additional financial resources through a new
Water Fund.
2.20   Restructuring of WMOs into Public Enterprises. All the WMOs would be merged into a
public single enterprise under the prevailing Public Enterprise Law upon adoption of new Water Law. A
single umbrella national-level entity, the Public Water Management Enterprise (PWME), would be
created to incorporate the responsibilities and assets of all WMOs, which would form subdivisions of the
PWME. The PWME would then retain the current role of the WMOs, but would also have much wider
responsibilities for sustainable, environmentally sound management of the country's water resources.
Government supervision would be substantially strengthened, as it will appoint the director and members
of the managing board. Under the Government's current plan, separate operational units would be
established under the PWME serving each individual scheme with separate accounts and possibly with
different water tariff.



2.21   Introduction of WUAs. The new Water Law specifically allows for the formation of Water
Users Associations (WUAs), to encourage water users (farmers) to participate in irrigation management
by operation and maintenance of facilities allocated to them by the PWME.
2.22   The Water Fund. The new Water Law establishes two general sources of income for the
PWME: user charges for the provision of services such as water for irrigation, drinking or industrial use,
and funds from the new Water Fund for activities with public interest such as river protection. The
Water Fund would receive its income from a general water compensation tax levied on income, utilities
and industries using water, various fines and compensations, and from the annual state budget.
H. ENVIRONMENTAL SECTOR ISSUES
2.23   General Environmental Issues. Most current environmental problems are attributable to the
past policies and practices under the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in which natural resources
and the environment were undervalued. Prior to 1995, a number of agencies were involved in the
environment in a fragmented way in the absence of framework law. Many environmental regulations
were outdated and were weakly enforced. In December 1996, the Government of the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia passed the Environmental Law as the overall framework. The law designated the
Ministry of Urban Planning, Construction and the Environment (MUPCE) as the principal ministry
responsible for overall environmental issues, and the MAFWE responsible for the water sector in
particular. In- addition, in collaboration with the Bank, the Government has prepared the National
Environment Action Plan (NEAP), which identifies the preparation of an updated national water
resources plan as a priority activity.
2.24   Irrigation Sector Issues. Very few environmental issues arise from the proposed irrigation
rehabilitation, which primarily has positive effects. Irrigation water quality is generally adequate, and
there are no widespread or significant drainage or salinity problems. The proposed rehabilitation, by
reducing water losses, will have only a positive effect; the use of agricultural chemicals, currently very
low, is not expected to rise to the levels causing concern to the environment. Monitoring and control of
such environmental concerns will in future be the responsibility of the PWME.
3. THE PROJECT
A. BACKGROUND
3.1    With the recent decline in the manufacturing sector of the economy following independence, an
increasing proportion of the population depends on agriculture for a part or all of its income. Given the
generally small and fragmented nature of land holdings in the country, the use of intensive modem
methods of production are essential if farmers are to produce surplus for sale. However, intensive crop
production would be only possible with irrigation, as during the growing season transpiration
substantially exceeds precipitation.
3.2    Substantial investments were made in the irrigation sub-sector during the 40 years of the socialist
regime.  However, these systems have deteriorated partly because of poor construction quality.
Moreover, since 1990, the deterioration accelerated as the country's agricultural products started losing



- 12-
their market due to the outburst of hostilities in neighboring countries, and caused vicious cycles of low-
cost recovery, delayed maintenance, system deterioration and failure to deliver water. In these three
schemes to be rehabilitated under the Project, Tikves, Bregalnica and Polog, the current situation is
becoming critical and unless substantial rehabilitation works are undertaken, the schemes would almost
cease to function in the near future, putting the livelihoods of about 25,000 farmers at stake.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.3    Project Rationale. Irrigation is essential in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to re-
establish the country's potential in agriculture. Accordingly, the rehabilitation of the deteriorated
existing irrigation infrastructure has the first priority under the project in order to maximize the
economic benefit given the current budgetary constraint. In addition to infrastructure investment, the
project would also aim to introduce several initiatives. These initiatives include more cost-effective and
efficient irrigation management, by restructuring of water management organizations (WMOs) and
promotion of participatory irrigation management through water user associations (WUAs) in order to
establish sustainable irrigation subsector in the country.
3.4    Project Objectives. The ultimate objectives of the proposed Project are (a) to enable the private
farmers to fully regain the potential of the irrigated agriculture sector through the rehabilitation of the
three deteriorated irrigation schemes with high priorities; and (b) to enhance the sustainability and
efficiency of the irrigation schemes by introducing participatory management. Specific elements of
strategies to be taken under the Project are (a) restructuring of irrigation and operation and management
practices through establishment of more efficient and cost-effective methods, based on the introduction
of user participation and reform of the present Water Management Organizations (WMOs); (b)
optimization of the area irrigated in each scheme through rehabilitation and repair of physical
infrastructure; and (c) introduction of more technologically advanced crop production and irrigation
methods.
3.5    Project Design Considerations. The major concern of the Project design is to improve the
sustainability of the irrigation sub-sector. In order to break the vicious cycles (para 3.2), the project
would rehabilitate the infrastructure and support initiatives to increase efficiency of irrigation
management (i.e., restructuring water management organizations (WMOs) and introducing a
participatory irrigation management on pilot basis). Selection of the project area has been based on (a)
economic viability; (b) soundness of overall system design; (c) availability of sufficient water; (d) extent
of deterioration of the physical conditions; and (e) large percentage of the private land. The Project
would also assist the Government in obtaining advanced technologies to resolve certain technical issues
(e.g., growing of algae) through cooperation with the international specialists and the national research
institutes.
3.6    Project Description:  The Project would consist of the following five components: (a)
rehabilitation of the irrigation infrastructure in three regions including Tikves, Bregalnica and Polog
covering approximately 47,000 hectare of service area in total (base cost USD20.72 million); (b) an
institutional development program (base cost USD1.60 million) including subcomponents of (i) a series
of pilot programs to develop water user associations (WUAs), improve on-farm irrigation practices, and
explore the possibilities for user participation in minor repairs; (ii) a study on Bregalnica water resource
management; and (iii) support to restructuring water management organizations (WMOs) through legal



- 13 -
advice and technical support; (c) a technical studies program for specific problems including dam safety,
algae and repair of the systems (base cost USD0.82 million); and (d) project administration and
monitoring (base cost USD3.01 million); and (e) implementation support for WMOs (base cost USD0.50
million).
C. PROJECT AREA
3.7    The Project would finance the rehabilitation of three irrigation schemes in the central and
western regions of the country. After evaluating the different schemes needing rehabilitation under the
criteria described in para. 3.5, Tikves, Bregalnica and Polog schemes were selected for the proposed
Project. All the systems lie in the River Vardar Basin. These are very well connected by roads and
railroad to the rest of the country, as well as with potential export partners. In general, designs of these
schemes has been confirmed to be adequate for the natural conditions and current needs of irrigation.
The schemes are briefly described below and detailed information are provided in Annex A.
3.8    Tikves Scheme: The Tikves irrigation scheme is located in the central southeast part of the
country near the town of Kavadarci, covering approximately 13,000 hectares of command area shared
between 8,700 private farmers and eight agro-kombinats. Tikves scheme was constructed in the 1970s.
The water supply is drawn from the Tikves dam on the River Crna, a major tributary of the Vardar.
About 80 percent of the total areas are based on gravity, while the rest is served by three pumping
stations. The climate in Tikves area is classified as semi-arid, transitional between Mediterranean and
Continental with average annual rainfall about 450 mm. Irrigation is essential and a pre-requisite to
competitive economic agriculture. The major crop is vines (nearly 50 percent in 1990), the remainder
being a mixture of cereals, vegetable, fodder and industrial crops. The irrigated area has declined
considerably during the last seven years from 87 percent to 57 percent of the service area due to the
deteriorated irrigation service and the loss of markets. The cost-recovery rate has decreased from 90
percent in the 1980s to about 30 percent in 1995, and the three WMOs managing the scheme face
considerable financial hardship'. The Project would help farmers resume irrigation and increase farming
income, as the market, particularly for wine, has been recovering considerably.
3.9    Bregalnica Scheme is located in the central northeast part of the country between the towns of
Kocani and Stip. Its water is supplied by Kalimanci Dam on the Bregalnica River, a tributary of the
Vardar. The Bregalnica Scheme covers 25,500 hectares of command area shared among 11,000 private
farmers and seventeen agro-kombinats. About 30 percent of the area is served by a pumping station.
The Bregalnica climate is semi-arid Continental with an average annual rainfall around 500 mm, and
irrigation is essential. In the past, the major crop was rice, grown in the area served by canals, mostly in
Kocani, the other crops being cereals, vegetable, fodder and industrial crops. However, the irrigated area
has declined considerably from 59 percent of the service area in 1990 to 26 percent in 1996, due to the
deteriorated irrigation service and the loss of markets. In particular, the rice area has declined following
termination of the price support. The proposed rehabilitation would covere the upper part of the scheme
covering approximately 18,000 hectares, exclusively served by gravity, and mostly owned by 10,800
private farmers. However, the focus would be the high-priority left bank area of 3,200 hectares.
1996 figures was better due to the recovery of the wine export.



-14-
3.10 Polog Scheme, operated exclusively by gravity, is located in the north-western part of the
country near the towns of Gostivar and Tetovo. Its service area of about 9,410 hectares is shared
between 5,150 private farmners2 and two relatively small agro-kombinats with an average size of about
250 hectare. The climate in Polog area is classified as continental Mediterranean with average annual
rain fall about 600 mm. The crops grown are mainly wheat, alfalfa, clover, maize, with small area under
vegetables. The irrigated area has declined between 1988 and 1996 from 60 percent to 47 percent due to
the deterioration of irrigation systems and loss of markets. The cost recovery rate has decreased in the
same period from 57 percent to 36 percent. The water requirement of the scheme is met from the Vardar
river which receives water from the Mavrovo reservoir in Cmi Drim basin, through a trans-basin tunnel
for generation of power at Vrutok and Raven hydropower stations. An agreement exists between the
government owned Electric Power Company of Macedonia and MAFWE that the power releases shall
meet the irrigation requirements, and assurances have been obtained that suspension events under the
loan/credit would be triggered if any bleach, cancellations and/or modification would be made to this
agreement without prior agreement of the Bank.
3.11   Profile of Private Farmers in Project Area: The majority of the private farming households
are part-timers with substantial income from off-farm employment (Bregalnica and Tikves: 50 to 60
percent, Polog 80-90 percent). More than 50 percent of the farmers have less than 1 hectare of irrigated
land, which is often fragmented, mainly due to the successive inheritance process. Since 1990, under
diminishing off-farm employment opportunities since 1990, an increasing number of these farmers are
forced to live on these plots, especially in Bregalnica and Tikves. In the jurisdiction of the Negotino
Municipality in Bregalnica, the share of full-time farmers increased from 30 to 60 percent. The
unemployment issue is less serious among farmers of the Polog Scheme as most off-farm employment of
the ethnic Albanian households (nearly 70 percent of the beneficiary households of Polog) is migrant
labour abroad.
3.12   Private farmers rank the deteriorating irrigation service and marketing limitations as their main
constraints. The lack of off-farm employment opportunities, purchase of inputs, and high water charges
are additional problems. In Bregalnica and Tikves, farmers express dissatisfaction with the service
provided by the WMOs; their complaints are about the poor level of maintenance, the high level of
water charges, the lack of transparency in accounting, their lack of representation and consultation in
major decision-making and about the irrigation schedules. The rice farmers in Bregalnica give weight to
the lost rice market, and also draw attention to the damaged canalet distribution. Farmers at Polog
Scheme complain on the location of hydrants, and inconvenient hours of irrigation water supply due to
the uneven power generation pattern of the upstream power plant.
3.13   Farmers in the project area consider the current water charge very high vis-a-vis the service they
receive. The farmers would participate in irrigation management and accept some responsibilities;
however, initial education on the concept of participatory irrigation would be a critical factor, as they
consider water distribution and scheme maintenance still as tasks of the WMOs.
2 Project Area. The whole Polog scheme covers 13,900 hectare of land shared among 13,000 private farmers and
three agro-kombinats. The figures given for area and ownership refer only to the portion of the service area
where irrigation system is to be rehabilitated.



- 15 -
3.14   Women in Agriculture: Women play an essential role in agricultural production in the project
area: on average about half of agricultural work is performed by them. In households where men are
engaged in off-farm employment, the share of work carried out by women is often larger. While no rigid
labor division according to gender is visible, women tend to be more involved in manual work while the
mechanized tasks are generally assigned to men. Irrigation is traditionally considered a task for men,
but women participate whenever necessary. According to the WMOs in the project area, only a few
women are currently registered as water users, possibly due to the practice for transfer of land ownership
where daughters usually voluntarily renounce their land rights in favor of their brothers. Women
consider the poor irrigation water supply, next to the marketing limitations, as the main constraint to
increased agricultural production. Attending public meetings is a man's business, but women express
their interest in participating in decisive WUA meetings if the men of their household were unable to
attend.
3.15   The Project would pay explicit attention to women, since (i) women perform a considerable part
of the work in irrigated agriculture; (ii) most of the men are engaged in off-farm employment; and (iii)
women who work in agriculture need to be informed and consulted about the Project. Under the Pilot
WUA program included in the Institutional Development Component, special attention to women would
be integrated in activities related to WlUAs and farmer participation with the following objectives: (a) to
increase agricultural production through increased efficiency by utilizing women's potentials; and (b) to
ensure the participation of women in activities of the Project particularly those within WlUAs. The main
activities in this context would be raising of gender awareness in the staff of PMT, participating WMOs,
and WUA leaders; and to support the participation of women in relevant farmer training programs and
WUA activities.
3.16   Ethnic Aspects in the Project Area: While farmers of the Tikves and Bregalnica area are all
ethnic Macedonians, about two thirds of the farmers in Polog Area are of Albanian origin, followed by
Macedonians (22 percent) and others, such as Turkish origin (12 percent). Ethnic Albanian and
Macedonian inhabitants are segregated in separate villages with few exceptions. Ethnic Albanian
households are extended and/or joint families, and often have difficulty in finding off-farm employment.
Consequently, nearly all ethnic Albanian families have at least one family member (often the sons and
husbands) working abroad, and the remaining family members (wives and grand fathers) are engaged in
subsistence farming. On the other hand, ethnic Macedonian farming families are generally comprised of
nuclear families with off-farm income from employment within the country. Many of them have left the
villages and moved to the town for better employment, keeping their land as subsistence.
D. MAIN COMPONENTS AND DETAILED FEATURES
3.17   Component 1: System Rehabilitation (Base Cost US$20.72 million). This component would
consist of the essential and most urgent repairs and the replacement of the damaged portions of the
irrigation systems. Measurement structures would be installed at intakes of major secondary canals and
at the borders between the main WMOs and distribution WMOs in primary canals in order to monitor the
water use at each secondary network and assess each WMO's operational efficiency.  Detailed
rehabilitation proposals are set out below.
3.18  In Tikves, the Project would support the following sub-components: (a) repair of system intake
tunnel; (b) rehabilitation of main canals; (c) repair of structures and siphons; and (d) replacement of



-16-
damaged pipes, hydrants and valves of the buried pipe distribution system. The average per hectare
rehabilitation cost would be USD730. The details of sub-components in Tikves can be summarized
below:
(a) Repair of System Intake: The cracks halfway up the gate shaft at the right abutment of Tikves dam
would be grouted, and a steel lining in a 30 meter section of the tunnel (needs to be confirmed when
reservoir is lowered) will be installed, as an interim measure to prevent the collapse of the tunnel until an
alternative tunnel could be constructed.
(b) Rehabilitation of Main Canals: The concrete lining of the main canals (joint canal 7.1 km, left bank
canal 33.7 km, right bank canal 43.8 km and one branch canal 10.9 km) would be replaced in about 12
percent of the length where it is badly damaged. The cracks and open joints in the otherwise satisfactory
lining would be sealed in about 82 percent of the length, of which 51 percent would have partial
replacement of lining as well.
(c) Repairs to Structures: The repairs to damages would be carried out at most of the structures,
including works to stop the leakage at aqueducts. The repairs to siphons shall be carried out after
completion of the study for repairs (para. 3.22 b). Four new measurement structures will be constructed.
(d) Renovation of the Buried Pipe Distribution System: As the pipe network is generally in good
condition, only the broken offtake valves, hydrants, etc., and pipes would be replaced.
3.19   In Bregalnica, the Project would support (a) repairs to Kalimanci Dam; (b) rehabilitation of
damaged sections of the left bank main canal and upper part of the right bank main canal; (c) repairs to
structures; and (d) rehabilitation of distribution network in the area served by the left bank canal. The
average base cost per hectare rehabilitation for the Left Bank Area would be about US$600. The details
of each sub-component in Bregalnica are summarized below:
(a) Repair to Kalimanci Dam: The dam crest will be raised by 1.2m (the dumped rockfill dam having
gradually settled after completion) to restore to initial height, and grouting will be carried out from the
foundation gallery in reaches showing high seepage pressures (para 3.47).
(b) Rehabilitation of Left Bank and Upper Right Bank Main Canals: Repairs to the concrete lining of the
highest priority main canals would include sealing of cracks in about 86 percent of the length, of which
36 percent would have partial replacement.
(c) Repairs to Structures: The structures on these canals are generally in satisfactory condition. Only
minor repairs to damages would be carried out. At four locations, new measurement structures would be
constructed.
(d) Rehabilitation of Left Bank Service Area Distribution Network: The service area is served by
pipeline secondaries and canalets tertiaries. The broken pipes and not-functioning hydrants, valves, etc.,
on the piped supply would be replaced. On the canalets, the damages to saddles, canalets, and all the
structures on the network would be repaired.



- 17-
3.20   In Polog, the project would support (a) rehabilitation of the Bonichko Pole main canal; (b)
improvement of the network of distribution pipes in the service area of the Gostivar canal; (c)
rehabilitation of the lower half length of the Tetovo main canal; and (d) improvement of the earthen
distribution channels in the same Tetovo area. The average per hectare rehabilitation cost would be
US$680. The rehabilitation plan for Polog is briefly summarized below:
(a) Rehabilitation of the Bonichko Pole main canal: is required in about 42 percent of the total canal
length of 11 kilometers, where it is aligned along the hill side and loses water by seepage. The canal
would be resectioned and lined with concrete, and proper turnouts would be reconstructed.
(b) Improvement of the Gostivar pipe network: will include: (i) replacing broken pipes, damaged
hydrants and valves, (ii) splitting the network for independent supply from the main canal for the few
villages located at lower elevation, which have not been receiving the irrigation supplies, and (iii)
installing meters at all the turnouts on the main canal in order to measure irrigation supplies to each
pipeline. The detailed rehabilitation plan may have to be modified with further dialogue with the farmers
during the project implementation.
(c) Rehabilitation of the main canal in Tetovo: shall be carried out in the lower part from km 12.10 to km
26.00; the upper part, rehabilitated in 1986, would require only minor work. The rehabilitation would
include resectioning the canal for higher capacity and flattening of side slopes; concrete lining with
drainage; introduction of long-crested check structures; repairs to a pump station including replacement
of pumps.
(d) Rehabilitation of the distribution system in Tetovo area: would be carried out for areas to be served
by the lower portion of main canal to be rehabilitated. The work would include restoring deteriorated
section of the secondaries including lining of the essential reactions and constructing distribution
structures for supply to tertiaries. Meters will be installed at all the turnouts for measuring the supplies to
the secondaries.
3.21   Component 2: Institutional Development Component: (Base Cost: US$1.89 million). This
component would support the Government's initiatives to increase efficiency and establish sustainability
of the irrigation sub-sector through (a) a pilot water users association (WUA) program; (b) pilot
improved water management; (c) pilot self-help rehabilitation; (d) a mathematical modeling of water
resources in Bregalnica and Polog Scheme; and (e) technical assistance for the ongoing reorganization of
the water management organizations (WMOs). Details of these sub-components are summarized below
(refer to Annex B, Project Implementation Plan for further details).
(a) Pilot Water User Associations (WUAs): Under the Project, seven WUAs would be established during
the first two years of the project implementation as a pilot program to promote participatory irrigation
management.  This pilot program would be disseminated across the project area after the mid-term
review if it is considered to be successful. Under this subcomponent, 31 man-months (m/m) of technical
assistance from a WUA specialist ( 16 for the pilot phase and 15 for the dissemination stage) and two (2)
man-months (m/m) of a gender specialist would be financed to provide: (i) technical assistance and on-site
training to the WUAs and implementation staff in the WMOs, and (ii) training and guidance to secure the
full participation of women in WUA affairs. Under the subcomponent (i), on-the-job training will be
supplemented by in-country training, overseas training and study tours to enhance the skills in the field of



- 18 -
training, communication and participation processes, technical skills including irrigation system
management, irrigation scheduling, field irrigation methods and computer applications. Gender awareness
raising will be part of the skill enhancement related to farmers participation processes. Equipment would be
provided under the project to support the improvement of irrigation management at the tertiary and field
level. Training of WUA leaders would be in management, leadership and communication skills,
bookkeeping, and financial management of associations, irrigation scheduling, repair and maintenance of
irrigation systems. Training of WUA members (in particular those members of the farming household who
are actually engaged in field work and irrigation) would be provided in field irrigation techniques, irrigation
schedules and appropriate agricultural topics. As the task of creating, organizing and supporting WUAs is
not a current responsibilities of WMOs, the project would also finance the incremental operating costs of
participating WMOs under Component 5 (para 3.24). The detailed scope of the technical assistance would
be developed at the mid-term review (para. 4.7).
(b) Pilot Improved Water Management: This subcomponent would assist the pilot WUAs in developing
efficient, water-saving improvements to both tertiary canals and methods for field irrigation. In sprinkler
areas, the emphasis would be on irrigation scheduling, management of rotations and encouragement of
night-time irrigation.  In the surface irrigation areas, the emphasis would be on field irrigation
techniques, particularly furrow irrigation for maize and vegetables, and border-strip for alfalfa.  The
project inputs will be 24 m/m and 6 m/m of technical assistance, respectively, from national and
expatriate experts, in-country training of WIA members, and equipment.
(c) Pilot Self-help Rehabilitation: This sub-component would be implemented exclusively in the service
area of one WUA at the Bregalnica Right Bank having an open canal system of secondaries and
tertiaries. The project would support the WMO staff and WUA members in implementation of
rehabilitation in an area of up to 1,000 hectares using self-help principles. The project would finance
materials, equipment, and training. WMO staff would provide technical assistance and the farrners,
through their WUA, would contribute their labor.
(d) Mathematical Models of Water Resources on Bregalnica and Polog Schemes: The project would
appoint a national specialist organization associated with an international specialist institute, to develop:
(i) a hydrological simulation model to provide optimal real-time water resource management for the
complex hydrological system of Bregalnica, and (ii) a mathematical river model for Polog to assist
determination of water availability for different power release returns. National and international
specialists, training, specialist software and associated costs would be covered.
(e) Support for the ongoing reorganization of the water management organizations (WMOs): This
component would finance the critical technical assistance to support the restructuring of WMOs, which
would be started with the ratification of the new Water Law. The component would finance: (i) 3 m/m
technical assistance to the MAFWE and PWME in drafting regulations and codes formning a part of new
Water Law, (ii) 8 m/in technical assistance for improving the audit/cost accounting of four participating
WMOs including appropriate computerized accounting systems and periodical monitoring of the key
performance indicators; and (iii) equipment, computers, software and training for the four WMOs.
3.22   Component 3: Technical Studies: (Base Cost: US$ 0.51 million): This component would
support studies for the solution of the various problems at the two schemes concerning (a) growing of



-19-
algae in main canals; (b) inspection of siphons to establish rehabilitation requirements; (c) estimation of
floods at the two storage dams to further evaluate safety; and (d) alternative alignment for Tikves intake
tunnel. These studies would be carried out mainly local research institutions in close collaborations with
international experts. Details of these sub-components are summarized below:
(a)    Algae Problem: A specialized group would examine the causes of algae formation on the canals,
suggest measures to eliminate its formation, and conduct trials to finally select an effective
treatment.
(b)   Inspection of Siphons: A specialized firm will be asked to advise the methodology for inspection
of siphons which can not be directly examined, to inspect the siphons of all sizes, and to report
on the status of deterioration to establish rehabilitation requirements.
(c)    Estimation of Floods:  A specialized group will be assigned the task of re-estimating the
maximum probable floods at the Tikves and Kalimanci Dams using the latest data and modern
procedures, and to evaluate the sufficiency of spillway capacities.
(d)    Tikves Tunnel Re-alignment: Geological studies will be carried out for exploring an alternative
alignment for the inlet portion of the Tikves intake tunnel, since the current alignment is showing
rock movements which could endanger the safety of the tunnel. Should a feasible alignment be
possible, designs and cost estimates will be prepared.
3.23   Component 4: Project Administration and Monitoring (Base Cost US$3.01 million): This
component would support essential tasks to carry out the project implementation and would have the
following two sub-components:
(a)    Support to the Project Management Team (PMT): While the MAFWE would have overall
responsibility for the implementation and monitoring of the Project, the majority of
administrative tasks would be delegated to a PMT to be established within the MAFWE, to
manage the various stages of project implementation. In particular, this component would
finance essential national staff and a supporting team of expatriate experts comprising: (i) Chief
Technical Advisor (18 staff/months), (ii) Construction Supervision and management Advisor (4
staff/months), (iii) Procurement Advisor (4 staff/months), (iv) Financial Control and Accounting
Advisor (4 staff/months). This sub-component would also finance essential office equipment
and vehicles for PMT and experts.
(b)    Design and Construction Supervision: The Project would finance a team of local consultants to
carry out design, tender document preparation, and construction supervision for civil works to be
financed under the Project.
3.24   Component 5: Implementation Support (Base Cost US$0.50 million):  This component
would finance incremental operating cost of the irrigation systems and incremental staff of four
participating WMOs (para 4.5). These WMOs would take Project implementation responsibilities for
carrying out pilot WUA programs, preparing annual irrigation reports and other responsibilities. A total
sum of US$100,000 would be provided for each year of Project implementation for the participating



-20 -
WMOs. The annual allocation of funds among the four participating WMOs would be determined each
year by PMT, depending on the responsibilities assigned and number of additional staff needed.
E. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
3.25   The Project would be implemented over six years. Investments would be more or less evenly
distributed throughout the project life reflecting the narrow window of opportunity for construction only
during early autumn and late spring. The Project would have two phases with a comprehensive mid-term
review between the first and the second phase. During the first phase, the rehabilitation would be focused
on the repair of main structures such as primary canals and dams, which would have immediate and
major benefit for the entire iffigation schemes. During the second phase, secondary networks with high
priorities would be rehabilitated. This approach would ensure adequate budget allocation to the main
structures and allow sufficient time during project implementation to reconfirn the priority sections in
secondary networks in need of rehabilitation. All of the pilot programs and technical studies would be
completed during the first phase, and the outcome of these programs and studies would be reviewed and
strategies for application across the Project Area would be developed during the mid-term review.
F. PROJECT COST
3.26   Table 3.1 summarizes the project costs and details are presented in Annex B. The proposed
project is estimated to cost approximately US$32.5 million based on late-1996 prices, including physical
and price contingencies. The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$11.3 million or
about 35 percent of the total project cost. The exchange rate as of July 1997 (I USD = 55.5 Denar) was
used for the calculation of the project cost. Import duties, taxes, and other levies are not included in the
project costs, based on the assumption that any procurement from overseas for the Project would be
exempt from taxes. The physical contingencies of 15 percent for most of civil works, 20 percent for
some works for Polog, and 5 percent for consultation services for the studies and goods, would cover the
possible increase of quantities of work for rehabilitation. The price contingencies have been taken based
on the anticipated inflation within the country and for overseas costs, according to the Bank guidelines.
The detailed cost tables are attached as Attachment III of Annex B.
Table 3.1: Components Project Cost Summary
(US$ Million)
Local   Foreign    Total   % Foreign   % of Total
Component              Cost      Cost      Cost       Cost      Base Cost
A. System Rehabilitation         14.12      6.59     20.72         32           78
B. Institutional Development      0.27      1.62      1.89         86            7
C. Technical Studies              0.28      0.23      0.51         46            2
D. Administration and Monitoring  2.05      0.95      3.01         32            11
E. Implementation Support For     0.50        0       0.50          0            2
WMO
Total Base Cost                   17.22     9.40     26.62         35           100
Physical Contingencies            2.42      1.19      3.61         33            14
Price Contingencies                1.57     0.66      2.23         30            8
TOTAL PROJECT COST               21.21     11.25     32.46         35           122



- 21 -
G. FINANCING PLAN
3.27   The financing plan for the proposed Project is presented in Table 3.2. A Bank loanlcredit of
US$12.5 million (US$ 5.0 million equivalent from IDA Credit and US$ 7.5 million equivalent from
IBRD Loan) to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia would finance about 39 percent of the total
costs. This would cover about 52 percent of foreign cost and 31 percent of local cost. The Borrower
would contribute about US$8.0 million equivalent, or about 25 percent of the total project cost. The
Government of Netherlands would provide the equivalent of about US $12.0 million on a grant basis to
finance the System Rehabilitation Component, the Institutional Development Component, the Technical
Studies Component, a part of the Project Administration and Monitoring Component, and the
Incremental Operating Cost Component.
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Item            Local         Foreign        Total
IBRD/IDA               6.62           5.88          12.50
Government of
Netherlands            6.61           5.37          11.98
Government             7.98           0.00          7.98
Total                  21.21          11.25        32.46
3.28   Counterpart Funds.  The Government has assured that approximately $450,000 will be
allocated to the Project from FY 1997 budget to cover advance payment to contractors and other
expenses, and that timely availability of counterpart funds to ensure the smooth implementation of the
project will be ensured for each Project year.
3.29   Retroactive Financing: Considering limited opportunities for rehabilitating irrigation canals
during only non-irrigation season (i.e. between October and early April), procurement of all of the first
year civil works contracts might have to be completed and contractors should be mobilized by early
winter in order to avoid the loss of whole year. In this context, a total of US$ 1,000,000, or 8 percent of
the total amount of loan and credit would be proposed for retroactive financing should the Loan Signing
be delayed to cover the progress payment toward the two first year civil works contracts for Tikves and
Bregalnica. The total estimated amount of these three contracts, specified in Attachment IV of Annex B
as CWC 101, and 201, are US$ 1.24 million and would be procured through national competitive
bidding. The period of retroactivity would be from July 1, 1997.



- 22 -
H. PROCUREMENT
3.30   The implementation of the project would require the procurement of civil works, goods, and
consultants. The procurement of goods and works under the project would be conducted in accordance
with the Bank Guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit dated January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996. The procurement of consultants would follow the Bank's
Guideline, "Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," dated January 1997. A General
Procurement Notice was issued in the Development Business in July 16 1997. The procurement
arrangements are summarized in Section IV of Annex B.
3.31   The responsibility for procurement would rest with the Project Management Team (PMT). The
progress on procurement would be reported in a suitable format to the Bank in the quarterly reports. The
Design and Contract Supervision Consultant would assist the PMT in the preparation of the procurement
documents and processing of the offers received for civil works. The PMT would have a full-time
position for procurement activities. PMT would also have an international specialist in procurement,
who would train the PMT full-time procurement staff to properly carry out the procurement in
accordance with the procedures set up by him. In addition, the PMT procurement staff would be trained
in a Bank-organized seminar; and a project start-up workshop would be held in October 1997.
1. DISBURSEMENT
3.32   The proposed Bank loan/IDA credit of US$12.5 million equivalent would be disbursed over a
period of six years, and the expected closing date would be September 30, 2004. While there is no
experience yet to form a disbursement profile for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, six years
would be sufficient to implement the project, given the nature and size of the project and the past
experience in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The detailed disbursement profile is
attached as Annex E.
3.33   The proceeds of the loan and the credit would be disbursed as shown in Table 3.3 a and b. It
should be noted that no disbursement is proposed against (a) consultants' services; and (b) incremental
operational cost, as these would be eligible under the co-financing by the Government of Netherlands.
To the extent practicable, the proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed before the proceeds of the
Bank loan.
3.34   Disbursements against the categories described in Table 3.3 (a) and (b) would be made upon
receipt by the Bank of fully documented applications except for: (i) contracts for works valued at less
than US$1,000,000; and (ii) contracts for goods, including vehicles, costing less than US$200,000.
Disbursement for these items would be made against statements of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting
documentation for SOEs would be retained by the Borrower and made available to the Bank during
supervision.
3.35   Special Account: To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish two
separate Special Accounts (SA): one for the IDA credit and the other for the IBRD loan at the Central
Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would make an authorized allocation
of US$ 500,000 for the special account for the IDA credit. Initially, the allocation would be limited to
US$ 250,000 until disbursement has reached SDR 0.75 million, then the full authorized allocation could



- 23 -
be claimed. The Bank would also make an authorized allocation of DM I million for the IBRD loan.
The IDA credit would be drawn completely before the IBRD loan starts being withdrawn. Applications
for the replenishment of these SAs would be submitted monthly or when 20 percent of the initial deposit
has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment applications would be supported by the
necessary documentation, bank statement of the special account, a reconciliation bank statement of the
special account against Bank records.
Table 3.3a: Disbursement Categories for IDA Credit
Disbursement Category         Allocation         Disbursement Basis
(SDR million)
1. Goods                               0.15       100 percent of foreign
(equipment and materials)                        expenditure, 100 percent of local
expenditure (ex-factory cost) and
85 percent of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
2. Vehicles                            0.11       100 percent of foreign
expenditure, 100 percent of local
expenditure (ex-factory cost) and
85 percent of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
3. Works                               3.07       75 percent of expenditure
4. Unallocated                         0.37
TOTAL                             3.70
Table 3.3b: Disbursement Categories for IBRD Loan
Disbursement Category        Allocation           Disbursement Basis
(DM million)
1. Goods                              0.36       100 percent of foreign expenditure,
(equipment and materials)                       100 percent of local expenditure
(ex-factory cost) and 85 percent of
local expenditures for other items
procured locally
2. Works                              11.79      75 percent of expenditure
3. Unallocated                        1,35
l    TOTAL                       13.50



- 24 -
J. HISTORY OF PROJECT PREPARATION
3.36   The proposed Project has been based on the preliminary economic and technical screening from
10 irrigation schemes identified in a series of FAO studies3. Tikves and Bregalnica Schemes were first
selected jointly with the Government and the FAO's preparation mission in October 1995.
Subsequently, FAO dispatched two missions in May and December 1996, and assisted the Government
in preparing a draft project proposal including economic analysis and socio-economic beneficiary
survey. In addition, in October 1996, FAO granted a technical cooperation program (TCP) to assist the
Government in preparing detailed design and tender documents for the civil works to be implemented
during the first year. Polog Scheme was identified in February 1997 as next priority, when the additional
funding from the Government of Netherlands became available. Japan PHRD Grant is currently
financing additional preparation for the first year implementation. The preparation of the tender
documents for the civil works for the first six months of implementation has been completed.
3.37   The draft Water Law had its first reading in the Parliament in May 1997. This law would
provide a framework under which the participatory irrigation management would be introduced through
water user associations. The Government has already established beneficiary groups and tentatively
identified four water user groups which would be developed into the formal WUA under the Project upon
the ratification of the law. The law would also provide legal ground for the WMOs to be consolidated to
the public enterprise as a first step to streamline the water management. No major obstacles for the
ratification of the law are expected and the adaption of the law is anticipated by October 1997. The law
has completed its second reading before parliament, and adoption of the law by the parliament is a
condition for loan and credit effectiveness. The bylaw of PWME and any regulations adopted under the
Water Law would be sent to the Bank for review and comments prior to adoption.
K. PARTICIPATION
3.38   Under the Project, beneficiaries (water users) would directly participate in the Project, mainly
through the WUAs, as the beneficiary participation is considered as the single most important element in
achievement of a sound and sustainable irrigation sector. Unfortunately, the participatory experience
gained under the former Yugoslav Republic, which was not necessarily based on the voluntary and self-
selection, proved inefficient and ineffective and there remains a residual prejudice and skepticism to this
principle. It is for this reason that the Project is planning its participatory initiatives on a pilot basis.
This approach would allow annual evaluation of performance to feed back in next year's program. In
particular, participation would be achieved on three fronts through (a) beneficiary (farmer) groups to be
established within the Project Area as a prelude to WUAs; (b) WUAs; and (c) self-help rehabilitation
program in Bregalnica.
3.39   Beneficiary Groups: As a first step toward the full participation through WUAs, beneficiary
groups of farmers have been organized in Tikves and Bregalnica. Additional groups would be organized
shortly at the Polog scheme. These groups were the first contact point with farmers for the Project
discussions during the appraisal. These groups would eventually have two roles (a) to provide
3Irrigation Development and Water Resources Review, FAO/CP, 1994



- 25 -
information and suggestions to project staff and WMOs; and (b) to disseminate information about the
Project and its plan to the wider public. The groups would be consulted on the following two topics: (a)
proposals on rehabilitation programs; and (b) water user association proposals.
3.40   WUAs: WUAs would be the main vehicles for participation by farmers/irrigators in the Project.
The WUAs would have the following two main functions: (a) to take over responsibility for operation
and maintenance of selected irrigation facilities from WMOs; and (b) to work with the WMOs during the
rehabilitation process, and afterwards toward better management of main facilities. Under a pilot
program, seven WUAs would be established and take over operational responsibilities for tertiary canals
or pipelines as a first step, and would participate in further responsibilities such as taking over the
operational responsibilities for secondary canals, and participating in the main system management by
WMOs. One WUA area has been identified in order to ensure the quick start of the pilot WUA program,
and the legal documents requires the establishment of four WUAs in Bregalnica and Tikves within a year
and three WUAs in Polog within two years from the loan and credit effectiveness.
3.41   Self-Help Rehabilitation Pilot Program: Under this program, farmers in Bregalnica Scheme
would be directly involved in the rehabilitation by contributing labor to undertake simple repairs and
replacement of elements of the distribution system while the project would finance necessary materials
and training. The planning, design, and implementation process would be closely monitored and guided
by Bregalnica Kocani WMO (para. 3.21 (c), Attachment lB of Annex B).
L. ENVIRONMENT
3.42   The Project has been screened and classified as category B in accordance with, the Bank's
Operational Directives. The environmental impact from the Project is expected to be minimal, as it
would rehabilitate the existing irrigation schemes which are currently in use.  No alterations to the
catchment areas or to the dams are envisaged under the Project.
3.43   A possible impact could be due to the increase in the use of fertilizer and chemicals from
restoration of the higher level of crop production from the current low level; however, pollution is not
expected to be significant, as more scientific and economic farming practices with lower inputs are
anticipated in the future. No major pollution due to the irrigated agriculture have been reported in the
past. Technical training to municipality-level agriculture extension officers and research grant would be
provided under the on-going Private Farmer Support Project as well as technical advice on relevant
topics such as efficient application of fertilizers and integrated pest management. Nonetheless,
assurances have been obtained that the water quality will be monitored prior to the start of the Project
and during the project implementation at: (a) system intake at the reservoir; (b) selected points in the
primary drains; and (c) at a location in the river down stream of the scheme. The proposed terms of
reference for environmental monitoring is attached as Attachment VI to Annex B. Submission to the
Bank of an environmental evaluation describing general environmental conditions including the current
quality of water is a condition for effectiveness.
3.44   The Project would have a positive environmental impact, as it would increase the efficiency of
use of irrigation water, resulting in the substantial reduction of water loss and run-off of fertilizer and
pesticides.  In particular, in Bregalnica, a pilot program is planned (para. 3.21 d) to demonstrate



- 26 -
irrigation methods to improve water use efficiency and encourage crop diversification from rice, which is
the most water demanding crop.
3.45   While the overall quality of the irrigation water in the proposed schemes is good in terms of total
dissolved matter, acidity, and dissolved oxygen levels, algae problem is encountered in several canals in
Tikves and Bregalnica schemes during summer time. A technical study would be undertaken under the
Project to resolve the problem.
M. INTERNATIONAL WATERWAYS
3.46   The three irrigation schemes for Tikves, Bregalnica, and Polog lie in the Vardar River basin.
The Vardar river is an international waterway within the meaning of the Bank's Operational Policy 7.50,
having tributaries flowing in from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) and Greece, and flowing
from the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia into Greece. An international agreement on the
Vardar River Basin dated June 18, 1959 (which the Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia and Government of Greece confirmed on September 13, 1995) requires notification of
Greece about projects concerning water use on this international waterway. Accordingly, the Ministry of
External Affairs of the Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia informed its Greek
counterpart, by letters dated December 12, 1996, for Tikves and Bregalnica and May 19, 1997 for Polog
of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's intention to rehabilitate these irrigation systems.
Greece has not yet given any response to the letters. There are no existing agreements on the waterway
with an upper riparian of a tributary which flows into the Vardar River, the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (FRY). The Project falls within the exception to notification under the Bank's Operational
Policies with respect to notification of the FRY for the following reasons: (i) the Project would only
finance the rehabilitation of on-going schemes; (ii) Tikves and Bregalnica Schemes are located on
tributaries of the Vardar river which flow into the river, downstream from the tributary flowing into the
river from FRY, and Polog Scheme is located on the Vardar River upstream from the tributary flowing
from FRY; thus the rehabilitation activities would have no adverse effect on the quantity or quality of
water flows to FRY and would not be adversely affected by FRY's possible water use.
N. DAM SAFETY
3.47   The irrigation systems to be rehabilitated under the Project are dependent for their supplies on
three dams, Tikves, Kalimanci, and Mavrovo. All the three dams have also hydropower generation
functions. Electropanstavo, a state power company, is responsible for the O&M and safety monitoring of
Tikves and Mavrovo dams. The O&M of the Kalimanci dam is the responsibility of the WMO
Bregalnica since the releases from the reservoir are made in accordance with the irrigation demands;
power being secondary; and the University of Skopje carries out safety monitoring. An international dam
specialist evaluated the safety monitoring procedures and the O&M of the Tikves and Kalimanci dams
and appurtenant structures, during the project preparation, and found these to be satisfactory. The
specialist agreed with the project proposals for carrying out a few repair works at both Tikves and
Kalimanci Dams (paras 3.18 and 3.19). These works are neither substantial nor of high hazard category
to warrant the appointment of an independent panel of experts. Based on the specialist's
recommendation, two sub-components (a) evaluation of the maximum probable floods at these two dams



- 27 -
to check the sufficiency of the spillway capacity (para 3.22 c), and (b) a study to explore an alternative
alignment for the inlet portion of the irrigation intake tunnel (para 3.22 d) are included under the
technical studies.
3.48    The appraisal mission examined the latest safety monitoring report for the Mavrovo dam in
Polog Scheme, prepared by Globochitsa (civil wing of Electropanstavo), and noticed the high phreatic
line in the downstream shell under the full reservoir condition. At the request of the Electropanstavo in
1994, the Faculty of Civil Engineering of the University of Skopje, carried out an evaluation of the safety
of the downstream shell under the high phreatic line when the factors of safety were found to be
relatively low. Electropanstavo intends to carry out investigations for a detailed study of the situation.
The safety of the Mavrovo dam is also to be evaluated under the "Power Systems Improvement Project"
proposed by the Government to the Bank for funding. Mavrovo reservoir is the largest in the country
and its Vrutok power plant, which operates under a high head, has a vital role in meeting the peak loads.
The safety of the Mavrovo dam and the need for any remedial measures to lower the phreatic line is,
therefore, being considered in detail under the proposed power project. In any event, assurances have
been obtained that the Government will ensure that all the dams and reservoirs supplying water to the
project are maintained and inspected periodically in accordance with sound engineering practices
acceptable to the Bank.
0. COST RECOVERY
3.49   Current Cost Recovery in the Project Area: Most of WMOs in the proposed Project Areas
have difficult financial problems due to the vicious cycle of deferred maintenance and low cost recovery
(para. 3.2). On an average, the cost recovery rate has been decreased from 88 percent in 1990 to 35
percent in 1995. Interviews with farmers revealed that many water users are not paying their dues
because of the following reasons: (a) unaffordably high charges; (b) unreliable water delivery in terms
of timing and quantity; and (c) lack of farming income due to the marketing problem. However, there is
a substantial regional difference in the current cost recovery level. In Tikves, thanks to the recovery of
wine-industries, the cost recovery rate in 1996 increased to more than 50 percent. In Bregalnica, cost
recovery rate dropped to the minimum in the last five years, of less than 30 percent, reflecting the
collapse of the market for rice and delay in farmers' crop diversification. In Polog, the cost recovery rate
has decreased to about 50 percent during the 1980s, then further decreased to 30 percent in Gostivar and
45 percent in Tetovo in 1996.
3.50   Target O&M Cost Recovery under the Project: Under the Project, full cost recovery for
operation and maintenance is envisaged. The primary mechanism for achieving this goal would be: (a)
rehabilitation of the irrigation infrastructure to ensure the water delivery; and (b) introduction of efficient
irrigation management through participation of WUAs and restructuring of WMOs. However, the
following five-year target for full O&M recovery is anticipated considering (a) time required to complete
rehabilitation and redevelop markets; and (b) regional differences. Assurances have been obtained that
the figures shown in Table 3.4 form an agreed target for the cost recovery rate.



- 28 -
Table 3.4    Target Cost Recovery Rate for O&M Cost
Target Rate (%)
Year        Tikves  Bregalnica and Polog
1998                50          35
1999               70           50
000                80          70
2001                90          80
002 and onwards    90          90
3.51   Capital Cost Recovery: While the current laws provide the basis for the capital cost recovery
through amortization (depreciation) of capital assets (typically 2 percent of the investment cost per year),
no capital cost recovery is envisaged during the first two years of the Project, as it would be simply
unrealistic to expect capital cost recovery under the current low irrigation ratio and low recovery rate for
the operational and maintenance cost. Later, it has been tentatively agreed that two percent of the
rehabilitation cost would be annually charged to water users, but this issue would be examined further at
the mid-term review (para. 4.6) and the strategy revised, if necessary.
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.1    The key elements of the Project Implementation Plan would be setting up competent
management organizations for execution, supervision, monitoring, and control of operations, as detailed
below. The implementation activities for the various components have been identified in detail. The
Annex B (Project Implementation Plan) sets out details for project implementation.
A. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.2    Overall Project Implementation: The Department of Water Economy (DWE) of the MAFWE
would be responsible for the implementation of the project. The DWE has formed a Project
Management Team (PMT) headed by a Project Director to implement the various components of the
project. In this task, PMT would be assisted by the participating WMOs (para. 4.5) which are managing
the different sections of the three schemes, as well as by the WlAs to be formed under the project. The
PMT would select consulting firm(s) to carry out the engineering and management of contracts for civil
works, assist in procurement, guide and control several technical studies, and implement institutional
development programs.
4.3    Project Management Team (PMT): The PMT is essential for the efficient implementation of
the project and coordinate project implementation activities. The PMT would be responsible for
(a) civil works implementation, including overseeing the planning and designs and providing
decisions to the design and management consultant, direct responsibility for procurement
and contracting, and supervision of works with the assistance of consultant, WMOs, and
WUAs;



- 29 -
(b) pursuing the studies for technical problems and improvement of water use by use of
consultants;
(c) formulation of programs and pursuing the implementation of the institutional development
pertaining to WUAs and WMOs; and
(d) financial management of the project, including the preparation and submission of withdrawal
applications, liaison with the Bank including reporting to the Bank.
4.4    Staff of PMT: In order to assure strong and competent project management, the Government
will ensure that the PMT will be organized, adequately staffed, and will continue to employ professional
staff and Project Manager acceptable to the Bank. A total of 30 man/months of international consultants
would be recruited to assist the PMT staff in areas of rehabilitation planning, procurement, financial
management, and monitoring for the first three years of implementation. The director of PMT has been
appointed with key staff satisfactory to the Bank.
4.5    Participating WMOs: Four main WMOs would be selected to participate in the Project. Their
tasks would include: (a) providing assistance to the PMT in the planning, design and supervision of the
rehabilitation; (b) monitoring the irrigation water quality (para 3.43), preparing an annual irrigation
report (para 4.10); (c) assuming the principal responsibilities for implementation of the pilot programs;
and (d) providing financial and accounting information to the PMT. Tikvesko Pole and Bregalnica
Kocani WMOs have been selected to represent Tikves and Bregalnica schemes respectively, and
Gostivar and Tetovo WMOs from Polog Scheme. The Project would finance US$500,000 of incremental
operational cost to these four participating WMOs in total over the entire implementation period.
Bregalnica Kocani WMO would also be responsible for implementation of the pilot self-help
rehabilitation program and pilot improved on-farm irrigation management (para 3.21). The functions
and responsibility of each of these WMOs for the project implementation would be stipulated formally in
an implementation agreement between each participating WMO and MAFWE and in a format acceptable
to the Bank, prior to loan and credit effectiveness. Their responsibilities for the project implementation
would be taken over by the PWME once these WMOs are consolidated.
B. PROJECT PHASING
4.6    The implementation of the project components is planned in a five-year time-frame with two
phases (Phase I: year 1 and 2, Phase II: year 3 to 5, para 4 of Annex B), considering that the
rehabilitation work on the canals would be mainly conducted when the weather permits construction
operations and the canals are not running, which limits the working period to about two months in
October and November, and another two months in March, April and May. A comprehensive mid-term
review is planned between these two phases to fully assess the progress of the project, particularly the
outcome of several pilot programs. If these pilot programs are considered successful, a strategy to
disseminate these pilot programs across the Project Area would be formulated, and the detailed plan on
the technical assistance for the second phase would be formulated. As the country's water sector and
agriculture sector are still in transition, this mid-term review would provide a valuable opportunity to
reassess the sector issues and update the project benefits and risks. A mid-term review will be carried
out by the Bank and the Government jointly no later than December 31, 1999 and the results of the
review will determine the course of implementation of the remaining work under the project.



-30-
C. SUPERVISION, MONITORING, AND REPORTING
4.7    Supervision: Given the pilot and experimental nature of several critical components, the
project would require intense follow up by the Bank supervision missions during the first two years of
implementation. The Bank would undertake regular supervision and policy dialogue, field visits, and
spot checks of rehabilitation works and development of WUAs. The supervision plan, attached as
ANNEX F, provides details on the planned supervision issues for the Project. The Project launching
mission would take place in October 1997 to assess the PMT strength, review the first year annual plan,
and assist PMT in preparing Terms of Reference for several technical studies to be implemented during
the first year. In addition, the launching mission would conduct a workshop to strengthen and review the
procedures for procurement and disbursement. Subsequently, three Bank missions per calendar year
would be conducted in 1998 and 1999, including a mid-term review.
4.8    Monitoring of Project Implementation: PMT would establish the types of information to be
available to management for monitoring, and the procedures for its transmission from the information
collection point to the PMT. A management information system would be established and implemented
within the PMT to cover the progress and problems in execution of civil works (to reach PMT from
management/design consultant as well as from WMOs), of Technical Studies (to reach PMT directly
from the respective consultant for the studies), and of institutional development (to reach PMT from
WMOs). PMT would submit to Department of Water Economy the information collected in a suitable
form to permit an evaluation of the status of project implementation.
4.9    Key Performance Indicators: The project is expected to generate the following outcomes: (a)
physical improvement of infrastructure through rehabilitation, (b) improved income of farning families,
(c) improved management of irrigation systems, and (d) improved sustainability of the irrigation
systems. Assusrances have been obtained that separate key indicators and other qualitative issues for
each of these project outcomes will be used to monitor the actual impacts of the Project, as shown in
Table D of Annex B.
4.10   Annual Reports: The PMT will prepare and submit to the Bank annual reports no later than
November 15 of each year. The report would contain the following three sections: (a) Annual Progress
Report; (b) Annual Work Plan for the Project; and (c) Annual Irrigation Reports for the Project Area.
The details of the contents of each section are described in Annex B.
4.11   Quarterly Reports: In order to assure timely reporting to the Bank, assurances have been
obtained that the PMT would submit quarterly progress reports on the progress and execution of the
project in a fortnat agreeable to the Bank (refer para 21 of Annex B for an outline). Quarterly Reports
would include the assessment of the selected indicators covering project inputs and outputs and would be
split into sections suitably to provide the updated information on project implementation:
D. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
4.12   MAFWE will maintain accounting procedures acceptable to the Bank, and that independent
auditors, acceptable to the Bank, would undertake an annual audit of the Project Account, which will be
compiled by the PMT. Detailed accounts will be kept for each project component and its sub-
components. The accounts will also reflect the status of payment against each contract; utilization of the



- 31 -
Special Account (SA) and replenishments made by the Bank; and sources of funding used. Copies of the
audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of the country's fiscal year.
The audit report will cover both the compiled account of expenditure incurred during the FY as well as
the SOEs used for withdrawals from the SA.
4.13   In addition, assurances have been obtained that the participating WMOs will submit an annual
audit report within six months from the end of each fiscal year to ensure sound financial management
during project implementation.
5.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1    The primary project benefits would be (a) increased agricultural production and the
corresponding increase in incomes of farming families through the restoration and/or improvement of
irrigation services; and (b) increase in the efficiency and sustainability of irrigation schemes through
introduction of institutional reform including development of water user associations (WUAs) and
restructuring of water management organizations (WMOs). In addition, the project would encourage
farmers to economize the use of water through the enforcement of an appropriate, irrigation water tariff.
The detailed Project impact is described in the Annex D, Economic and Financial Analysis.
5.2    Project Economic Analysis: An economic analysis was conducted separately for each scheme
in detail. Costs for economic analysis include the full economic cost of rehabilitation works, the cost of
design and supervision, and the estimated incremental operation and maintenance charges. The financial
price of the agricultural products are converted into the economic prices based on farm gate parity prices.
Considering the current marketing difficulties and time required for private farmers to update the
irrigation equipment, conservative assumptions on the expected rate of the increase in the irrigation areas
(10 years from the start of the project) and eventual irrigation percentage (reinstatement of 1990 level),
are used. Under these assumptions, the estimated economic rate of return (ERR) would be 39 percent for
Tikves, 21 percent for Bregalnica, and 36 percent for Polog. The ERR of the Project is 29 percent. Net
Present Value of investment in Tikves, Bregalnica, and Polog estimated at 12 percent is US$23.5; 3.6;
and 14.8 million, respectively. The total NPV for the project is US$ 37.8 million including the cost of
the technical assistance.
5.3    Economic Benefit: The Project's economic benefits accrue through the following three
channels: (a) return of the currently unirrigated and poorly irrigated land to full irrigation through the
rehabilitation of deteriorated systems (Channel 1); (b) prevention of future decline (or collapse) of
irrigation areas through improvement in the physical infrastructure (Channel 2); and (c) conversion to
higher crops due to the availability and reliability of irrigation water (Channel 3). Channel 1 would be
the most important factor4: it would account for about 40 percent, 50 percent and 30 percent of the
expected economic benefit respectively in Tikves, Bregalnica and Polog. Channel 2 would be
The Project would improve irrigation in about 6,000 hectares of land, and fully restore irrigation in about 20,000
hectares.



- 32 -
particularly important in Tikves accounting for about 30 percent of the total economic benefit, as the
system is expected to further deteriorate fairly quickly without the project. Channel 3 would also
account for the large part of the economic benefit, particularly in Bregalnica and Polog: respectively
about 30 percent, 43 percent and 69 percent of the expected economic benefit would accrued the crop
conversion in Tikves, Bregalnica and Polog. However, assumptions used for the crop conversion are
considered to be quite reasonable. In Tikves, with irrigation, certain areas would be converted to grapes,
which has already captured market. In Bregalnica, crop conversion from rice to other crops such as
fodder and vegetables are already on-going as price support for rice has been discontinued. In Polog,
rapid conversion from rain-fed wheat to irrigated alfalfa and maize for livestock purposes is expected
with the rehabilitation of irrigation scheme.
5.4    Sensitivity Analysis: A sensitivity analysis was conducted based on the two main types of risks
identified below: (a) marketing (no conversion to higher crops in Bregalnica, half of the conversion in
Polog and Tikves); (b) delay in the implementation due to difficulties in organizing WUAs and/or
restructuring WMOs. The analysis revealed that the Bregalnica would be sensitive to these two risks:
ERR would drop from 21 to 13 percent under either marketing difficulties or two years delay in
implementation, still making the investment marginally economic, while Tikves and Polog scheme are
less sensitive to these two risks (refer Table I of Annex D for details).
5.5   Impact on Farming Families: The project is expected to benefit about 20,000 small private
farming families typically with 0.5 hectare to 2 hectares of irrigated land. Major impact of the project on
the families would be increase in the farming income, which would be realized through (a) increase in
farming opportunity (requirement) for resumed irrigation, and (b) increase in labor productivity. The
additional labor requirement is not expected to be a major constraint, though most of the farming
families are part-timers with a non-farming job for at least one family member. The average return per
labor day would increase from Denar 968 to 1,138, an 18 percent increase. Upon the completion of
rehabilitation, the annual income increase of the farming families would be (a) about Denar 10,000, for
small farmers with an average of 0.7 hectare of irrigated land; (b) about Denar 32,000, for medium size
farming families with 1.8 hectare of holdings; and (c) about Denar 27,000 for large farming families with
4.0 hectare of lands. The impact on mid-scale farms would be the most significant, as these farms
would benefit from intensification. Smaller farms are often part-time farmers and are often facing
constraint of labor availability. Larger farms often have smaller portion of high value crops such as
vegetables. On average, the family incomes would increase by about 50 percent.
5.6    With the increase in the farming income, the affordability of the water tariff would increase. The
ratio of water fee to the gross farming income would be reduced from 16 to 12 percent in Tikves and
from 11-13 to 9-10 percent in Bregalnica. Interviews with farmers confirmed that these figures are
closer to an acceptable level established at about 8 percent under SIZ. It is hoped that the figure would
fall into the acceptable range with an introduction of more efficient water management.
B. RISKS
5.7    Risks to the Achievement of Project Objectives: The project would pursue several initiatives for
institutional reform aiming to increase sustainability of rehabilitated irrigation canals in the midst of the
low regional economy and the country's transitional policies. In this context, the following issues are



- 33 -
identified as risks to the project objectives: (a) market constraints; (b) low cost recovery; (c) delay in the
reform of the WMOs; and (d) delay in the establishment of WUAs.
(a) Market Constraints: Market constraints are currently the dominant limiting factor in agricultural
production. The success of the project would depend on the farmers' positive response to the
rehabilitated irrigation, and farmers would not regain full irrigation unless they resume confidence in
the marketing. While Macedonian agricultural products are generally competitive and used to have a
steady market share in former Yugoslav countries and some western European countries, most of its
market was lost in 1991 due to the outburst of hostilities among neighboring countries and the
subsequent embargo imposed by the United Nations. Nonetheless, the project appears to be highly
economic under a conservative assumption that the market would be fully restored in 10 years (para
5.2). It should also be noted that farmers are now required to market their product on their own in
the light of the collapse of agro-kombinats. Under the ongoing Private Farmer Support Project, a
component to improve agricultural market information will be implemented to develop a market
news service and facilitate the flow of information to farmers.
(b) Low Cost Recovery: Low cost recovery from the water users would directly jeopardize the
sustainability of rehabilitated canals. While the project envisages the full recovery of operational
costs within three years, it would be essential to provide reliable water services to water user
associations as a first step in order to break the vicious cycle of low cost recovery, deferred
maintenance, and system deterioration. In the meantime, several initiatives, such as: introduction of
participatory irrigation management and reform of WMOs, would be undertaken under the project to
increase the efficiency of management and reduce the effective cost.   During the project
implementation, several key indicators such as (a) irrigation cost; and (b) cost recovery rate would be
closely monitored to detect the early warnings.
(c) Delay in the WMO reform: Success of the project would also depend on the provision of an
affordably priced reliable supply of irrigation water. As the process of restructuring the water sector
has just started, and the planning is still to be completed, there is a risk that the process of reform
may stall or deviate from its best course, and pose a serious threat to the project. Close monitoring
of WMO performance and continuous policy dialogue during an annual review would be a key to
mitigate the risk.
(d) Farmers' willingness to participate in the Project and Delay in WUA establishment: While the
farmers' attitude toward the project, assessed during the project preparation, was favorable, a certain
degree of skepticism is observed among farmers towards cooperative ventures which is symbolic of
the experience gained during the socialist regime. This may handicap the performance of the WUAs,
despite the counter-measures, such as training in group formulation, leadership and communication
skills which would be provided under the project. It should also be noted that many farmers are
part-time, with full-time off-farm employment for at least one of the family members. This would
cause a limited interest in participation in activities to be implemented under the project, such as
training, and attending/organizing WUA meetings.  This is one of the reasons why the WUA
program is commencing in a pilot manner in order to assess the farmers' capacity and willingness to
participate in irrigation management.



- 34 -
5.8    Risks to the achievement of project output: Availability of the counterpart funds is identified to
be the most serious risk to project implementation. The project would require about US$ 8.0 million of
counterpart funds over five years. To mitigate the risks, at an annual review, the next year's plan would
be prepared, and the amount of the counterpart funds for the next year would be calculated and submitted
to the Government.



- 35 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1 Assurances have been obtained that the Government would:
(a) implement measures to improve cost recovery rates for O&M in accordance with the
following schedule: (i) for Tikves, 50 percent by December 31, 1998, 70 percent by
December 31, 1999, 80 percent by December 31, 2000, and greater than 90 percent
by December 31, 2001 and onwards; (ii) for Polog and Bregalnica, 35 percent by
December 31, 1998, 50 percent by December 31, 1999, 70 percent by December 31,
2000, 80 percent by December 31, 2001, and greater than 90 percent by December
31, 2002 and onwards.(para. 3.50).
(b) ensure that all dams and reservoirs supplying water to the project are maintained and
inspected periodically in accordance with sound engineering practices acceptable to
the Bank (para. 3.48).
(c) ensure that quality of river water will be monitored periodically at agreed locations,
and will maintain priority of water for meeting the irrigation demands (para. 3.43).
(d) would be adequately staffed and would continue to employ professional staff and
Project Director that would be acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.4).
(e) would be audited annually by an auditor acceptable to the Bank and an audit report
would be sent to the Bank within the six months from the end of each fiscal year
(paras 4.12).
(f) ensure that the audit reports of the participating WMOs would be sent to the Bank
within the six months from the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.13).
(g) ensure that the PMT would prepare and forward a quarterly progress report on
behalf of the Government (para. 4.1 1).
(h) would ensure that the agreement between the MAFWE and Electrostovanstrovo over
the release of the water from Mavrovo Dam will be duly complied with (para. 3.10)
(i) a draft of any bylaws to the new Water Law to the Bank for review and comments
prior to its adoption (para. 3.37)
(j) establish two WUAs within each of Tikves and Bregalnica Scheme within a year
from project effectiveness, and three WUAs within Polog Scheme within two years
from project effectiveness (para. 3.40)
6.2   The following conditions of Board presentation have been fulfilled:



- 36-
(a) Preparation of tender documents for the civil works to be implemented during the
first six months (para. 3.36).
(b) Establishment of PMT with adequate staff acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.4)
(c) Identification of area for at least one WUA (para. 3.40)
(d) Completion of the second reading of new Water Law by the Parliament (para. 3.37)
6.3   The following are conditions for the Loan/Credit effectiveness:
(a) Satisfactory completion of an environmental evaluation describing general
environmental conditions including the current quality of water (para. 3.43).
(b) Execution of an implementation agreement between the WMOs and the MAFWE
(para. 4.5).
(c) Adoption of the new Water Law by the Parliament (para. 3.37)
6.4    With above agreement and conditions, the proposed Project would be suitable for a Credit of
SDR 3.7 million (US$ 5.0 million equivalent) at standard terms of 35 years maturity including 10 years
of grace, and a Loan of DM $13.5 million (US$ 7.5 million equivalent) at 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, at the standard interest rate for LIBOR based Deutche Mark single currency loans.



Annex A
Page I of 8
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND
RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DETAILED INFORMATION ON TIKVES, BREGALNICA, AND POLOG IRRIGATION SCHEMES
I. Introduction
1.    Three of the larger schemes with high priory for rehabilitation, Tikves, Bregalnica, and Polog,
have been selected for the Project. This annex gives general information on these three irrigation
schemes.
II. General Description of Tikves Scheme
2.    Climate and Agriculture. The Tikves climate is semi-arid, transitional between Mediterranean
and Continental with average annual rainfall between 450 and 500 mm, and generally there is a moisture
deficit of around 485 mm over the period April to September; irrigation is essential for some crops,
beneficial for all and a pre-requisite to competitive economic agriculture. The major crop is vines, and in
1990 nearly 50 percent of the service area was planted to vines and orchards, the remainder being a
mixture of cereals, vegetable, fodder and industrial crops. Since 1990 the irrigated area has declined
considerably from 87 percent to 57 percent of the service area.
3.    Land Ownership. Tikves scheme is fairly equally divided between private farmers and agro-
kombinats, with 44 and 56 percent of the service area respectively, this is reflected similarly in each
WMO service area. There are eight agro-kombinats in Tikves, with the largest, Tikves AK, being a very
successful wine producer with a major share of the domestic market as well as being the leading wine
exporter in the country. The number of private farmers participating in Tikves scheme is estimated at
8,700 individual households (11,641 recorded water users) with an average irrigated area of 0.7 ha.
Most private farmers are orientated to grape production, this crop not only occupying the larger part of
their land, but also being by far the most profitable.
4.    The Scheme and Water Resources. Tikves scheme was constructed around 1970s with a
service area of 13,000 ha divided between left and right bank commands. The water supply is drawn
from the Tikves dam on the River Cma, a major tributary of the Vardar. The dam is the highest in the
country (113.5 m), the reservoir has an active storage of 240 million m3 of which 90 million m3 is
reserved for irrigation on a first priority basis, the remainder being used for power generation, and even
in the drought period of the 1990s there was sufficient water to meet the full irrigation demand.
5.    Irrigation System and Condition. The main elements of the Tikves irrigation system are: the
dam, outlet tunnel (2 km), joint canal (9.7 km) leading to the division into the left main canal (38.3 km
and 3,035 ha) and right main canal (59.9 km, including branches, 9,950 ha). On the main canals there
are 5 tunnels, 20 siphons, 15 aqueducts and 2 control structures. The distribution system is pressurised
pipes, generally at 400 m spacing with hydrants at 100 m intervals providing between 2.5 and 10.0
atmospheres for sprinkler irrigation. Over the majority (81 percent) of the area gravity supplies the
pressure, but for 2,440 ha (19 percent) there are three pumping stations to supplement the pressure.
6.    The Tikves dam is generally in a good condition, but there is damage to the approach section to
the outlet tunnel. The concrete lining of the main canals is in a very poor condition; the main canal
structures are generally better, having utilised higher grade concrete, but there is concern for the steel



Annex A
Page 2 of 8
lining of the siphons; the distribution networks are generally in a good condition with only isolated
deficiencies. The main attention therefore centres on the poor condition of the main canal lining which
is attributed to (a) the generally poor quality initial construction, and (b) inadequate maintenance over
the last decade. The overall condition of the main canals is summarised as follows:
Table A: Physical Condition of Tikves Main Canals
Description of Condition                    %
In need of only routine maintenance                             6
Extensive cracks and minor damage, joints poor                  31
Minor Damages with elements so damaged as to require replacement  51
All elements sufficiently damaged or missing to warrant complete  12
replacement
7.     Consequences of Continued Deterioration. The condition of the canal lining has two physical
results: (a) there are significant water losses through seepage, and (b) because of the increased
roughness the carrying capacity is reduced. The net effect on irrigation is that an adequate and reliable
supply can no longer be provided, particularly for the lower part of the system. Without intervention
this deterioration is expected to continue so that within 5 years the situation will be 70 percent
unirrigated, 15 percent inadequately irrigated, whilst the upper 15 percent of the system will remain
unaffected with good irrigation.
111. General Description of Bregalnica Scheme
8.     Agriculture. The Bregalnica climate is semi-arid Continental with an average annual rainfall
around 500 mm, and generally there is a moisture deficit of around 475 mm over the period April to
September; irrigation is essential for some crops, beneficial for all and a pre-requisite to competitive
economic agriculture. In the past the major crop was rice, grown in the area served by canals, mostly in
Kocani, the remainder being a mixture of cereals, vegetable, fodder and industrial crops. However,
since 1990 the irrigated area has declined considerably from 59 percent to 26 percent of the service area
in 1996, in particular the rice area has declined following removal of the price support. Rice has a very
high water requirement so the reduction in this crop will permit a substantial increase in other crops in
the future.
9.     Land Ownership. Bregalnica scheme is fairly equally divided between private farmers and
agro-kombinats, with 52 and 48 percent of the service area respectively, however, there are large
difference in these proportions in different parts of the scheme. In the left and upper right bank areas,
managed by Kocani and Osojnica WMOs, there is preponderance of private farmers with 80 and 92
percent of the area respectively. In the lower right bank the position is reversed, with only 39 and 29
percent of the area occupied by private farmers in Stip and Ovce Pole respectively. There are seventeen
agro-kombinats in Bregalnica, most are small in size, many with less that 100 ha, but there are five large
AKs with over 1,000 ha which are in the lower right bank area. The number of private farmers
participating in Bregalnica scheme is estimated at 11,000 individual households (14,815 recorded water
users) with an average irrigated area of 1.2 ha. Rice production was the occupation of the majority of
private farmers, mostly concentrated in Kocani and Osojnica, but this is less significant with the recent
reduction in the area planted to rice.



Annex A
Page 3 of 8
10.   The Scheme and Water Resources. Bregalnica scheme was constructed around 1970s with a
service area of 25,510 ha divided between left and right bank commands. The water supply is drawn
from the Kalimanci dam on the Bregalnica River, a tributary of the Vardar. At 95 m height Kalimanci is
one of the major dams in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the reservoir has a storage of 127
million m3 wholly allocated to irrigation, although power is generated by the irrigation releases.
Releases from the dam are supplemented by side streams; however, there were severe water shortages in
1993 and 1994.
11.   Irrigation System and Condition. The main elements of the Bregalnica irrigation system are:
the dam with a release through the powerhouse into the river bed, the Istibanija diversion structure 11
km downstream of the dam, left main canal (35.680 km and 3,174 ha) and right main canal (98.585 km
and 22,336 ha). On the main canals there are 26 tunnels, 18 siphons and 31 aqueducts. In addition to
the main Istbanija structure there are 19 permanent diversion structures (16 on side streams and 3 on the
lower R. Bregalnica) and several temporary diversions. There is a mixed distribution system. Over the
majority of the area, 16,379 ha, there is a pressure pipe distribution system to service overhead
irrigation, of this area 10,436 ha are pressurised by gravity, the remainder requiring booster pumps. In
this area there are generally pressurised pipes at 400 m spacing with hydrants at 100 m intervals
providing between 2.5 and 10.0 atmospheres for sprinkler irrigation. There are 8,551 ha (about 35
percent of the service area) served by open gravity canals, of which about 5,000 ha are precast concrete
canalets", the remainder earth canals. A small area is served by portable pumps and pipelines.
12.   Kalimanci dam is generally in a good condition, but needs repairs to the embankment and the
gallery. The concrete lining of the main canals is in a poor condition, but better than Tikves due to the
higher initial build quality. The main canal structures are generally sound, having utilised higher grade
concrete, but there is concern for the steel lining of the siphons. The pipe distribution networks are
generally in a good condition, with only isolated deficiencies, but the canalets are badly damaged. The
main attention therefore centres on the poor condition of the main canal lining and the canalet. The
overall condition of the main canals is summarised in the Table B below:
Table B: Physical Condition of Bregalnica Main Canals
In need of only routine maintenance                                 14
Extensive cracks and minor damage, joints poor                      50
Minor damages with elements so damaged as to require replacement   36
All elements sufficiently damaged or missing to wanrant complete replacement  0
13.    Consequences of Continued Deterioration. The condition of the canal lining has two physical
results: (a) there are significant water losses through seepage, and (b) because of the increased
roughness the carrying capacity is reduced. The net effect on irrigation is that an adequate and reliable
supply can no longer be provided, particularly for the lower part of the system. Without intervention
this deterioration is expected to continue so that, on Tikves, within 5 years the situation will be 70
percent unirrigated, 15 percent inadequately irrigated, whilst the upper 15 percent of the system will be
unaffected with good irrigation. Deterioration will be slower in Bregalnica, but within 10 years the
situation will be 80 percent unirrigated, 10 percent inadequately irrigated, whilst the upper 10 percent of
the system will be unaffected with good irrigation.



Annex A
Page 4 of 8
IV. General Description of Polog Scheme
14.    Agriculture. The Polog climate is continental Mediterranean with an average annual rainfall of
around 800 mm, and generally there is a moisture deficit of around 300 mm over the period of May to
September; irrigation is essential for all crops (except wheat) and a pre-requisite for competitive
economic agriculture. The main crops in the area are maize with intercrop of beans, fodder crops, wheat,
orchards, and vegetables. With the deterioration of the irrigation systems, the wheat area has increased
but it will decline when good supplies are restored. Vegetable area has decreased with the loss of
market. The irrigated area decreased from 53 percent in 1990 to 47 percent in 1996. Irrigation will pick
up fast after rehabilitation as farmers, each having livestock, are keen to increase the fodder yields (5
times) with irrigation. The cropping pattern is oriented to meeting livestock requirements, the livestock
products of the area having been relatively less affected by the market shocks. There is also good
potential of the area supplying animal feed to other areas in the country and for export.
15.    Land Ownership. Unlike Tikves and Bregalnica, most of the area under the scheme belongs to
private farmers. Only 3 agro-kombinats own 725 ha in Tetovo service area (8 percent of total). In
Gostivar, all land is private. The number of private farm households is about 5,800 in Tetovo and 4,500
in Gostivar (respectively 7,783 and 6,002 water users). However, the rehabilitation would concern only
parts of the service areas and the number of beneficiaries of project intervention has been estimated at
about 4,500 households, including 2,400 in Tetovo and 2,100 in Gostivar. The average area with
irrigation facility per household is about 1.6 ha. This is bigger than in the other two schemes but the size
of the households in the Albanian areas are also bigger than elsewhere.
16.    The Scheme and Water Resources. The Polog scheme was initially constructed in 1961 -1964
for 9,350 ha, to which 4,000 ha were added during rehabilitation in 1984. The Polog scheme service
area of 13,350 ha receives water by diversions from the Vardar river through four intakes, two of which
do not have diversion structures. The scheme is located in an area where Vardar descends from the hills
and the river discharge is insignificant in the irrigation period from May 15 to September 15. Therefore,
the irrigation supplies are completely dependent on the releases from the Mavrovo Reservoir (277
million m3 live capacity), which was constructed in 1957 for irrigation and power generation.
17.    The Electric Power Company of Macedonia (ECM) maintains the Mavrovo dam and controls
the releases for power generation. Power generation at Mavrovo is vital for the country's grid
particularly during peak load, as the reservoir is the largest in the country for hydro-power generation.
During the irrigation season, the power plants are operated between 6 am to 10 pm with plant load
variation for peak load (7 to 8 am, 2 to 3 pm, and 9 to 10 pm), which could be two to four times the
average load. For the last ten years, the irrigation requirements have been low as only a fraction of the
irrigation system has been utilised due to the system deterioration. Releases from Mavrovo have
therefore been limited to this reduced demand during the irrigation season, and the variation of Vardar
supplies due to short duration peak loads has caused problems at the Polog intakes. With full
rehabilitation of the scheme, the total quantity of water to be released during the irrigation season and
the pattern of its release (low in May and June, high in July and August, and again low in September)
will need to be satisfied by the power releases. During appraisal, the ECM assured that it would be
possible to meet the irrigation requirements in full, as ECM will honour its agreement with the MAFWE
set out in the water license for the supply of water up to 13 m3/sec during the irrigation season, which is
the requirement of Polog and other irrigation schemes depending on Mavrovo water during the peak
irrigation demands of July and August. Since the reservoir is at maximum level at the beginning of
May, the pattern of use of water for irrigation and the daily release can be agreed in advance between
ECM and MAFWE. The inflow in the Mavrovo reservoir at 75 percent assurance is 205 million m3, out
of which it will be possible to supply the full irrigation requirement of about 70 million m3 with releases
according to the pattern of the irrigation demand. Releases for short duration peaking shall be in
addition to the irrigation demand.



Annex A
Page 5 of 8
18.   Irrigation System and Condition. The Polog scheme comprises (a) Banichko Pole canal 4.6
km long for a service area of 400 ha on the right bank of Vardar with intake on the river slightly
upstream of the junction of the Raven power station tailrace with the Vardar; (b) Gostivar canal 14.9 km
long for 4,300 ha on the left bank of Vardar, with intake at a diversion structure on the Vardar, about 1.5
km downstream of the junction of Raven tailrace; (c) Lom canal about 7 kms long with intake on the
Vardar about 10 km downstream of the Gostivar intake for providing irrigation water to about 1,100 ha
(within the command of Gostivar); and (d) Tetovo canal about 26 km long, with intake at a diversion
structure on the Vardar about 9 km downstream of the Lom canal intake for irrigating 9,200 ha on the
left bank of Vardar. Tetovo canal provides water to two pump stations; one on the right bank of Vardar
(5 pumps for 990 ha) and the other on the left bank (6 pumps for 1,100 ha). The Lom canal and Tetovo
canal have limited advantage from the dry season flows from the small tributaries of the Vardar. The
irrigation on the entire area of Polog scheme is carried out by furrows. Secondary pipelines for delivery
of water to the earthen unlined tertiaries exist in Gostivar area. In Banichko and Tetovo area, the
secondaries are open earthen canals which are partly lined, while tertiaries are invariably earthen
unlined ditches. The deterioration of the system can be briefly summarised as:
(a)The Banichko Pole main canal running along the contour on the hill sides has conveyance losses. It
shall be resectioned and lined in about 80 percent of its length. The secondary canals are in good
shape and farmers are conveying water to their field satisfactorily. No work is therefore proposed on
these canals.
(b)The Gostivar main canal was rehabilitated in 1986 and is in good shape, though maintenance could
have been better. The rehabilitation is proposed on the pipe network only, and meters will be
installed on all the pipe lines just after the turnouts to measure the water supplied. The estimates for
the network improvement include necessary changes for supply to the distribution pipes for the area
in the lower villages of about 1,100 ha, where network exists and where water is also received from
the Lom canal. The Lom canal was activated (the 1920 canal rehabilitated) by the farmers as water
could not reach their area from the pipe network due to various factors. The rehabilitation of this
portion of the network would be subject to further discussion with the farmers of the area and an
alternative rehabilitation technique to provide sufficient water for irrigation could be adopted within
the cost provided.
(c) The Tetovo main canal and its distribution system was rehabilitated in 1986 from the head to km
12.10 This system is in good shape but maintenance could have been better. Rest of the main canal
from km 12.10 to km 26.00 has broken lining and less capacity. The canal resectioning including
flattening of the canal side slopes and concrete lining with drainage, as adopted in the upper part, will
be carried out. The distribution system of this area will be rehabilitated in full as it has deteriorated
badly from being out of use. The two pumps in the left bank pump station have to be replaced and
repair of minor damages to the pump station and the two concrete lined secondary canals have to be
carried out.
19.   Consequence of Continued Deterioration. Without rehabilitation, the Banichko canal losses
will increase resulting in progressive reduction of the irrigated area. In addition, the stability of the canal
bank on the hill side slope would deteriorate resulting in frequent breaches and dislocation of irrigation.
Irrigation would reduce further from the current 40 percent to 30 percent. In the Gostivar area, unless
pipe network is rehabilitated, the breakdown of supply to the farmers will become more and more
frequent resulting in complete frustration of the farmers. The lower 14 km section of the Tetovo main
canal has not been able to carry the required supplies, the farmers not having received water for about
seven years. The earthen distribution system (some of which are concrete lined) are out of use, covered
with earth and vegetation. If rehabilitation is not carried out, the few farmers getting water now
(irrigation 24 percent in lower area) will also cease to get water.



Annex A
Page 6 of 8
V. Current Irrigation Management
20.   WMOs: There are three, four and two WMOs in Tikves, Bregalnica and Polog Schemes,
respectively. Irrigation scheme in Tikves is managed by three WMOs, Tikvesko Pole, Makaria and
Negotionko Pole. Tikvesko Pole, located in the upstream of the scheme and being in charge of a dam
and main canals, distributes irrigation water to other two WMOs, Makaria and Negotinsko as well as
4,342 farmers and 1 large and 4 small AKs in 1996. Makaria and Negotinsko Pole WMOs, serving
2,318 and 2,450 farmers respectively and I large AK in Makarija, I large and 3 small Aks in Negotinsko
Pole in 1996, manage only distribution system. Bregalnica scheme is managed by four WMOs,
Bregalnicako Pole, Osojnica, Stip and Ovceko Pole. Bregalnicako Pole WMO maintain Kalimanci Dam
and primary canals, whereas the other three WMOs are responsible for the secondary and distribution
irrigation networks. Polog Scheme is managed by Gostivar and Tetovo WMOs. Table C shows the
overview on the operation of Tikvesko Pole, Bregalnica Kocani, Tetovo and Gostivar WMOs. The
accounts in Bregalnica and Tetovo show a current deficit due to a decrease of the due water fees
(principal source of income) as a result of a decrease in irrigated areas over the past years. This is
compensated by a decrease in actual maintenance work and provision for maintenance. However, at the
same time, the incomes as shown in the accounts are not actually entirely received as part of the due
water fee is not paid (see following Table). Therefore, in 1996, Bregalnica and Tetovo WMOs increased
their account receivable by about 50 percent and 64 percent respectively (data was not available in
Tikves). A major part of these WMOs' assets are fixed assets (i.e. canals and reservoirs) and account
receivable. As cash and near cash asset would cover only one third of its short-term debt obligation,
these WMOs may have serious liquidity crisis if it has further difficulties in collection.
21.   Table D shows the overview on the recent cost recovery rate of six WMOs. It clearly shows the
downward trend of cost recovery rate starting in early 1 990s. While the cost recovery rate in Tikves is
expected to increase in 1996 with the redevelopment of wine export, that in Bregalnica would further
decrease to a lower level in 1996, as farmers cultivating rice, main irrigated crop of the Bregalnica
region until a progressive conversion to other products, continues to experience marketing difficulties.
In Tetovo WMO, the cost recovery rate appears higher, benefiting from the rehabilitation, in 1986, of a
part of the scheme where both irrigated areas and payment rate by farmers reach satisfactory levels.



Annex A
Page 7 of 8
Table C: Overview of Operation of the Four Participating WMOs
Tikvesko Pole   |   Bregalnica   T    Gostivar    T Polog - Tetovo
1995              1996             1996              1996
No. of Employees (Dec.31, 1996)
Operations                                                94               170               48               156
Technical Staff                                           22               38                10               25
Accounting/Financial                                       9                21                7                 6
Other Administrative                                      10                14                4                 9
Total                                                    135              243                69               196
Plus Seasonal                                             20                16              40                45
No. of water users
Private Farmers                                         4,342            7,884            7,300            11,300
Operating Agro-Kombinats                                    5                6                0                 3
Command Area (ha)                                       6,169            8,447            6,350             7,000
rrigated Area (ha)                                     3,779             3,903            1,489             5,000
h Irrigated                                               61                46               23                71
Staffing Ratios
Operations Staffper 1, 000 ha Constructed                 15                20                8               22
Operations Staffper 1, 000 ha Irrigated                   25               44                32               31
Total Staff per 1,000 ha Constructed                      22                29               11               28
Total Staff per 1,000 ha Irrigated                        36                62               46               39
Financial Statistics
Total Asset (US$ mil)                                   13.2             42.6               3.3             11.6
of which: fixed asset (%)                               75.3             93.5             93.1              86.6
accounts receivable (%)                        21.3               5.4              4.7              10.9
evenues (US$ mil)                            Avg. of 2 Years           I Year           I Year            I Yea
Total Annual Revenue                                    2.05             2.05             0.36               1.83
Cost Recovery (%/6)                                      85                51               71                68
Annual Increase in Account Receivable (%/6)               53                49                8                64
Annual Operating Costs, excluding Interest
and Barter (US$ mil)                                     1.16             2.45             0.52               1.95
of which: Depreciation (%)                              25.4                54               16                17
Operating Costs, excluding Interest and Barter
per Constructed ha (US$ '000)                           188.4           290.17            82.58    Not Applicable
perating Costs, excluding Interest and Barter
r Irrigated ha (US$ '000)                            307.55           628.00           352.19    Not Applicable
perating Costs, excluding Interest, Barter and
Depreciation per Constructed ha (US$ '000)             140.49           132.39            69.37    Not Applicable
perating Costs, excluding Interest, Barter and
Depreciation per Irrigated ha (US$ '000)               229.34           286.52           295.83    Not Applicable
nual Net Profit(loss) US$ mil.                       0.49            (0.44)           (0.15)            (0.22)
1 Year Change in Cash US$ mil.                           0.24             0.15             0.02              0.00
Notes: 1) Tikvesko Pole's financial numbers are average for a 2 year period. No closing was made for 1995
2) Only approximately 33 percent of Tetovo's revenues ($ 6 million ) are from irrigation activities.
Exchange Rate: $1.00 = 44 Denar
Table D: The Cost Recovery Rate of WMOs within the Project Area
(percent of O&M  Cost)
Negotino                                   88%    85%    83%    85%    77%    70%    40%
Kavadarci                                  88%         77%        63%         65%         40%        39%         31,/
Osojnica                                   87%         48%        48%         52%         10%        23%         21/
Bregalnica                                 88%         70%        65%         67%         31%        37%         46/
Tetovo                                     62%         61%        54%         58%         59%        55%         520/
Gostivar                                    n.a.        n.a.      51%         37%         35%        41%         410/
Average for the Six WMOs                   83%    68%    73%    73%    50%    53%    46%



Annex A
Page 8 of 8
VI. Project Beneficiaries
22.    Project Beneficiaries: Table E summarizes the beneficiaries of the Project. This section describes
the general characteristics of private farmers in the project area.
Table E: Project Beneficiaries
Scheme    | Private    Agro-Kombinats
Farmers
Tikves               8,700       8
Bregalnica 1)       11,000       17
Polog               4,500        3
Note: 1) Whole Scheme 
23.    Private Farmers: Main characteristics of the private farmers are (a) their small holding sizes
(average 1.5 to 2 ha, including non-irrigable land) and (b) their dependence on off-farm employment. The
majority (50 to 60 percent in Tikves and Bregalnica and up to 90 percent in Polog) of private farmer house-
holds in the project area have at least one member engaged in off-farm employment and are often referred
to as part-time farmers earning farming income as a supplement. The term "part-timers" can be misleadng,
however, as many households, especially in the Polog area, still have one or more other household
members working full-time on the farm. The household size varies between two and about ten members,
the smaller households usually being nuclear families, the larger ones are extended families (three
generations) or joint families (two or more brothers) or a combination of these two.
24.    Agro-Kombinats (AKs) which currently have land under the proposed schemes (in Tikves: 7,323
ha; Bregalnica: 12,128 ha; Polog: 725 ha) will also benefit from the project. However, the Government
intends to privatize part of these state lands and lease the remaining state lands to privatized AKs. In order
to become profitable enterprises, many AKs will need to retrench staff, this process has already started.
Considering these reforms in the near future, a realistic number of beneficiaries for the present AK lands is
difficult to assess.
25.    Poverty status: In none of the three schemes is there real poverty in the sense of families not
being able to meet the most basic needs. In fact, it appears that the majorty of beneficiaries are relatively
well-off, considering the current assets of most families including proper housing, TV, washing machine
and often a tractor (even if outdated). However, under the current unemployment condition, and the lack of
agricultural markets, together with termination of the subsidies for farm inputs, cash incomes of many
farning families have been severely reduced. Many of the farm holdings presently operate at subsistence
level, with the deteriorated irrigation service is partly responsible. In particular the families without off-
farm income had to adjust their spending pattern and claim to be unable to replace any farm equipment or
household assets in case they break down. It is expected, however, that the marketing conditions would
improve in the near future; the lifting of the trade embargos against neighboring countries and the recent
agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic countries on agricultural export together with the gradual
improvement of the local private marketing channels are likely to improve the market situation. However,
farmers may have some difficulties in accepting the new marketing mechanisms with reduced subsidies
and less protection. This may mean that small farmers may need to substantially improve their
productivity; otherwise, these farmers would have to remain dependant on off-farm income.



Annex B
Page I
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND
RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
CONTENTS
I.   PROJECT
H.  IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY
III. PROJECT COST
IV.  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENT
V.   DISBURSEMENT
VI.  MONITORING AND REPORTING
ATTACHMENTS:
ATTACHMENT I: DESCRIPTION OF INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
I-A: PILOT WATER USER ASSOCIATIONS SUB-COMPONENT
I-B: SELF-HELP REHABILITATION OF THE OPEN CANAL SYSTEM IN BREGALNICA
I-C: RESTRUCTURING THE WMOS
I-D: MODELING STUDY FOR WATER RESOURCE
I-E: PILOT WATER IMPROVED WATER MANAGEMENT
ATTACHMENT II: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE TECHNICAL STUDIES
1I-A: ALGAE PROBLEM
Il-B: INSPECTION OF SIPHONS
II-C: ESTIMATION OF FLOODS
II-D: TIKVES TUNNEL RE-ALIGNMENT
ATTACHMENT III: DETAILED COST TABLES
ATTACHMENT IV: DETAILED PROCUREMENT PLAN
ATTACHMENT V: SUMMARY OF INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT, TECHNICAL STUDIES, AND
PMT SUPPORT (BASE COST)
ATTACHMENT VI: TERMS OF REFERENCE ON ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING



Annex B
Page 2
I. Project
1.    Project Objectives: The primary objectives of the Project are: (a) to enable the private farmers
to regain the agricultural potential of their lands by rehabilitating three high priority irrigation systems;
and (b) to initiate structural reform in the irrigation sub-sector to complement the ongoing agricultural
sector reform. The structural reform would include restructuring the operation and maintenance (O&M)
practices of the three irrigation schemes through more efficient and cost-effective methods based on user
participation and reform of the present Water Management Organization (WMO). Farmers would be
encouraged through pilot trials to adopt more advanced technology for irrigated crops and to diversify
into the crops requiring less water still having good marketing opportunities.
2.    Project Components: The project would have the following main components: (i) the
rehabilitation of the irrigation systems of the Tikves, Bregalnica and Polog Schemes; (ii) an Institutional
Development program; (iii) a Technical Studies Program; (iv) Project Administration and Monitoring;
and (v) Impelementation Support for WMOs.
II. Implementation Summary
3.    The project would be implemented over a period of five years (October 1997 to 2002). The
rehabilitation work on the canals would be possible only when the weather permits construction
operations and the canals are empty. This limits the working period to about two months in April and
May, and another two months in October and November. A two-phase approach is proposed. A very
important mid-term review would assess the project progress, particularly on the three pilot initiatives
(development of WUAs, improved irrigation techniques and self-help rehabilitation) for full-scale
dissemination across the entire Project Area during the second phase.
4.    Phase I and II respectively contain the following components:
(a) Phase I:
Rehabilitation of Main Canals and Structures in three Irrigation Systems.
All of Institutional Development under Component 2
All of Technical Studies under Component 3
(b) Phase II:
Rehabilitation of Network Structures in Irrigation Systems
Dissemination of Pilot Programs across the Project Area
During the first phase, the rehabilitation would be focused on the repair of main structures such as main
canals and dams which would have immediate and major impact on the whole irrigation scheme.
During the second phase, then highly deteriorated secondary networks would be rehabilitated. This
approach would ensure the budget allocation to the main structures and allow sufficient time during the
implementation to identify the need for rehabilitation across the whole irrigation scheme including the
secondary networks. All of the pilot programs and technical studies would be completed during the
first phase. The outcome of these programs and studies would be reviewed and strategies for
dissemination across the Project Area would be developed during the mid-term review.



Annex B
Page 3
5.    Overall Project Implementation: The Department of Water Economy (DWE) of MAFWE
would have overall project implementation responsibility. The DWE would form a Project Management
Team (PMT) headed by a Project Manager to implement the various components of the project. In this
task, the PMT would be assisted by the participating WMOs (refer para. 8) which are managing the
different sections of the three schemes, as well as by the WUAs to be formed under the project. The
PMT would select consulting firm(s) which would assist it in (i) carrying out and preparing the
engineering and management of contracts for civil works; (ii) technical assistance support for the PMT;
(iii) implementing institutional development programs and (iv) , several technical studies. Table A
below illustrates the responsibilities of each institution during project implementation.
Table A. Implementation Responsibilities
1. Liaison with the Bank including submission of withdrawal applications
and progress reports                                             x
2. Execution of Civil Works component                                              _
(i) Preparation of detailed designs, and tender documentation for works  x  x     x
or goods
(ii) Coordination with WMO                                        x       x       x
(iii) Obtaining World Bank "no objection" of documents, where required    x
(iv) Issue of Tenders, receipt of bids, and evaluation of bids for contract  x  x
award
(v) Review of evaluation by Consultant including obtaining World Bank
"no objection," when required                                 x
(vi) Award of contract                                           x
(vii)Supervision of execution, quality control, verification of contractors
bills for payment (the PMT will issue detailed instruction. WMO will
place staff at disposal of consultant. WUA to assist in access and   x  x
quality control)
(viii)Payment to contractors, keeping accounts by categories of work, and
by contractors, and complete contract management              x
3. Execution of Technical Studies of component
(i) Finalizing invitation letter and TOR for procuring consultancy,
preparing short list                                          x
(ii) World Bank "no objection" of documents                      x
(iii)Monitoring progress on the execution of consultancy and providing   x        x|
assistance
(iv) Verification of consultant invoices and payments, including
disbursements from World Bank                                 x
4. Execution of Institutional District component                    x
6.    Project Management Team (PMT): The formation of the PMT is essential to efficiently
implement the project and coordinate project implementation activities. The PMT would be responsible
for:
(a) civil works implementation, including planning and designs, procurement and contracting,
and supervision of works;
(b) supervision of the pilot studies and the technical studies;



Annex B
Page 4
(c) formulation of programs and implementation of the institutional development pertaining to
WUAs and WMOs; and financial management of the project, including withdrawal of funds
from, and reporting to, the Bank.
7.    Staff of the PMT: The PMT staff would include a Project Director, assistant director, an
Accountant and a Procurement Officer with the necessary support staff and office equipment. A total of
30 man/months of expatriate consultants would be recruited to assist and train the PMT staff in areas of
rehabilitation planning, procurement, financial management, and monitoring for the first three years of
implementation. The responsibilities of the PMT staff are discussed below.
(a) The Project Director, working under the overall guidance of the Director of the Department
of Water Economy (DWE) of MAFWE would be responsible for all project implementation
and coordination of all project implementation activities. He/she would ensure that the
project is implemented in accordance with the schedules, plans and procedures agreed with
the World Bank.
(b) Assistant Project Director, under the supervision of the Project Director, would be
responsible for management and supervision of the pilot programmes and technical studies,
and would act for the Project Manager in his/her absence.
(c) The Procurement Officer, under the supervision of the Project Manager, would be
responsible for (i) preparing detailed procurement plans based on the overall project
procurement plan; (ii) implementing these plans; (iii) preparing bidding documents; (iv)
setting up evaluation committees; (v) organizing public bid openings; (vi) coordinating
evaluation of bids and awarding of contracts; and (vii) coordinating supervision of contract
performance. The Procurement Officer will also prepare periodic progress reports on
procurement.
(d) The Accountant, under the supervision of the Project Manager, would be responsible for (i)
keeping all project accounts accurate and up- to-date; (ii) helping the Project Manager
manage the special account; (iii) preparing withdrawal applications; (iv) payments to
suppliers, contractors and consultants; and (v) preparing periodic accounting reports.
The PMT staff would be provided with the necessary training in project management, procurement and
disbursements.
8.    Participating WMOs: Four WMOs would participate in the Project. Their tasks would
include: (a) providing assistance to the PMT in the planning and design of the rehabilitation; (b)
monitoring the irrigation water quality, preparing an annual irrigation report; and (c) assuming the
principal responsibilities for implementation of the pilot programmes. The Project would finance a total
of US$500,000 of incremental operational cost to the participating WMOs over the entire
implementation period. Tikvesko Pole and Bregalnica Kocani WMOs have so far been selected to
represent Tikves and Bregalnica schemes respectively. Bregalnica Kocani WMO would also be
responsible for implementation of the pilot self-help rehabilitation program and pilot improved on-farm
irrigation management. Two WMOs, Tetovo and Gostivar would represent Polog Scheme. The
responsibilities of the WMO would be defined and agreed by a separate Project Implementation
Agreement between the Government and each participating WMO.



Annex B
Page 5
III. Project Cost
9.    The proposed project is estimated to cost approximately US$32.5 million based on late-1996
prices, including physical and price contingencies. Detailed cost tables are provided as Attachment III to
this Annex.
IV. Procurement Arrangements
10.   Procurement: The implementation of the project would require the procurement of civil
works, goods, and consultants. The procurement of goods and works under the project would be
conducted in accordance with the Bank's guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits," January 1996. The procurement of consultants would follow the Bank's guidelines, "Selection
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," January 1997. A General Procurement Notice has been
published in the Development Business in July 1997.  All of the two civil works contracts to be
financed under the retroactive financing (CWC 101, 201) would be procured by NCB in compliance
with the Bank procedures. If the Government of Netherlands cofinances the Project through the Trust
Fund administered by the Bank, Bank procurement rules would apply to the items to be financed by the
Government of Netherlands.
11.   The responsibility for procurement would rest with the PMT. The progress on procurement
would be reported in a suitable format to the Bank in the quarterly reports. The Design and Contract
Supervision Consultant would assist the PMT in the preparation of the procurement documents and
processing of the offers received. The PMT would have a full-time position for procurement activities.
The PMT would also have an expatriate specialist in procurement. The expatriate would provide on-the-
job training to the PMT full-time procurement staff. In addition, the PMT procurement staff would be
trained both in Bank-organized seminar and, a project start-up workshop would be held in October 1997.
12.   The procurement arrangements are summarized in Table B, and briefly described below, and a
detailed project procurement plan is shown in Attachment IV.



Annex B
Page 6
Table B: Procurement Procedures (US$ Million)
ICB        NCB      Other      NBF       Total
A. Works                                 4.06     12.34     0.0V      8.20/'     24.69
(3.05)    (8.44)    (0.06)    (0.00)    (11.55)
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (6.34)     (6.34)
B. Goods
Field and Office Equipment                                           0.(8'      0.18
(0.00)    (0.00)
(0. 18    (0.18)
Equipment, Materials and Machinery                         1l.6'     0.28        1.44
(0.80)    (0.00)     (0.80)
(0.00)    (0.28)     (0.28)
Total Goods                                                                       1.62
(0.80)
(0.46)
C. Vehicles                                                 0.16/6    0.08'6      0.24
(0.16)    (0.00)     (0.16)
(0.00)    (0.08)     (0.08)
D. Consultants' Services
Design and Construction Supervision.                                  0.82'7     0.82
(0.00)    (0.00)
(0.00)    (0.00)
Technical Assistance                                                 2.93/8      2.93
(0.00)    (0.00)
(2.93)    (2.93)
Training                                                             0.21'9      0.21
(0.00)    (0.00)
(0.21)    (0.21)
Total Consultants' Services                                                       3.96
(0.00)
(3.13)
E. PMT National Staff                                                0.85')      0.85
(0.00)    (0.00)
(0.85)    (0.85)
F. Incremental O&M Cost                                               1.12/1"     1.12
(0.00)    (0.00)
Total                                    4.06     12.34      1.40     14.67      32.46
(3.05)    (8.44)    (1.02)    (0.00)    (12.50)
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (11.98)    (11.98)
Notes:  The first and second figures in parentheses in the total column represent disbursement by the Bank and the
Government of Netherlands respectively.
NBF: Non-Bank Financed
1/ to be carried out by national shopping.
2/ exclusively financed by the Government of Netherlands: of which: $8.17 million, $ 0.03 million to be carried out
through national competitive bidding, and national shopping respectively
3/ international shopping (I contract) entirely financed by the Government of Netherlands
4/ of which $1.04 million to be procured under International Shopping Procedures (2 contracts for construction
materials (cement), ($0.25 million), 2 for hydrant and valves ($0.36 million), 2 for measurement equipment ($ 0.43
million),)), and of which $ 0.12 million to be procured under national shopping procedures (2 contracts for gravel and
sand, I contract for minor construction equipment)
5/ specialized equipment to be used for T/A, exclusively financed by the Government of Netherlands: 4 contracts for
other small specialized equipment ($ 0.24 million) to be procured by Internationl Shopping, 3 for small equipment
estimated at $40,000 in total would be procured through National Shopping.
6/ to be procured under International Shopping.
7/ Direct Contract Based on Single Source Procurement for the first phase exclusively financed by the government.
8,9/ Entirely financed by the Government of Netherlands: Consultant services for advisors, national and international
experts to be procured under the QCBS procedures in accordance with World Bank Guidelines
10/ Entirely financed by the Government of Netherlands: Selection of individual national experts based on the
qualifications.
11/ Entirely financed by the Government of Netherlands: of which: US$ 0.50 million paid to the four participating
WMOs for incremental staff cost (paid against invoices), US$ 0.56 million paid to cover the implementation support
for WMO for project management (utilities, translation, office rent) against invoices, US$ 0.06 million for Project
Audit to be selected under the Least Cost Procedures in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines.



Annex B
Page 7
(a)    Civil Works: The contracts estimated to cost above US$ 1,000,000 each would be awarded under
ICB; those below US$1,000,000 each under NCB. Most of the civil works under the Project
would be carried out by contracts procured under NCB, due to the geographically and timely
scatted nature of the required works: the execution of civil works, other than repair of siphons,
would be permissible only under favorable weather conditions (i.e. no frost) during the non-
irrigation season between September and late March/early April.  In general, major
rehabilitation in main canals would be started in early September to assure its completion by the
next irrigation season and the minor repairs and rehabilitation of network irrigation would be
started in October to feed back the result of the previous irrigation season. By nature,
rehabilitation works of irrigation canals are simple and labor intensive, and require contractors
to conduct full survey of existing irrigation systems before participating in bidding; therefore,
local contractors would have a clear advantage. Furthermore, there are a large numbers of
private contractors (4 large ones employing 2,000 to 5,000 staffs and 28 medium ones with 100
to 900 employees), providing competitive environment which makes foreign bidders difficult to
compete with. The total amount of NCB contracts for the Bank-financing would be US$ 12.34
million. For the repairs to the siphons and major rehabilitation works would be procured
through three contracts under ICB. Small works estimated to cost US$30,000 would be
awarded on the basis of quotations from at least three domestic contractors. The total amount of
such contracts would not exceed US$ 60,000.
(b)   Goods and Vehicles: The Project would require the procurement of goods comprising vehicles,
office equipment, measurement equipment, and irrigation hardware such as hydrants, valves,
pipes. The procedures to be used for procurement would be (i) ICB for a single contract above
US$250,000; (ii) International Shopping (IS) for a single contract below US$250,000, subject to
the condition that the total of such contracts would not exceed US$1,040,000 for goods and
$160,000 for vehicles, and (iii) National Shopping (NS) for a single contract below US$ 50,000
subject to the condition that the total of such contract would not exceed US$ 120,000. For IS, at
least three quotations from different suppliers in at least two countries would be obtained.
(c)    Consultants ' Services: The consultancy contracts would include the services of (i) a consortium
of international and national firms to provide the international technical assistance for the PMT
and for the pilot studies and trials, as well as the technical studies, and (ii) national consultants
to prepare the designs and tender documents for civil works, and to supervise construction. The
contracts for the international consortium ((i) above), to be financed by the Government of
Netherlands, would be concluded on the basis of Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), and
individual experts needed for the project would be selected through comparison of
qualifications. National consultants for design and supervision ((ii) above), to be financed by
the Government, would be selected through qualifications.
(d)    Other Expenditure Items: Incremental O&M Cost, to be financed by the Government of
Netherlands, would be paid to participating WMOs to cover incremental staff and
administration cost incurred by the Project. Each participating WMO will provide a list of staff
designated to the Project. Translation and transportation services would be procured locally
through shopping procedures. Any other expenditures such as utilities, telephone, and office
space will be paid against invoices.
13.   Bank Review.  The Borrower would use Bank's Standard bidding documents for ICB
procurement. The NCB document would be based on the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (small
works), and would be submitted to the Bank in draft prior to its use. For consultant assignment for
which QCBS would be used, Bank's standard forms of contract would be used. The documents for the



Annex B
Page 8
ICB contracts would be subject to prior Bank review. First two NCB contracts using retroactive
financing, the first small work and the first IS contract would be subject to prior Bank review. All other
contracts procurement documents and procedures would be subject to Bank ex-post review on random
basis. All QCBS consultant contracts would be subject to Bank's prior review.
V.    DISBURSEMENT
14.   The proposed Bank loan and credit in agrregated amount of US$12.5 million equivalent would
be disbursed over a period of six years, and the expected closing date would be September 30, 2004.
While there is no experience yet to form a disbursement profile for the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia, it is estimated that six years would be sufficient to implement the project, given the nature
and size of the project and the past experience in the the Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia.
15.   The proceeds of the loan and credit would be disbursed as shown in Table 3-3 of the SAR. The
target disbursement profile for the Bank is shown in the Table C below. This target profile would be
annually updated depending on the actual progress of the project.
Table C: Target Disbursement Profile (US$ '000)
,,, ..                     .    2  yr... . .r  4.     . . .....                t W
...................................................
Project Special Account     500       250        -        -   (-)500   (-)250       0
Goods                       300       300     100        0        0               700
Civil Works                 500      2500    3100    2500    1500       1700   11800
Total                      1300      3050    3200    2500    1000       1450   12500
16.   Disbursements would be made upon receipt by the Bank of fully documented applications
except for: (i) contracts for works valued at less than US$1,000,000; (ii) contracts with consulting firms
valued at less than US$100,000; and (iii) contracts with individual consultants valued at less than
US$50,000; contracts for goods costing less than US$200,000. Disbursement for these items would be
made against statements of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be
retained by the PMT and made available to the Bank during supervision.
17.   Special Account: To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish two
separate Special Accounts (SA): one for the IDA credit and the other for the IBRD loan at the central
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would make an authorized allocation
of US$500,000 for the special account for the IDA credit. Initially, the allocation would be limited to
US$250,000 until disbursement has reached SDR 0.75 million, then the full authorized allocation could
be claimed. The Bank would also make an authorized allocation of DM I million for the IBRD loan.
The KDA c edit would be drawn completely before the IBRD loan starts being withdrawn. Applications
for the replenishment of these SAs would be submitted monthly or when 20 percent of the initial deposit
has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment applications would be supported by the
necessary documentation, bank statement of the special account, a reconciliation bank statement of the
special account against Bank records.



Annex B
Page 9
VI. Monitoring and Reporting
18.   Monitoring of Project Implementation: The PMT would establish the types of information to
be available to management for monitoring, and the procedures for its transmission from the information
collection point to the PMT. A management information system would be established and implemented
within the PMT to cover the progress and problems in execution of civil works (to reach the PMT from
management/design consultant as well as from WMOs), of Technical Studies (to reach the PMT directly
from the respective consultant for the studies), and of institutional development (to reach the PMT from
WMOs). The PMT would submit to Water Economy Department the information collected in a suitable
form to permit an evaluation of the status of project implementation.
19.   Key Impact Indicators: Table D sets out proposed impact indicators. The project is expected
to generate the following outcomes: (a) physical improvement of infrastructure through rehabilitation;
(b) improved income of farming families; (c) improved management of irrigation systems; and (d)
improved sustainability of the irrigation systems, and separate key indicators and other qualitative issues
are proposed for each of these project outcomes to monitor the actual impact of the Project.
20.    Annual Reports: The PMT will prepare and submit to the Bank annual reports no later than
March 15 of each year. The report would contain the following three sections: (a) Annual Progress
Report; (b) Annual Work Plan for the Project; and (c) Annual Irrigation Reports for the Project Area.
(a)    Annual Progress Report would be prepared by the PMT and contain the progress of each
component, (particularly system rehabilitation and institutional development components), and
key indicators;
(b)    The Annual Work Plan would be prepared by the PMT and contain the impact of the project
using key performance indicators set out in the previous para, a plan for the implementation,
updated disbursement profile, and target key performance indicators during the coming year.
Budgets, which would be based on the appraisal estimates, would be amended where necessary
to reflect changes in costs and scope of institutional development component.
(c)    Annual Irrigation Report: As a part of the Annual Report, each participating WMO would
prepare an annual irrigation report providing information on the volume (where measurement
can be made) of water supplied to each section of the three schemes, and the crops irrigated
together with information on rainfall occurring in the cropping season and compare performance
in the areas rehabilitated with areas not rehabilitated. The report also contains a business plan
for the next irrigation season such as projected irrigated area and cost, and target cost recovery.
This report would be a basis for the update of economic analysis. The report also contain the
results of monitoring water quality to show any impact of irrigation on environment at specified
locations during the irrigation season.



Annex B
Page 10
TABLE D. PROPOSED IMPACT INDICATORS
.  utm..........:y .....                                     ..... u   ......~ s~    t.bPo us.....
(a) Physical Rehabilitation of Infrastructure  Canals Rehabilitated
kilometers rehabilitated
hectares of command areas benefited from rehabilitation
(b) Improved income of farming families    Areas irrigated
A crop survey would be conducted annually to assess the
direct overall impact of the Project (areas, crops, and
yields).
Farming income
A sample household survey (about 100 families within the
Project Area) would be annually conducted to monitor the
(c) Improved Management of Irrigation      project's household level impact, which would include the
Systems                                 impact on women farmers.
Operating Cost
WMOs' account would be annually audited to confirm the
improvement in efficiency using several financial ratios and
overall operating cost per hectare.
Implementation Status of Restructuring of WMOs
The status of restructuring of WMOs would be duly
monitored during the implementation. The focus should be
on several key indicators (e.g. number of staff, ratio of
administrative staff to artisans) and qualitative analysis (e.g.
(d) Improved sustainability of the         status of government supervision, capacity  of new
rehabilitated canals                   management, etc.)
Cost Recovery Rate and Collection Rate
These indicators are reviewed annually. The target cost
recovery rate for each implementation year would be
incorporated into the covenant framework. The full cost
recovery  (O&M) is envisaged  after three years of
implementation (currently 30 percent).
Rehabilitated Canals Transferred to WUAs
*Status of transferred canals would be monitored through
the supervision mission to assess the Government's
commitment.
*Farmers' willingness and capacities.



Annex B
Page I 1
21.   Quarterly Reports: In order to assure timely reporting to the Bank, the PMT would submit
quarterly progress reports on the progress and execution of the project in a format agreeable to the Bank.
Quarterly Reports would include the assessment of the following indicators and would be split into
sections to provide the updated information on project implementation:
(a) Financial
Amount Disbursed by financier
Updated Budget
(b) System Rehabilitation
List of Civil Works Contracts describing amount, progress, expected completion date
List of Other Contracts
(c) Institutional Development
A. WUA Pilot Program (data disaggregated by gender wherever applicable)
List of Major Activities (training, workshops, WUA meetings)
Number of Members
Payment of Member Dues
B. WMO Restructuring Support
List of Major WMO Activities (water delivery)
List of Major Restructuring Activities (status of consolidation)
Cost Recovery
(d) Technical Studies and Project Administration:
Progress on studies and training
(e) Procurement
For equipment/material, consultants' services, and training, status and timing of all
pending procurement actions; status of aggregated limits on specified methods of
procurement.
22.   Accounts and Audits: The MAFWE will maintain accounting procedures acceptable to the
Bank, and independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank/IDA, would undertake an annual audit of the
Project Account, which would be compiled by the PMT. Detailed accounts will be kept for each project
component and its sub-components. The accounts will also reflect the status of payment against each
contract; utilization of the Special Account (SA) and replenishments made by the Bank; and sources of
funding used. Copies of the audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of
the country's fiscal year. The audit report will cover both the compiled account of expenditure incurred
during the FY as well as the SOEs used for withdrawals from the SA.
23.   In addition, the participating WMOs will submit an annual audit report within six months from
the end of each fiscal year to ensure the financial strength during the project implementation.



Annex B
Page 12
Attachment I - A
PILOT WATER USERS ASSOCIATIONS SUB-COMPONENT
Background
1.    Tertiary irrigation distribution is currently managed by distribution level WMOs. In a move
towards sustainability the Government intends to introduce participatory management, through Water
Users Associations, which would eventually take over responsibility for tertiary irrigation management.
This process will be pioneered in the country by the project's Pilot Water Users Component. Whilst the
field interviews conducted during project preparation have confirmed the farmers' interest and
willingness to take over the tertiary systems, they have also revealed prejudices and skepticism of the
association approach towards participatory management, which indicates that the pilot WUAs would
need support in the form of training and supervision during the pilot phase.
Objectives
2.    There are four main objectives of this project component. Firstly, to develop the most
appropriate format for WUAs in the country, to test the levels of competence in irrigation and
association management amongst farmers, and to test the advantages of handing over various
responsibilities to farmers, particularly the financial benefits and the effect on cost recovery. Secondly,
to serve as a vehicle for improving the dialogue between WMOs and farmers, to develop the most
effective working arrangements between the WMOs and WUAs and to increase their involvement in
overall system management. Thirdly, to provide a basis for improving tertiary and field-level irrigation
management through improved water control and measurement, trials, training and demonstrations.
Fourthly, when tested, possibly modified and found successful, the pilot WUAs would act as examples
and demonstrations in support of an expansion of WUAs and improved water management across the
project area.
3.    There would be seven pilot WUAs established by the project. These would be two in areas
managed by Tikvesko Pole WMO and another two in areas managed by Bregalnica-Kocani WMO in
Bregalnica scheme, each comprising clearly identifiable hydraulic units such as tertiary pipelines or
canals. Of these, three WUAs, the two in Tikves and one in Bregalnica, would be in gravity pipe
distribution areas for sprinkler irrigation, each would cover about 200 ha. The fourth would be located
in the Bregalnica right bank area where the distribution system comprises open "canalets" and surface
irrigation is practiced, and the crops include rice. This WUA would have an additional role under the
project as it would be a key instrument in the pilot self-help rehabilitation of this area. In addition, three
WUAs would be established at Polog Scheme, one in Tetovo and two in Gostivar, these would be
identified during project implementation. If the pilot program is successful, the project would support
the expansion of WUAs across the Project Area.
4.    Under this WUA sub-component, there would be special attention to female farmers so that they
would be fully integrated into WUA activities with objectives of: (a) increasing agricultural production
through increased efficiency by improving women's potentials; and (b) ensuring the participation of
women in activities under the project. The main activities in this context would be gender awareness
raising among the PMT staff, participating WMOs staff, and WUA leaders.



Annex B
Page 13
Functions of WUAs
5.    In the first year of operation limited functions and responsibilities would be assigned to the
WUAs; WUA responsibilities could include establishing with the WMO the annual irrigation plan and
the detailed weekly scheduling and distribution of irrigation water, control of, and cooperation with
WMO for repair and maintenance of the distribution (tertiary) networks, collection of water fees from
farmers and payment to the WMO, negotiation and signature of agreements for supply of water with the
WMO, liaison on behalf of members with the WMO (for example on irrigation schedules). From the
second year, the functions of these WUAs would be progressively expanded following an annual review
of performance such as operation and maintenance of secondary canals.
Implementation Arrangements
6.    Four participating WMOs would be responsible for implementation of the Pilot WUA
programme. These are Tikvesko pole, Bregalnica - Kokani, and Gostivar and Tetovo WMOs in Polog
scheme.
7.    The pilot WUA locations would be jointly selected by MAFWE staff with the WMOs in
consultation with the respective Consultative Beneficiary Groups according to the following criteria:
willingness of farmers, hydraulically separate units, representative conditions (condition of the network,
soils and slope and cropping patterns), adequate access and canal slope for measurement and control of
water. The four WUAs for Tikves and Bregalnica have been provisionally located by the WMOs.
S.    It is proposed that the Pilot phase would occupy at least project years I and 2, including two full
irrigation seasons. The Pilot WUAs would be closely monitored during these first two years and
thoroughly evaluated after the second season. This evaluation would be conducted jointly by project
staff, WMOs and representatives of MAFWE. On the basis of the evaluation, a decision would be made
as to whether the pilot trials should be extended, or modified with redefinition of WUA roles and
procedures. When the trials have been found successful, a decision would be made on extension of the
programme. For the remainder of the project period the project would assist and support the Ministry in
establishing WUAs across the project area.
Project Inputs
9.    The project would (a) support the four participating WMOs with technical assistance, training
and study tours, equipment and incremental costs; and (b) fund training for the farmers and WUA
representatives.
10.   In the Pilot phase the project would provide 16 mm of technical assistance of a WUA/Water
Management Specialist to provide assistance and in-situ training to the WUA implementation staff in
the WMO. This on-the-job training would be supplemented by in-country training and overseas training
and study tours to enhance their skills in the fields of training, communication and participatory
processes, gender awareness training, technical skills including irrigation system management, irrigation
scheduling, field irrigation methods and computer applications. Language training would also be
provided so that staff can take advantage of the considerable body of WUA and irrigation management
knowledge available internationally. Details of the proposed training are given in Table A.3. A further
15 man/months (mm) would also be provided to assist the expansion of WUAs, and 2 mm from a gender
specialist to ensure appropriate female participation.
I.   Equipment would be provided under the project to support (i) the improvement of irrigation
management at the tertiary and field level; and ii) training materials. This would include the items listed



Annex B
Page 14
in Table A.2. As the task of creating, organizing and supporting WUAs is not a task currently within the
remit of the WMOs, the project would also fund the incremental salary and operating costs of the WUA
units within the four WMOs.
12.   Training of WUA representatives would be provided by the WMO staff and appropriate
institutions in the country in management, leadership and communication skills, bookkeeping and
financial management of associations, irrigation scheduling, repair and maintenance of irrigation
systems. Training of farmers would be provided by the WMO staff and appropriate institutions in the
country in field irrigation techniques, irrigation scheduling and appropriate agricultural topics. Special
attention would be paid to include women farmers in courses relevant to their tasks and interests.
Training would initially be provided for the small numbers involved in the four pilot WUAs, but
additional resources are allocated for the second phase programme to expand WUAs. For details of the
training programme refer to Table A.3.
13.   In addition, about $110,000 of funds would be reserved as contingencies for the second phase of
the program. The detailed budget for this contingencies would be developed during the mid-term
review.



Annex B
Page 15
Table A. I WUA Component Cost Estimate
raining, pilot phase               sum              95,95,680    Refer Table A. 3
raining, second phase               sum             104,320       104,320   Refer Table A. 3.
Equipment                            sum              50,000       50,000    Refer Table A. 2
echnical assistance, mm            33mm             20,000        660,000   Included in TA budget
ontingencies                                                      110,000
ncremental staff costs                                 0             0       Covered by Incremental O&M cost
Fotal                                                            1,020,000
Table A. 2 Equipment for Pilot WUA Component
z1m~er  yIt tn~e         Cass............
Irrigation/water management
Pipe water meter                           0                       0 Provided as part of rehabilitation
Miniature current meters                   3        1,000       3000 Measure canal flows
EC meter                                   3         200         600 Measure water/soil salinity
Pressure gauge                             3         250         750 Measure pipe pressure
Sprinkler sets                             4       2,500       10,000 Sufficient for 2.5 ha each for demo
Flexible pipe                              4        1,000       4,000 200 m each for demonstrations
Siphon pipes                             200           5        1000
Computer, printer, software                4        5,000     20,000 Irrigation scheduling/design
Level instrument (set)                     2        1,800       3,600
Training equipment
Video player and TV                        3        1000        3000
OHP and screen (sets)                      3         500        1500
Minor equipment & materials (set)          3         850        2,5501
[_otal Cost                                                       50,000L



Annex s
Page 16
Table A.3 Cost Estimate for WUA Training
A. PILOT PHASE
WMO staff      Irrigation management                      4                   1
Irrigation scheduling                     4                   1            -
Irrigation design                          4                  1            -
Field irrigation                           4                  1            -
Computer methods                           4                  1            -
Training for trainers            1         8        5         2        3,010        3,010
Communication skills             1         8        2         2        1,300        1,300
Irrigation management            1        4      15/30        3       30,000       30,000
Study tours                      2        5        10         3       10,000       25,000
WUA reps       Management                        2        12        1         5         380          760
Leadership                       2        12         1        5         380          760
Communication skills             2        12        1         5         380          760
Book keeping                     1         8        2         5          530         530
Irrigation scheduling            2         8        2         4         430          860
Irrigation maintenance           2         8        2         4         430          860
Ag ext. staff  Field irrigation                  1        4                   1            -            -
Irrigation scheduling            1        4                   1            -            -
Farmers        Field irrigation                  4       20         1         4         530        2,120
Irrigation scheduling            4       .20        1         4          530        2,120
Irrigation equip O&M             4       20         1         4          530        2,120
Agriculture topics               6        20        1         5          580        3,480
Unallocated                                                                                       22,000
Sub-total, Pilot Phase                                                                            95,680
B. SECOND PHASE
WUA reps       Management                        9       25         2         5        1,380       12,420
Leadership                       9       25         2         5        1,380       12,420
Communication skills             9        25        1         5          705        6,345
Book keeping                     6       25         2         5        1,380        8,280
Irrigation scheduling            6       25         2         4        1,280        7,680
Irrigation maintenance           6        25        2         4        1,280        7,680
Farmers        Field irrigation                  9       25         1         5         705        6,345
Irrigation scheduling            9       25         1         5          705        6,345
Irrigation equip O&M             9       25         1         5          705        6,345
Agriculture topics              12        25        1         5          705        8,460
Unallocated                                                                                        22,000
Sub-total, Second Phase                                                                          104,320
TOTAL COST                                                                                        160,000
Provider codes as follows:
0 Local arrangement for individual language tuition
I Technical assistance team, training provided on-the-job at not additional cost
2 Macedonian source in Skopje (to be identified)
3 Intemational institution/study tour
4 WUA unit of WMO, minor costs of materials and transport only required
5 Macedonian source, incl. Extension services, in the field
Basis of cost estimate                                                 Cost, $
A. training in Skopje                    travel to Skopje                    20 (return)
per diem in Skopje                 40 (nights)
Resource person                   250 (including use of venue)
B. training in field by WMO staff         travel to office                   15 (daily)
per diem in field office           10 (day only)
C training in field by outside specialist  Resource person                  50 (incl. Ag Ext. services)
D all courses in field                  Misc. materials                     30 (per course)



Annex B
Page 17
Attachment I - B
SELF-HELP REHABILITATION OF THE OPEN CANAL SYSTEM IN BREGALNICA
(BREGALNICA KOCANI POLE)
Rationale
1.    The general project rehabilitation strategy is to concentrate on repair of the seriously
deteriorated main canals, the secondary systems generally being in a fairly sound condition. In
Bregalnica, however, the second key to successful rehabilitation, and restoration of an efficient
irrigation service, lies in improving the open canal systems in Kocani area. In the past, this area has
been mainly devoted to rice, with about 5000 ha in 1990, out of the scheme total of 7000 ha. As rice
cultivation has become less attractive, the area cultivated annually is expected to stabilize at less than
3000 ha for the whole scheme, less than 2000 ha in Kocani. This reduction in rice area would release
water for expansion of other crops, bringing up the overall utilization (irrigation intensity) of the scheme
nearer to the design expectation. As rice is a crop with a high water requirement, the capacity of the
canals and offtakes in this area is higher than necessary for the new cropping pattern. It is, therefore,
considered essential to rehabilitate the open canals in Kocani, to improve the measurement and control
of water and to improve irrigation management in these systems and at the field level, in order to
prevent the waste of water in Kocani which would be valuable in lower parts of the system.
2.     The irrigation distribution system in Kocani is a mixture of concrete lined canals, mostly in the
upper part, precast concrete units, referred to as "canalets," and earth canals. The latter are concentrated
in the lower rice growing areas, and are often also supplied by river diversions. Only the concrete
canals and canalets would be rehabilitated.
3.     As the objective of the rehabilitation in Kocani is to reduce irrigation water losses, both
distribution losses and on-farm losses, this can only be successful with the full co-operation of the
farmers. A fully participatory approach to planning, design and execution is, therefore, essential and a
self-help approach to this component is proposed. The proposal is that the farmers would contribute
their labour and the project would provide the materials. The type of repairs required, particularly to the
canalets, where patching and replacing broken sections are the main tasks are suitable for this approach.
The savings derived from this approach would allow a greater proportion of the Bregalnica right bank
canal to be rehabilitated, and would also minimize the disparity in investment cost between system
components. As this is an innovative approach hitherto untried in the country, the task would be
addressed as a pilot trial area in project years 1 through 3. The rehabilitation would be integrated with
agricultural advice and training to assist farmers diversify away from rice. Women farmers would be
also included in these advice and training activities.
Implementation Procedures
4.     Bregalnica-Kocani WMO would implement the rehabilitation in Kocani. This WMO owns a
precast concrete factory, originally responsible for construction of the precast canalets, from which
skilled staff can be drawn for the purpose. They would be supported by technical assistance, training
and equipment. Implementation would be achieved through a WUA, so that the programme would be
very closely integrated with the pilot WUA programme (refer Attachment IA), and prior formation of a
WUA would be a precondition for starting rehabilitation. As noted, implementation would be through
the WUA, but there would be no conflict with the general responsibilities of the WUA for irrigation
management as rehabilitation would be done outside the irrigation season.



Annex B
Page 18
5.    The main steps in the process are set out below:
* Introductory meetings to explain the project approach to WUA/self-help rehabilitation;
* Formation of the WUA with election of representatives;
* Further meetings to set out the self-help rehabilitation programme;
* Participatory interactive field planning of the rehabilitation requirements, including
addressing issues such as poor canalet alignment, access requirements, offtake locations,
involving joint inspections by WMO staff, WUA officials and farmer/irrigators. This would
take place in the irrigation season.
* Joint preparation of construction season rehabilitation programme;
* Estimation of resource requirements, labour and materials;
* Ratification of the plan and estimate by farmers at a WUA meeting (attended by WMO
staff);
* Organization of labour groups by canal and distributary and appointment of foreman from
amongst the farmer/irrigators;
* Training of selected foremen in appropriate technologies (depending on the canal
construction and condition) by WMO staff;
* Delivery of materials into WUAs cared by the WMO;
* Rehabilitation by the farmer/irrigators supervised by WUA officials and their trained
foreman with technical advice and assistance, for example on levels, from WMO staff;
- Inspection/approval of rehabilitation by WMO staff.
Project Inputs
6.    The project would fund the provision of rehabilitation materials, the incremental costs of WMO
staff, the training of WMO staff and WUA members, and provision of equipment and tools.
* Materials would comprise cement, sand and aggregate for concrete repairs, bitumen and
other sealant for joints, replacement canalet units and mounting blocks, culvert pipes etc. (to
be financed under System Rehabilitation Component)
* Equipment and tools provided would include shaped steel shutters for canalet repair, disc-
cutters and small hand tools such as wire brushes not likely to be available amongst the
farmer/irrigators. Such tools would only be on loan.
* Incremental salaries and operating costs of WMO staff (to be financed under Incremental
O&M Cost Component).
7.    The cost of this project element is estimated to be $75,000 to finance 3mm  of expatriate
specialist in participatory development procedures, training, equipment and operating costs. This
component would be implemented by WMO staff.



Annex B
Page 19
Attachment I - C
RESTRUCTURING THE WMOS
Current Situation
1.    Water Management Organizations (WMOs) are the principal institutions responsible for
management of irrigation systems in the country. The WMOs are semi-government organizations; they
are self-financing, dependent only on water charges, but responsible to government through MAFWE.
There are 25 main WMOs constituted under the 1981 Water Law, which collectively formn the Water
Management Association (WMA). There are two types of WMO: a principal WMO owning and
responsible for the main irrigation water supply, such as a dam and main canals, and distribution WMOs
responsible only for distribution to the farmers (and agrikombinats). WMOs are generally multi-
purpose, with responsibilities for irrigation, river control, flood protection, erosion control and other
environmental considerations. Many have subsidiary commercial activities. In the project area there are
seven WMOs reflecting the range of activities:
Table C.1 WMOs in the Project Area
WMO          Type                     C~~~~~~~~~munei~...........
TIKVES SCHEME
Tikvesko Pole        Principal        Owning Tikves dam and the two main
Distribution     canals
Makarija             Distribution     Wholly owned by Lozar Agrokombinat
Negotinoko Pole      Distribution     Also co-owner of part of the main canal
BREGALNICA
SCHEME
Bregalnica Kocani    Principal        Owning  Kalimanci dam, the  river
Distribution     diversion and two main canals
Osojnica             Distribution
Stip                 Distribution
Ovce Pole            Distribution
POLOG SCHEME
Gostivar             Principal/Dist.  Owning the main canal and distribution
Tetovo               Principal/Dist.  Owning the main canal and distribution
2.    The WMOs' weakness lies in the structural and legal constraint. Under the current arrangement,
WMOs are owned collectively by their employees and managed by elected managers; therefore, there is
no incentive to lay off redundant or incompetent staff, resulting in overstaffing and poor management.
Furthernore, WMOs are under control of three ministries (Ministry of Health for water quality, Ministry
of Urbanism, Construction and Ecology for domestic/industrial water supply, and MAWFE for
irrigation). This collective control turned out to be ineffective.
3.    The current deteriorated condition of the irrigation systems is largely the result of the WMOs
inability to (a) physically maintain the condition of the irrigation systems; and (b) to provide a reliable
and affordable service. This situation is not due entirely to the breakup of the former Yugoslav
Republic, the extent of the physical deterioration shows that the origins lie well back during the former
period. The two main weaknesses inherent in the current system are both structural. Firstly the
"ownership" structure, whereby the WMO is effectively owned and managed by its staff, leads to
overstaffing, restrictive and inefficient practices and prevents modernization.  Secondly, with the



Annex B
Page 20
WMOs most accountable to its own staff, only indirectly accountable to government, and very little to
its end-users, the farmers, it is has ho incentive as a monopoly provider to respond to the needs of those
who ultimately pay for the service. The former regime had made an attempt to introduce participation
through the "SIZ" organization, but this arrangement was terminated in 1994.  Thus, against a
background of a deteriorated agriculture sector resulting from the breakup of the the former Yugoslav
Republic, the WMOs have entered a vicious circle in which revenue is insufficient to provide adequate
maintenance, and the consequently deteriorating system fails to meet the requirements of the users,
leading to an increasing reluctance to pay water charges and the alienation of users and suppliers. The
situation continues to deteriorate: water charges have risen to a level considered unreasonable to most
farmers, in fact so that irrigation is clearly uneconomic for certain crops, leading to decreasing
collection rates and cost recovery. Most WMOs are in considerable financial hardship, many have
outstanding debts and others have difficulty even in paying salaries, it is clear they are not able to
finance rehabilitation or improve their service.
4.     Despite the weaknesses of the WMOs, and the deterioration in their service, the WMOs have
two main strengths which will be valuable assets if maintained in the future. Firstly, they are financially
independent, and are used to dependence on their own revenue, and they are experienced and
accustomed to setting, negotiating and collecting water charges. Secondly, they have experienced and
qualified staff capable of system management.
Cost Recovery
5. The calculation of water charges follows the provisions of the 1987 Water Law. Water charges are
calculated annually by the WMOs to include amortization, repairs to capital works, insurance,
contribution to capital reserves, expected maintenance costs, salaries and related expenses: These are
expressed per ha and divided into two components, a fixed component (generally 70 percent of the total
charge) which is theoretically charged whether or not irrigation is used, and a variable part reflecting the
water requirements of different crops. With the declining irrigation areas, and the WMOs increasing
debt service liabilities, the official water charges have risen steeply in recent years (they have doubled in
three years in Bregalnica). In the current economic climate farmers are unable to pay the full charges,
and in a negotiation process it is customary that the charges are reduced by 30 to 40 percent, eliminating
charges to non-irrigators and contributions to amortization and capital reserves and repairs. However,
collection of these reduced charges is under pressure causing severe financial difficulties amongst the
WMOs many of whom are now unable to recover even the full operating costs.
6.    In Tikves and Bregalnica schemes the following is the record of cost recovery in recent years.
On this evidence it is clear that in the initial years of the project, before restructuring and streamlining of
the WMOs can be achieved, it is apparent that they will still have to operate with a budget deficit (Table
C.2).
Government Strategy for Reform of the Water Sector
7.    Conscious of the deteriorating condition of the irrigation facilities, the financial crisis in the
WMOs and the importance of agriculture to the economy to recovery from the breakup of the the former
Yugoslav Republic, and responsive to the demands of farmers, the government is undertaking
institutional reform of the water sector. At the same time the government is aware that the breakup of
the the former Yugoslav Republic has left the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia without
adequate legislation to provide for economic and environmentally sound management of water
resources. The objective of the restructuring is to obtain sustainable and financially viable, cost-
effective institutions managing water which are transparent and responsive to consumer requirements



Annex B
Page 21
and sensible of their role in environmental protection. The centerpiece of this reform is the new Water
Law which is expected to become effective in late 1997.
Table C.2 Cost Recovery Rate
1990        88            70
1991        83            65
1992        85            67
1993        77            31
1994        70            37
1995        40            46
Key Provisions of the Proposed New Water Law
8.    The key provisions of this new law regarding WMOs and the irrigation sector are:
(a) Conversion of WMOs into Public Enterprises (PEs). All WMOs would be converted into public
enterprises, in fact under the Public Enterprise Law, which became effective in mid 1996, WMOs
have to convert to PEs by February 1997. GoM intention is that a single umbrella national-level PE
should be created, this would be the Public Water Management Enterprise (PWME) which would
hold the assets of all WMOs. The PWME would retain the current role of the WMOs, but would
also have much wider responsibilities for sustainable, environmentally sound management of
country's water resources. The PWME would report to and be responsible to the MAFWE, and in
accordance with PE Law the government would appoint the director and managing board of the
PWME. Water charges would be fixed by the PWME to a methodology to be drawn-up by the
PWME, and would be subject to the approval of the MAFWE. The current plan of the MAFWE is
that whilst there would be only one PWME, there should be separate operational units with separate
accounts created from the WMOs serving each individual scheme. At this stage no further details of
the future restructuring of the sector can be available as the new Water Law provides for these to be
established by the new PWME.
(b) Introduction of WUAs: The new Water Law specifically allows for the formation of Water Users
Associations (WUAs), and for these to participate in irrigation management by operation and
maintenance of facilities allocated to them by the PWME. Only the use, and responsibility for these
facilities can be handed-over, the ownership would remain vested in the PWME.
(c) The Water Fund: The new Water Law establishes two general sources of income for the PWME:
charges on the provision of services such as water for irrigation, drinking or industrial use, and
funds from a newly established "Water Fund." The Water Fund would receive its income from a
general "water compensation" tax levied on income, utilities and industries using water, various
fines and compensations, and from the annual state budget.



Annex B
Page 22
Important Considerations in the Institutional Restructuring
9.    The following are the main elements of the restructured institutions which are considered
essential to the health and sustainability of the sector, and development of which should be closely
monitored.
* The role of government (MAFWE) should be regulatory, not as a direct service provider;
* Water users would be substantially involved in operations at the local level, not only through
participation in WUAs, but also through participation in the management, or at least through
substantial consultation at the local level;
* Transparency in WMO accounts, particularly in water charge calculation, at the local level,
with publication of audited annual accounts;
* Local determination of water charges bases on actual scheme costs, with full cost recovery of
O&M charges by system (and possibly sub-system).
10.   The following are key performance indicators which, with project assistance, refer below, would
be determined annually for Tikves Polog and Bregalnica:
* Area irrigated, ha and percent of total command;
* Total volume of water delivered broken down by left/right bank and by WMO responsibility;
* Average actual cost of irrigation per ha broken down by cost components: salaries,
maintenance and repairs, power, other operating costs, debt servicing and overheads;
* Income/revenue by sources: government subsidies, water fees, earnings from other sources;
* Water charges billed;
* Water charges collected:
* Collection rate (water charges collected/water charges billed); and
* Cost recovery (water charges collected/operating expenses).
* Records such as minutes of meetings demonstrating user participation and representation in
management of the WMO.
Project Contribution to Restructuring the Water Sector
11.   The project would assist the Government in implementation of the reforms with technical
assistance provided in the following fields:
(a) Technical assistance with audit/cost accounting of WMOs on Tikves, Bregalnica, and Polog
in particular (i) to set up appropriate computerized accounting systems; and (ii) an annual
determination of the key performance indicators set out above, 8 mm in total from
Accountant, 4 mm in project year 1, 1 mm each in years 2 through 5.
(b) Technical assistance to PWME in drafting regulations and codes forming a part of the new
Water Law, 3 mm in one input in project year I from a Legal Specialist in Water Affairs
(c) Equipment: computers, software and training for each WMO.



Annex B
Page 23
12.   The cost of this component is estimated at $300,000 as shown in Table C.3 below.
Table C.3
Cost Estimate: Restructuring the Water Sector
Technical assistance   8 mm    20,000     160,000  Cost accounting
Technical assistance   3 mm    20,000      60,000  Water Codes
Equipment            4 sets    12,500      50,000  Computer, software
Language training     LS       30,000      30,000
TOTAL                                    $300,000



Annex B
Page 24
Attachment I - D
MODELLING STUDIES FOR WATER RESOURCES
There are two elements in this project component which will be implemented together by one team:
* Bregalnica water resource optimization; and
* Polog scheme, Vardar River modeling.
Rationale
BREGALNICA WATER RESOURCE OPTIMIZATION
Bregalnica irrigation system with a service area of 26,000 hectare is the largest in the country, and has
an extremely complicated water supply system. The main source is Kalimanci Dam on the Bregalnica
River, but his is supplemented by an additional sources:
* 5 side streams which cross the irrigation area and enter the main river. I have dams, some,
some are diverted into the canals, others are diverted into separate sub-systems, and others
run directly into the lower main river;
* the lower part of the main river where there are 3 permanent and 8 temporary diversions
utilizing the residual flow of the side streams and the return flow from the upper irrigation
area.
Additional complications are provided by the use of the irrigation releases for power generation,
although irrigation has priority, and cultivation of rice on low-lying areas, most of which have access to
dual sources of river diversions and the main canal system.
Over the last decade the scheme has experienced several years or extreme water shortage, which has
curtailed the irrigated area. The irrigation area could be maximized by optimal use of the complex water
resources based on modeling techniques and statistical evaluation and predictions of incoming
resources.
POLOG SCHEME VARDAR RIVER MODELLING
Two main irrigation service areas in the Polog scheme depend on diversions from the River Vardar
shortly downstream from the Mavrovo Hydro-electric Power Plant. This power plant is used to meet the
peak demand, and consequently releases vary during the day, with generally no releases at night. This
pattern of releases generates variable flows at the two downstream irrigation intakes, Gostivar and
Tetovo, respectively 1 and 13 km downstream. Whilst the hydro-electric power company is committed
to meet the irrigation demands, the pattern of releases is often inappropriate to the irrigation needs
Mathematical modeling of the river would be a valuable tool to demonstrate the consequences of various
pattems of releases on flows at these intakes, and could be used by the WMOs to assist in concluding
arrangements for appropriate releases with the Hydro-electric power company.
Objectives
The objectives of the two elements are:
* Bregalnica study: to set-up a computer-based tool which will be used by WMO staff to facilitate
decision making on annual irrigation planning, and the subsequent optimal management of water
resources.



Annex B
Page 25
* River Vardar model study: to set-up a computer based tool to facilitate Gostivar and Tetovo WMOs
(a) negotiate with the hydro-electric company for appropriate releases, and (b) predict consequent
discharge variations at their intakes so as to inform farmers of water availability and so improve
irrigation efficiency.
Implementation Arrangements
Both elements of this project component would be implemented through the TA consultancy contract
and will involve a national organization with water resource and research experience supported by
foreign specialist assistance providing and setting-up specialist software, and training in its use.
BREGALNICA WATER RESOURCE OPTIMISATION
The Bregalnica programme would contain four basic elements: (a) data collection, research and
evaluation of historic records of water resources and irrigated areas, (b) computer modeling and
simulations to identify optimal rules for use of the resources, with particular emphasis on optimal use of
the reservoir, (c) setting-up on the WMO and WDI computers a water resources management
programme to guide and assist future management of the scheme, and (d) training staff in use of the
programme as a real-time tool for planning the season's irrigation and subsequent use of the resources.
POLOG SCHEME VARDAR RIVER MODELLING
The Polog programme would contain five elements: (a) survey of the river cross-section from the HEPP
outlet to Tetovo intake as a basis for the model, (b) records of different release patterns and
corresponding water level variations to prove the model predictions, (c) setting-up the model on WMO
and WDI computers using specialist software, (d) proving the model by comparison of model
predictions with actual records obtained under (b) above, and (d) training staff in use of the model.
Project Inputs
Project inputs for both elements would comprise:
a) 12mm of a national specialist responsible for management of the programme, with particular
responsibility for data collection;
b) 4mm of an intemational specialist(s) in computer applications in hydraulic and water resource
modeling to assist during the programme, specifically for:
* specification of the field data to obtained,
* setting-up the Bregalnica model and development of optimal rules for resource management,
* setting-up and proving the River Vardar model,
* training staff in use of the two programmes, and identification of additional training needs
within the budget of the project component.
c) Specialist software;
d) data collection and programme operating costs;
Training costs, including necessary international training.



Annex 1
Page 26
Attachment I - E
PILOT TRIALS FOR IMPROVING IRRIGATION TECHNIQUES
Rationale
The economic decline over the recent years has placed a severe strain upon the irrigation systems, and
the effectiveness of the service has declined following (a) deterioration in the physical infrastructure, (b)
lost motivation amongst WMO staff, (c) deteriorated discipline. Additionally this has been a period of
acute water shortage, and the new emphasis on private farmers and the introduction of WUAs will
further increase the strain on the systems. Water management in many systems is now a major
constraint on the system's performance, and this is indicated by the common top-first priority of water
allocation, leaving the system tail-ends without a reliable water supply.
Improved water management is necessary if the systems are to respond to the main challenge of the
future which is to provide an economically priced, reliable and equitable irrigation supply to all users.
This challenge will first face the three schemes included for rehabilitation in this project where support
will be required for the WMOs, WUAs and farmers.
Objectives
The threefold objectives of this project component will be:
* to assist WMOs to provide and sustain a reliable and equitable supply of irrigation water to
all users
* to assist WUAs in water management in tertiary and secondary systems; and
* to assist farmers to improve their field irrigation.
This will be achieved through a combination of research, trials, demonstrations and training at two
WMOs: Bregalnica, with two programmes covering the canalet and pressure distribution areas, and on
Gostivar scheme (pipe distribution).
Implementation Arrangements
This project component would be implemented by WMO staff supported by national and international
staff provided through the TA consultancy contract. The programme would contain three basic
elements: (a) research and evaluation of current practices, (b) identification of appropriate simple, cost-
effective and known practices which can be introduced at the three levels, and (c) training based on
demonstrations of improved practices.
The research would monitor irrigation in three sample areas (two in Bregalnica and one in Gostivar)
over one irrigation season. It would identify weaknesses in current irrigation practice and propose
appropriate simple and cost-effective improvements which would be demonstrated in trial areas during
the next irrigation season. Additionally farmers, WUA members and WMO staff would receive
training.



Annex B
Page 27
Project Inputs
Project inputs would comprise:
a) 24mm of a national specialist to manage the programme, and with particular responsibility for the
initial research and the subsequent field demonstrations;
b) 6mm of an international irrigation management specialist to assist. during the programme,
specifically for:
* design of the field research programme,
* analysis of results and proposal of improved technologies,
* design of the demonstrations and trials,
* monitoring of results and report on conclusions,
* design of the training programme;
c) Temporary staff for record keeping;
d) Equipment and operating expenses;
e) Training for farmers, WUA members and WMO staff;
f) Implementation staff from the WMOs would be financed from the Incremental Cost component of
the project.



Annex B
Page 28
Attachment II- A
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STUDY OF ALGAE PROBLEM
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1. The operation of the systems of Tikves and Bregalnica irrigation schemes , which irrigate 13,000
hectares and 25,510 hectares in central part of the country, is seriously affected by the growth of algae in
the concrete lined canals. Tikves is one hour drive from Skopje, in the region of Kavadarci, Negotino
and Gradsko. Bregalnica is two hours drive from Skopje, in the region of Kocani, Stip and Sveti Nikole.
The Tikves system draws its water from Tikves dam on the Cma river, and Bregalnica system from the
Kalimanci dam on the Bregalnica river. Both the systems provide irrigation from the middle of May to
end of October each year. The algae (the tenn includes all the organic growth in the canals) starts
building up soon after the start of the irrigation season and progressively builds up to such an extent by
July, that irrigation can not continue. The algae gets transported by flow, passes through the distribution
pipes and clogs the hydrants. The canal has to be shut down for algae clearance, which takes about 2 to 3
days(cleaning being carried out manually). The cleaning operation has to be generally carried out 2 to 3
times during one irrigation season. A study is, therefore, proposed to be carried out to solve the problem,
the Terms of Reference being defined hereinafter.
Scope of Study
2. The study shall include: (i) biological identification of the different types of algae forming in the
canals and their characteristics, and the probable causes of formation and growth, (ii) identification of
the possible measures to eliminate the algae problem and selecting those suitable for the conditions at
the two schemes without affecting the quality of water for irrigation and environment,(iii) applying the
selected measures during one irrigation season in different canals of the two systems and monitoring the
impact of the application in each case, (iv) deciding which remedial measure would be most effective
and economically viable, and (v) making all the arrangements for repeating the application of the
remedial measure in the next irrigation season by the WMO.
Study Tasks
3. The study shall be conducted under the following Tasks which would run simultaneously or in
sequence as required.
Task 1: - The Task would comprise collection of algae samples from the canals for botanical
classification. Such samples may have to be taken during spring, summer and late summer, should the
observations indicate the formation of different types as the irrigation season progresses. The Task shall
also include establishing base line data, such as recording of canal lengths and location in these lengths
where algae forms, labour days required for cleaning and time for cleaning to be used later for impact
monitoring.
Task 2: The Task shall include investigating the reasons for the algae formation, which may need
sampling of water flowing into the reservoir, and at different locations of the canal system for analysis
of the presence of materials conducive to algae formation, as well as recording water temperatures, etc.



Annex B
Page 29
Task 3: The Task shall require identifying on the basis of experience gained in other countries, all
possible measures for eradication of algae under similar circumstances, examining the relevance of their
application to Tikves and Bregalnica conditions, and recommending what measure or measures could be
tried. The possible measures would include mechanical, chemical or bacterial applications. The
recommendation will include detailed materials, equipment, and both technical and non-technical
manpower requirements, as well as the methodology which will be used for impact evaluation. The
recommended measures shall not affect the quality of irrigation water or the health of the irrigators.
Task 4: The Task will require submission of a report to the PMT on the findings of Task I and 2, and the
recommendations under Task 3, and obtaining the PMT concurrence for further implementation of the
study. An important requirement would be to indicate in detail how impact monitoring will be carried
out.
Task 5: This will be the most important Task and will require carrying out the approved measures
(including procurement of materials and equipment and arranging necessary personnel and their
transport) over one irrigation season and monitoring the impact. A report on the work carried out, the
monitoring conducted, and the conclusions derived from impact monitoring, shall be required within
two months after the close of the irrigation season. In case more than one remedial measures were
carried out, the report will bring out the comparative advantage and recommend the suitable measure for
future use.
Task 6: The Task will include training of the staff assigned by the WMOs in the two schemes in the
methods of application during the implementation of remedial measures, preparing the work program
for carrying out algae elimination in the next irrigation season including assistance to WMOs in
procuring necessary equipment and materials.
Facilities to be Provided by the PMT
4. The PMT would arrange through the WMOs of the two irrigation systems, one counterpart for each
system who will be available in the field when requested by the consultants, and will carry out the
functions assigned to them; and access to the entire irrigation network. The PMT will provide decision
on the report submitted by the consultant under Task 4, within 14 days.
Time Schedule
5. The study will cover two irrigation seasons. The consultant, however, will attempt to complete the
analysis of the algae, the selection of the remedial measures as early as possible so as to permit the
commencement of trials in the later part of the first season. Thus results could be available for
application in the second season.



Annex B
Page 30
Attachment 1 - B
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STUDY FOR EVALUATION OF DETERIORATION OF CANAL SIPHONS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1. The irrigation system for Tikves ( 13,000 ha in the region of Kavadarci, Negotino and Gradsko) and
Bregalnica ( 25,510 ha in the region of Kocani, Stip and Sveti Nikole), the two largest systems in the
country, have a large number of siphons on the main canals, to cross land depressions. These systems
were constructed in the 1970s. Since then, it has not been possible to examine the condition of these
siphons as a few are of too small diameter to permit visual inspection, while the drainage of water from
all the siphons poses problems due to non provision of any hatch or manhole in the deepest portion. The
siphons are made of reinforced concrete with a thin steel lining, or exposed steel pipe supported on
saddles, or buried steel pipes. Details of the siphons on the two systems are given in the Table 5 and 2.
The study for these siphons, under these Terms of Reference, has the objective of establishing the extent
of deterioration, if any, in sufficient detail to permit design of remedial measures.
General Scope of Work
2. The extent of deterioration of each siphon will be established both for hydraulic performance and
structural safety. The hydraulic performance will be assessed by the actual rugosity coefficient for flow
through the siphons, and the loss of water, if any, occurring through the siphon barrel. The structural
safety will be assessed by establishing the quality of concrete, deterioration of the steel lining of
concrete barrel or the thickness of the steel pipe.
Study Tasks
3. The study shall be carried out under the following tasks.:
Task A - would include establishing the hydraulic conductivity of the siphon by measuring at least three
different discharges and the corresponding loss of head between the inlet and outlet ends. The discharge
will be measured by an integrating type ultrasonic meter with proven accuracy or by other means
providing accuracy within plus or minus 5 percent. The friction coefficient will be calculated for each
case making judgment on the entry and exit losses from the visible flow conditions.
Task B - would include establishing the extent of loss of water through the siphon barrel. An
approximate assessment will be initially made from the measurement of the discharges at the two ends
of the siphon carried out simultaneously under Task A. Should this assessment indicate the occurrence
of loss, arrangement shall be made to bulk head the two siphon ends suitably, and the loss of water over
an 8-hour period shall be determined. Both the Tasks A and B shall be completed before proceeding to
Task C.
Task C - would require (where manhole or hatch does not exist in the deepest portion) making a 200
mm to 300 mm hole in the barrel (where siphon has concrete barrel) or 75 mm to 100 mm hole in the
steel pipe. These holes shall be formed in such a manner as to be converted to a permanent arrangement
for emptying the barrels whenever required, and the conversion will be carried out after the completion
of inspection. The siphon will be drained through this hole including pumping out any remaining water
in the siphon barrel. Arrangement for inspection of the inner surface of the siphon barrels will then be



Annex B
Page 31
made. In case of larger sizes permitting visual inspection, suitable ladder/ walkway in the sloping
portions will be provided as well as lighting and breathing equipment if the conditions so warrant. The
large size barrels being reinforced concrete with 5 mm steel lining, the inspection will establish: a) areas
where lining has completely disappeared including an opinion on the exposed concrete, b) area where
lining has deteriorated into brittle flaky condition permitting easy scraping, and c) at every 100 m (i) the
depth of sediment deposit, and its gradation, (ii) condition of steel lining in a one foot long ring where
the surface rust and loose material will be removed and the thickness of the remaining lining will be
determined. The quality of the siphon concrete shall be established at every 500 m. Any holes made in
the lining or concrete shall be made good by filling the hole properly. Non-destructive in-situ tests will
be preferred. Special attention will be given to locate the source of leakage when Task B indicates
leakage through the barrel. In case of small diameter barrels not permitting visual inspection, a
continuous record of the inner surface of the barrel shall be obtained by using a video camera.
Task D: - would require submission of a detailed report for each siphon with longitudinal plots of the
inspection results.
Timing for the Study
4. Task A and B shall be carried out during the first irrigation season after the signing of the
consultancy contract, while Task C will be completed within the following non-irrigation season, and
the report on the study submitted one month prior to the commencement of the next irrigation season.
Responsibilities of the Consultant
5. The consultant shall be responsible for: (a) arranging all equipment, ladders, walkways, and materials
needed for the study, (b) deploying the necessary personnel, including necessary safety measures to
avoid injury, (c) obtaining the PMT approval for the methodology for each Task, and informing the
PMT of any changes thereafter prior to applying the changed methodology, (d) arranging necessary
transport for personnel and goods, and training of the counterpart staff deputed by WMO in all the
techniques used during the study. The proposals for the methodology and changes shall be in writing
and approval/comments by the PMT shall be conveyed in writing as well.
Responsibility of the PMT
6. The PMT shall provide approval or comments on the methodology proposed for each Task within 14
days of submission by the consultant. The PMT will assure through WMOs concerned full cooperation
of the WMOs staff in conducting the study. Each WMO will identify one person who will assist in the
study. WMOs will provide space for safe keeping of the consultants equipment or materials.
Submission of Reports
7. On completion of each Task, the consultant shall submit a report on the Task. The consultant will
submit a consolidated report on all the Tasks at the end of the study.



Annex B
Page 32
Table I
Tikves Irrigation System
Data for Siphons
Material                                                                        Elevation    Lowest
of             From / To          Length    Diameter   Manhole   Discharge    at Entry    Elevation
Canal / Siphon       Siphon            (km + m)            (m)       (mm)       Exists     (m3/s)             (     m) (m)
Joint Canal
Siphon Voozarci             A         5 + 175.33 - 5 + 572.25   396.92    2,300      Yes        12.08      237.03     210.20
Left Canal
Siphon Makarija             B        11 + 668.26 - 13 + 837.26   2,169.00    1,640   Yes        3.84       235.42     153.68
Siphon Kamen Dol            A        15 + 972.26 - 16 + 214.26  242.00    1,600      Yes        3.536      232.40     199.20
Siphon Kalugerka            A        17 +403.26 - 17 + 818.26   415.00    1,600      Yes        3.514      231.35     201.10
Siphon Sirkovo              A        19 + 710.26 - 19 + 836.26  126.00    1,400      Yes        3.062      230.26     220.10
Siphon Krusevicki           A        24 + 086.26 - 24 + 123.00   37.00    1,300       No        2.89       228.17     224.40
Siphon Vinicni             AC        44 + 917.26 - 45 + 611.26  694.00     600       Yes        0.287      221.80      176.50
Siphon Aliskovo            AC        47 + 196.26 - 47 + 426.26  227.00     360                  0.068      220.10      191.63
Right Canal
Ljuben - Marena
Siphon Orizarski            A        12 + 093.34 - 12 + 176.78   83.44    2,300      Yes         7.64      235.04     218.20
Siphon Ljubaski             A        13 + 367.44 - 13 + 471.85  104.41    2,200      Yes         7.04 .    234.42     210.30
Siphon Marena               A        23 + 667.35 - 24 + 476.74  808.39    2,000      Yes       .4.72       230.54     215.80
Siphon Cesma                -        25 + 491.59 - 26 + 667.47  175.88    2,000      Yes        4.57       229.50     216.30
Right Canal
Marena -Tremnik
Siphon Pod Pat              -        27 + 670.54 - 27 + 879.48    9.00    1,700      Yes        3.20       230.12     210.24
Siphon Timjanicki           -        33 + 145.55 - 33 + 335.80  190.25    1,300      Yes        1.565      228.05     204.35
Siphon Disanski             -        49 + 109.96 - 49 + 370.78  260.82    1,000       No        1.000      222.80     203.09
Right Canal - Canal 37
Siphon Sopotski              -        4 + 245.29 - 4 + 412.79   167.50     700                    -           -
Siphon Lepovo               -         8 + 008.79 - 8 + 377.29   368.50     700
Siphon Boskov               -         9 + 154.79 - 9 + 431.29   276.50     700         -
NOTE: A. Reinforced concrete with 5 mm internal lining
B. Exposed steel pipe 6 to 8 mm thick supported on saddles
C. Underground steel pipe 6 to 8 mm thick



Annex B
Page 33
Table 2
Bregalnica Irrigation System
Data for Siphons
Material                                                                       Elevation    Lowest
of             From / To         Length    Diameter   Manhole   Discharge   at Entry   Elevation
Canal / Siphon       Siphon           (km + m)            (m)       (mm)       Exists    (m3/s)       (m)        (m)
Main Canal - Left
Istibanja - Zrnovci
Siphon Istibanja            B        0 + 560.00 - 0 + 987.00   427.00    2,100      Yes        6.40      371.01     370.91
Siphon Osojnica             B        4 + 908.00 - 5 + 068.60   161.00    2,100      Yes        6.32      468.87     366.97
Siphon Gradecka Reka        B        7 + 114.00 - 7 + 143.00    29.00    2,100      Yes        6.32      367.73     366.03
Main Canal _ Left
Zrnovci - Burilcevo
Siphon Zmovci               B       13 + 215.00 - 13 + 286.00   71.00    1,900      Yes        11.91     363.45     363.45
Siphon "H"                  B       20 + 703.00 - 20 + 760.00   57.00    1,500      Yes        2.52      360.65     356.55
Siphon Teranci              B       22 + 460.00 - 22 + 523.50   63.50    1,500      Yes        10.26     359.41     359.31
Siphon Kucicino             B       26 + 445.00 - 26 + 602.00  157.00    1,800      Yes        2.52      357.46     352.26
Main Canal - Left
Burilcevo - Kozjak
Siphon Burilcevo            B       28 + 712.00 - 28 + 838.00  126.00    1,300      Yes         1.61     356.21     352.06
Siphon Argulica            B        31 + 917.00 - 32 + 240.00  323.00    1,300      Yes        1.67      354.97     351.12
Siphon Crvulska Reka       B        33 + 620.00 - 33 + 660.00   40.00    1,200      Yes        1.67      354.35     351.65
Siphon Kozjaka Reka        B        36 + 332.00 - 36 + 680.00  348.00    1,000      Yes        10.26     353.68     349.88
Main Canal - Right
Istibanja - Kocani
Siphon Orizarska Reka      A         7 + 821.09 - 8 + 198.61   378.00    2,400      Yes        13.30     365.29     353.04
-Siphon Garazi               A       10 + 829.00 - 11 + 218.00   65.00    2,400      Yes        13.30     363.15     357.02
Main Canal
Kocani.- Zletovica
Siphon Kocani              A        11 + 989.00 - 12 + 259.00  279.00    2,400      Yes         1.61     361.91     343.66
Siphon Beli                A        12 + 471.00 - 12 + 555.00   84.00    2,400      Yes         1.61     360.90     346.52
Main Canal - Right
Zietovica - Istibanja
Siphon Zletovica           A        33 + 216.00 - 34 + 937.75   1,722.00    2,100   Yes        11.91     347.42     335.42
Main Canal - Right
Mustafino - Sv. Nikole
Siphon Mustafino            B       57 + 177.50 - 57 + 617.10  440.00    1,700      Yes        10.26     333.59     328.34
Siphon Nemanica             B       61 + 468.00 - 61 + 908.00  440.00    1,700      Yes        8.62      329.43     322.93
Siphon Sv. Nikole          B        74 + 053.50 - 76 + 116.00   2,063.00    1,800   Yes        10.26     322.27     310.77
NOTE: A. Reinforced concrete with 5 mm internal lining
B. Buried steel pipe 7 to 8 mm thick.



Annex B
Page 34
Attachment II - C
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STUDY FOR MAXIMUM PROBABLE FLOODS FOR DAMS
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1. The project provides for the rehabilitation of the irrigation schemes which are dependent for their
supplies on three dams, the Tikves on the river Crna, the Kalimanci on the Bregalnica river, and the
Mavrovo on the Mavroski river. Mavrovo reservoir has compared to its own catchment of 92 km2 a
large capacity to store water diverted from the neighboring streams through a system of feeder canals
and tunnels. It has no spillway, water being withdrawn through power stations and in emergency
through the bottom outlet of 35 m3/sec capacity. This dam, therefore, is excluded from the study.
Construction of the other two dams was completed in 1968, and 1969 respectively. Since then the
condition of their catchments (5,361 km2 for Tikves, 4,300 km2 for Bregalnica) has changed which
could result in higher runoff from rainfall. Also storms of higher rainfall intensity have been traversing
the country. It is therefore, the intention of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Water Economy
(MAFWE), which is responsible for overseeing the safety of all the dams in the country, to carry out a
study under the following Terms of Reference, to evaluate again the maximum probable flood (PMF)
which could occur at these two dams and to compare with the values used at the initial design stage.
General Scope of Study
2. The study shall require collecting the hydrological and meteorological data from all the sources;
obtaining information from relevant agencies on catchment characteristics which affect the rainfall -
runoff relationship and the lag times from different sections of the catchment; reviewing the method
used in the initial estimation; recommending the methodology considered appropriate considering the
developments in the estimation of floods for the design of major structures; and applying the method or
methods accepted by the Project Management Team (PMT) of MAFWE, to estimate the PMF in each
case. Should the re-estimated PMF exceed the previous value used in the designs, the consultant shall
route the flood and determine the maximum reservoir level attained and the maximum flow on the
spillway.
Study Tasks
3. The study shall be carried out under the under-mentioned Tasks.
Task A: will require review of the previous estimation of the PMF for the two dams; collection of all the
hydrological and climatic data; and the catchment characteristics including information on ground cover
through satellite imagery maps if required. The Hydrometeorological Institute, Skopje is responsible for
the recording of the rainfall, stream flow, and climatic data at the stations. The catchment characteristics
can be obtained from the MAFWE. This Task shall be completed in about three months time from the
commencement of consultancy, when a report will be submitted (within 15 days thereafter) on the data
collected, the limitations of the data, and how it would affect the study. Any assistance needed from the
PMT to improve the situation will be sought during the implementation of the Task.
Task B: shall include recommending the method or methods which the consultant considers appropriate
for each dam, considering the size and shape of catchment and the importance of snow melt floods
compared to the floods due to rainfall, or a combination thereof. Any computer software to be used in



Annex B
Page 35
the analysis will be explained in detail regarding the steps and stages of computation, the language used,
and the checks on computation exercised. This Task shall be completed within four months of the
commencement of the study. The PMT shall approve or seek clarification for the proposed methods
within 15 days of the submission of the report.
Task C: shall include application of the methodology or methodologies accepted by the PMT to the two
cases for estimation of the PMF for the dams. The values obtained will be compared with the values
adopted for initial designs, and flood routing carried out should the revised PMF be higher. The report
on this Task will be submitted within three months of the PMT acceptance of the methods proposed.
Responsibility of the Consultant
4. The consultant shall be responsible for contacting the relevant agencies for collection of data and the
initial design reports. The consultant will obtain satellite imagery maps at his cost and arrange for all
computer hardware and software. All the floppy discs used for the data or computations and the maps
procured shall be passed on to the PMT at the completion of the study as well as a copy of the software
used.
Responsibility of the PMT
5. The PMT shall help the consultant in getting access to the data available with the different agencies.
The PMT will provide timely decision to the consultant as envisaged under the Study Task B.



Annex a
Page 36
Attachment II - D
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STUDY FOR ALTERNATIVE ALIGNMENT OF TIKVES TUNNEL
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1. The Tikves irrigation scheme having a service area of 13,000 ha, draws its water from the Tikves
reservoir on the river Cma, through a two km long tunnel with a capacity of 10.8 m3/sec. The inlet of the
tunnel is located on the right abutment about 230 m upstream of the Tikves dam (height 113.5 m and
length 338 m) axis, at elevation 240 m (full reservoir water surface elevation of 265 m and top of dam at
268.5 m). The discharge through the tunnel is controlled by two pairs of vertical gates installed at the
bottom of a vertical gate shaft located at about 106 m from the tunnel inlet. The energy dissipating basin
(20 m long, 5.5 m wide, and 6.5 m) high is just downstream of the gate shaft. The entire stilling basin,
lower part of the gate shaft, and the tunnel downstream thereof is in sound quartzite schists. The upper
portion of the gate shaft and most of the tunnel from the inlet to the gate shaft is located in blocky
quartzite schists, broken quartzite schists, quartzite schists with mylonite filled in between the blocks,
and overburden.
2. Since the beginning of the exploitation of the Tikves reservoir, movements were noticed on the right
abutment of dam, when survey points were installed on the right abutment hill extending to levels higher
than the top of the dam, both upstream and downstream of the dam. These survey points were later
extended to the area above and below the gate shaft, following the observation of movement in this area
as well. The vertical and horizontal movements are being continuously monitored and have since more
or less stabilized. The maximum horizontal movement of any survey point in the gate shaft area has
been 178 mm towards the reservoir and maximum vertical settlement of 84.4 mm. The tunnel, when
inspected in 1993 (when the reservoir reached the lowest level and could be lowered further below the
tunnel invert), showed horizontal and vertical movements at the transverse joints of the lining, and
cracks in the vicinity of the joints. Cracks were also noticed in the lower portion of the gate shaft
concrete lining. The stability of the rock mass traversed by the inlet portion of the tunnel is, therefore,
being looked upon with suspicion, necessitating a study if an alternative alignment could be located with
assured stability. The proposed study shall fulfill this need, the Terms of Reference being as follows.
General Scope of Study
3. The study shall include (a) a review of the rock movements recorded at the survey points, the geology
and the structure of the rock formation in the gate shaft and inlet tunnel area and vicinity, the nature of
movement and cracks in the tunnel and gate shaft, and concluding if the movements are indicative of
general adjustment of rock formation resulting from saturation, variation of reservoir levels, and
reservoir loads on the valley floor and sides which has more or less stabilized by now; or these indicate
any tendency for movements along weaker planes which could be triggered to larger movement in case
of an earthquake shock or rapid drowdown, (b) a study of the rock formations upstream of the area
under observation based on exposed features or possible extrapolation of the known sequence in the
tunnel area, if there was a likelihood of finding more stable formation which could permit an alignment
of the inlet tunnel with or without shifting the gate shaft, and planning geophysical tests to confirm the
conclusions (the geophysical tests shall extend to the present alignment of the inlet tunnel to compare
the two formations), (c) carry out the geophysical tests and follow these with actual drilling along the
alignment should the geophysical tests confirm the presence of better formations, and (d) prepare the



Annex B
Page 37
designs and cost estimates for the alternative tunnel, if drilling confirms the geological feasibility for the
tunnel.
Study Tasks
4. The study shall be carried out under the following Task.
Task A - shall include review of the movements of all the survey points used in the monitoring of the
right abutment, study of the bore hole logs and logs of drifts, interpret the sequence of rock formations,
and explore possible mechanism of cracking in the inlet tunnel and lower part of the gate shaft. The
consultant will express an opinion on the nature of movements as mentioned in para 2. The consultant
will submit a report on this Task separately.
Task B - shall require the consultant to establish, on the basis of surface geology and possible
extrapolation of the information available, if better rock formation could be located for another
alignment of the inlet tunnel. This preliminary assessment, provided it is encouraging, shall be followed
by planning geophysical tests along different profiles to gather more information on the nature of rock
formations at the elevation where the re-aligned tunnel will be located. The plan for the geophysical
tests shall also include the area of the existing tunnel for comparison of the formations along the new
alignment and the existing one.
Task C - will include carrying out the geophysical investigations. Should the geophysical tests indicate
better rock formations along the new alignment, the consultant will propose drilling (number of holes,
location, depth, size of holes, tests to be conducted) to be carried out to confirm the suitability of the
rock formations. The consultant will submit a report on the work done, the conclusions drawn, and seek
approval from the PMT for taking up the drilling. Should geophysical studies indicate the requirement
of a long inlet tunnel and / or repositioning of the gate shaft, the consultant shall provide an approximate
assessment of the investment cost for the realigned tunnel, gate shaft, basin, and connecting.tunnel.
Task D - shall include, after approval by the PMT of the drilling program submitted under Task C,
actual drilling, permeability tests, logging, and interpreting the sequence of rock formations. All the
cores obtained from drilling shall be properly marked and stored in wooden core boxes. A report on the
Task will be submitted, which would confirm if the alternative alignment for tunnel etc., compared to
the existing one, was superior or otherwise. In the event of the former conclusion, permission will be
sought from the PMT for proceeding to the feasibility report.
Task E - will require the feasibility level designs and assessment of investment costs considering
construction methods which would require the minimum number of days when the reservoir will need to
be maintained below the tunnel invert level. A realistic construction schedule will be given. The
outcome of the Task will be the feasibility report.
Responsibilities of the consultant
5. The consultant shall be responsible for all the personnel, equipment and materials needed for the
geophysical investigations and drilling operations including transport.
Responsibilities of the PMT
6. The PMT shall assist the consultant in getting access to site, shall collect for the consultant all the
data for the movement of survey points and arrange discussion with the personnel responsible for the
monitoring thereof. The PMT shall provide decision on each of the consultant's recommendations
within two weeks.



Annex B
Page 38
Consultancy Period
7. Task A and B shall be finished in two months from the beginning of consultancy and report submitted
thereafter within 10 days. Task C shall be completed in three months after the PMT decision to
commence the Task and report to be submitted within the next 15 days. Task D shall be completed in
five months time after permission to proceed and report submitted within the next one month. Task E
will be completed in four months after the PMT decision to prepare feasibility report is conveyed.



ATTACHMENT m
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING TABLES
A.    Summary Tables:
Project Cost Summary by Component
Project Components by Year
Project Expenditure Accounts by Components
Project Components by Financiers
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
B.    Detailed Cost Tables:
Rehabilitation at Tikves Scheme
Rehabilitation at Bregalnica Scheme
Rehabilitation at Polog Scheme
Institutional Development
Technical Studies
Project Administration
Incremental Operational Cost
Annex B
Page 39



Annex B
Page 40
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Irrigation Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Components Project Cost Summary
%      % Total
(Dinar Million)                (US$ Million)        Foreign    Base
Local     Foreign     Total     Local   Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
A. System Rehabilitation
1. Tikves Schemes                                              326.96    164.18      491.14     5.89     2.96      8.84       33        33
2. Bregalnica Scheme                                           208.50     95.21      303.71     3.75      1.71     5.47        31       21
3. Rehabilitation of the Polog Scheme                          249.68    107.11      356.79     4.50      1.93     6.43        30       24
Subtotal System Rehabilitation                                   785.15    366.50     1,151.65    14.14     6.60    20.74        32       78
B. Institutional Development
1. WUA pilot program                                             7.71     49.32       57.03     0.14      0.89     1.03       86         4
2. Pilot Trials for Improved Irrigation techniques               4.79     11.32        16.11     0.09     0.20     0.29        70        1
3. Pilot Trials for Self-Help                                       -      4.19        4.19        -      0.08     0.08       100        -
4. Bregalnica Water Resource Study                               2.04      8.67        10.71     0.04     0.16     0.19        81        1
5. Support for WMO restructuring                                 0.28     16.50        16.78     0.01     0.30     0.30        98        1
Subtotal Institutional Development                                14.82     90.00       104.82     0.27     1.62     1.89        86        7
C. Technical Studies
Algae                                                            2.57      3.02        5.59      0.05     0.05     0.10        54        -
Siphons Deterioration                                            4.58      3.80        8.38      0.08     0.07     0.15        45        1
Tikves Intake Tunnel                                             5.03      6.15        11.18     0.09     0.11     0.20        55        1
Design Floods                                                    3.35         -        3.35     0.06         -     0.06         -        -
Subtotal Technical Studies                                        15.53     12.97        28.50     0.28     0.23     0.51        46        2
D. Administeration and Monitoring
PMU Support                                                     70.64     46.80      117.45      1.27     0.84     2.12        40        8
Design and Supervision                                          43.43      6.01       49.44     0.78      0.11     0.89        12        3
Subtotal Administeration and Monitoring                          114.08     52.82       166.89     2.05     0.95     3.01        32       11
E. Implementation Support for WMOs                                27.77         -        27.77     0.50        -     0.50         -        2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                              957.34    522.29     1,479.63    17.24    9.41    26.65        35       100
Physical Contingencies                                         132.03     64.88       196.91     2.38     1.17     3.55        33       13
Price Contingencies                                             88.92     37.32       126.24     1.60     0.67     2.27        30        9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                             1,178.29    624.49     1,802.78    21.22    11.25    32.46        35      122



The forner Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Irrigation Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Project Components by Year - Base Costs
(US$ Million)
Base Cost
1998    1999    2000      2001     2002    Total
A. System Rehabilitation
1. Tikves Schemes                                            1.61    2.55     1.56     2.26     0.87     8.84
2. Bregalnica Scheme                                        0.72     1.45     1.46     1.19     0.65     5.47
3. Rehabilitation of the Polog Scheme                          -     1.84     1.44     1.76     1.39     6.43
Subtotal System Rehabilitation                                 2.33    5.84     4.45     5.21     2.91    20.74
B. Institutional Development
1. WUA pilot program                                        0.29     0.22     0.23     0.19     0.10     1.03
2. Pilot Trials for Improved Irrigation techniques           0.18    0.11        -        -        -     0.29
3. Pilot Trials for Sel-Help                                0.04     0.03        -        -        -     0.08
4. Bregalnica Water Resource Study                           0.11    0.08        -        -        -     0.19
5. Support for WMO restructuring                             0.10    0.08     0.07     0.05     0.01     0.30
Subtotal Institutional Development                             0.73    0.53     0.29     0.23     0.11     1.89
C. Technical Studies
Algae                                                        0.05    0.05        -        -        -     0.10
Siphons Deterioration                                       0.05     0.10        -        -        .     0.15
Tikves Intake Tunnel                                           -     0.20        -        -        -     0.20
Design Floods                                                  -     0.06        -        -        -     0.06
Subtotal Technical Studies                                     0.10     0.41       -        -        -     0.51
D. Administeration and Monitoring
PMU Support                                                 0.72     0.49     0.40     0.30     0.20     2.12
Design and Supervision                                      0.30     0.22     0.16     0.11     0.11     0.89
Subtotal Administeration and Monitoring                        1.01     0.71    0.56     0.42     0.31     3.01
E. Implementation Support for WMOs                             0.10    0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10     0.50
Total BASELINE COSTS                                           4.27     7.58     5.40     5.96     3.43    26.65
Physical Contingencies                                      0.42     0.99     0.73     0.87     0.54     3.55
Price Contingencies                                         0.09     0.41     0.48     0.74     0.55     2.27
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            4.79     8.98     6.60     7.57     4.52    32.46
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                                            2.14     3.34     2.16     2.34     1.27    11.25
Annex B
Page 41



Annex B
Page 42
The former Yugpsoav Republic of Macedoia
irgation Resructuring and Rehabiliation Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS Million)
institutional Development
pilot
System Rehabilitation                 Trals for    Pilot  8regalnice                        Technical Studies     Administeraton and
RehabilitAtion   WUA    Improved    Trials    Water    Support for                   Tikves            Monitoring      Implementation
Tikvxs  Bregalnie  of the Polog    pilot    rrigatlon  for    Resoure   WilO               Siphons   Intake Design   PMU   Design and   Support for
Schemes  Scheme    Scheme    program  techniques  Self-lelp   Study   restructudng  Algae Detdoraffon  Tunnel Floods Support Supervision      WMOs        Total
I. -wes_tm   Costs
A. Civi WVoda                          10.26     6.22          8.20       -           -        -         -                          -      -         -                -                    -  24.69
S. Goods
1. Equipment and Mactnery            0.63      0.17                  0.06        0.07     0.01      0.04         0.06   0.00         0.03              -                  -              -   1.07
2. Mgilea                                      0.37                                                              -        -                                     -                            0.37
3.FieldandOfliceequiEmnrx               -                      -        -                    -               -             -           -                    0.12       0.06                  0.18
SubOtl Goods                            0.63     0.53            *    0.06         0.07     0.01      0.04         0.06   0.00         0.03      -       -    012         0.06             -   1.82
C. Vehil                                  -         -            -        -        0.03                    -              -               -      -            0-13        0.08             -   0.24
D. Can    n
1. Design ond Constuction Supervision                                   -           -                 -             -      -           -       -      -       -        0.62              -   0.82
2. TchnicAistanee                                 -            -    0.98         0.20     0.07      0.15         0.28   0.10         0.14   0.22    0.07    0.69          -              -   2.90
3. Trainig                              -                      -    0.11         0.02     0.01      0.02                               -       -      -    0.09                   -          0.24
Subota Consultnmeles                                                   103         0.22     0.07      0.17         0.28   010          014    022    007    0.76         0.82              -   3.96
E. PMU Naibond Staff                                             -        -                                           -      -                   -       .    0.85          -              -   0.85
TotallnvestentCoadt                      10.89     6.76         8.20     1.15        0.32     0.08      0.21         0.34   0.11         0.17   0.22    0.07    18S        0.96              *  31.35
N. Recurut Cost
A. Opeaton and Staf6
PMU Opation                             -         -            -        *           -        -        -                                -       -      -    0.51        0.11                  0.82
knplmprtidon Support for lJMOs                                           -        -                   -             -      -           *       -      -                   -           0.50   0.50
ToRecu_tCot                                 -         -            -        -           *        -         -            -      -            -      -       -    051        011            050    1.12
TIaIPROJECTCOSTS                         10.89      6.76         8.20     1.15       032       00       0.21          034011             017022007239                       106            050   3246
Txn                                       -         -            .                                               -                         -
ForeIn Exdhne                          3.61      2.10          2.44    0.99        0.22     0.06      0.17         0.33   0.06         0.06   0.12            0.92        0.12             -  11.25



The fofmer Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Irrigation Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Components by Financiers
(US$ Million)
The Govemment                                                Local
The Govemment    of Netherland       IBRDIDA            Total         For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount    %      Amount    %      Amount    %      Amount    %        Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes
A. System Rehabilitation
1. Tikves Schemes                                          3.20     29.4       -        -    7.69     70.6   10.89      33.5    3.61     7.28
2. Bregalnica Scheme                                       2.10     31.1       -        -    4.66     68.9    6.76      20.8    2.10     4.66
3. Rehabilitation of the Polog Scheme                      1.86     22.7    6.34     77.3 .      -       -     8.20     25.3    2.44      5.76
Subtotal System Rehabilitation                               7.16     27.7    6.34     24.5   12.35     47.8   25.85      79.6    8.14    17.70
B. Institutional Development
1. WUA pilot program                                       0.00        -    1.15    100.0       -        -     1.15      3.5    0.99     0.16
2. Pilot Trials for Improved Irrigation techniques         0.00        -    0.32    100.0        -       -     0.32      1.0    0.22      0.09
3. Pilot Trials for Self-Help                                 -        -    0.08    100.0        -       -     0.08      0.3    0.08        -
4. Bregalnica Water Resource Study                         0.00        -    0.21    100.0        -       -     0.21      0.7    0.17      0.04
5. Support for WMO restructuring                           0.00        -    0.34    100.0        -       -     0.34      1.0    0.33      0.01
Subtotal Institutional Development                           0.00        -    2.10    100.0        -       -     2.10      6.5    1.80      0.30
C. Technical Studies
Algae                                                         -        -    0.11    100.0        -       -    0.11       0.3    0.06     0.05
Siphons Deterioration                                         -        -    0.17    100.0        -       -     0.17      0.5    0.08     0.09
Tikves Intake Tunnel                                       0.00        -    0.22    100.0       -        -     0.22      0.7    0.12     0.10
Design Floods                                                 -        -    0.07    100.0       -        -     0.07      0.2       -    0.07
Subtotal Technical Studies                                   0.00        -    0.56    100.0        -       -     0.56      1.7    0.26      0.31
D. Administeration and Monitoring
PMU Support                                                   -        -    2.31     96.8    0.08      3.2    2.39       7.4    0.92      1.46
Design and Supervision                                     0.82     77.0    0.17     15.8    0.08      7.2    1.06       3.3    0.12     0.95
Subtotal Administeration and Monitoring                      0.82     23.7    2.48     71.8    0.15      4.5    3.45      10.6    1.04      2.41
E. Implementation Support for WMOs                              -        -    0.50    100.0        -       -    0.50       1.5        -    0.50
Total Disbursement                                            7.98    24.6   11.98      36.9   12.50     38.5   32.46    100.0   11.25    21.22
AnnexB
Page 43



Annex B
Page 44
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Irrigation Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$ Million)
The Government                                                Local
The Government    of Netherland       IBRDIIDA           Total          For.   (Excl.   Duties &
Amount    %      Amount    %       Amount    %       Amount    %        Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                      6.80     27.5    6.34      25.7    11.55    46.8    24.69     76.0     7.35    17.34         -
B. Goods
1. Equipment and Machinery                        0.14     13.4    0.28      26.0    0.65     60.5     1.07      3.3     0.89     0.18         -
2. Materials                                      0.22     60.1        -       -     0.15     39.9     0.37      1.1     0.15     0.22         -
3. Field and Office Equipment                     0.00        -     0.18    100.0       -        -     0.18      0.5     0.14     0.04         -
Subtotal Goods                                      0.36     22.6    0.46      28.2    0.80     49.2     1.62      5.0     1.18     0.44         -
C. Vehicles                                         0.00        -     0.08     34.8    0.15     65.2     0.24      0.7     0.23     0.01         -
D. Consultancies
1. Design and Construction Supervision            0.82    100.0        -       -        -        -     0.82      2.5        -     0.82         -
2. Technical Assistance                           0.00        -     2.90    100.0       -        -     2.90      8.9     2.38     0.52         -
3. Training                                       0.00        -    0.24    100.0        -        -     0.24      0.7    0.11      0.12         -
Subtotal Consultancies                              0.82     20.7    3.14      79.3        -       -     3.96     12.2    2.49      1.46         -
E. PMU National Staff                                  -        -    0.85    100.0        -        -     0.85      2.6        -     0.85         -
Total Investment Costs                                7.98     25.5    10.86     34.7    12.50     39.9    31.35     96.6    11.25    20.10        -
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operation and Staff
PMU Operation                                        -        -     0.62    100.0       -        -     0.62      1.9        -     0.62         -
Implementation Support for WMOs                      -        -    0.50    100.0        -        -     0.50      1.5        -     0.50         -
Total Recurrent Costs                                    -        -     1.12    100.0        -       -      1.12      3.4       -      1.12        -
Total Disbursement                                     7.98     24.6    11.98     36.9    12.50    38.5    32.46    100.0    11.25    21.22         -



LI
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Irrigation Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Table 1.1. Rehabilitation of Tikves Scheme
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Quantities                                                      Totals Including Contingencies ('000)
Untt    1998   1999   2000   2001   2002    Total         Unit Cost      1998        1999         2000        2001         2002
I. Investment Costs
A. RehabilitationdoJointCanal(CWC01I)                                       ls           '          -       -                    1       697,000       7871 io0
S. RehabIltation of the Main Canal
Left Bank System Section Kamen Dol - Nogsevci (t) (CWC102)                Is         1                                        1       795,000      938.58
tnstaltion of Equipment and Measurement Structures (Year t) (CWUNS103)    Is          1       -       -       -      -         1        29,000       34.24
Left Bank System Section Kamen Dol - Nogaevci (II) (CWi104)               Is           -      1               -                1     1,331,000           -     1,615.71
Right Bank System Section Lubas-Marena (It) (CWC 105)                     1s                  1       -       -      -         1       700,000           -       849.74
tnatalnationofMeasurementStructures and Equipment(CVMNS107)               Is           -      1       -      -       -         1        21,000           -        25.49           -
Left Bank System Section Kamen Dot - Nogaevci (ttI) (CWC18)              1s           -      -       1       -      -         1       750,000           -            -      936.93
Right Bank System Section Lubas-Marena (III) (CWC109)                     Is           -      -       1       -      -         1       700,000           -            -      874.47
Installationofmeasurnmentstrucuturesandrequipment(CWNS110)                Is           -      -       1          -             1        17.000           -                    21.24
Left Bank System Section Kamen Dot -Nogaevci Main Repair (IV) (CW 111)    is           -      -       -      1       -         1       933,000           -            -           -    1,199.46
Left Bank System Section Kamen Doi - Nogaevci Follow Repair (IV) (CWt 112)  Is         -      -       -      1       -         1       567.000           -            -           -       728.94
Reconst,uction of the Right Bank Main Section (CWC 114)                   ls           -      -       -       -      1         1       683,000           -            -           -            -      903.23
Subtotal Rehabilitation of the Main Canal                                                                                                             972.82     2,490.94     1,832.64    1,928.40      903.23
C. Repairs to Turinel Tisovec Intake (CWC1I06)                              Is           -      1       -       -      -         1       120,000            -      145.67                        -           -
D. Repairs on the Siphons (CWI 113)                                         Is           -      -       -    0.8    0.2          1       928,0D0            -           -           -       954.43      245.45
E. Hydrants, valves, and pipes                                              Is         0.5       -    0.5            -           1       158,0D0       93.21            -       98.37            -
F. Measurement Equipment                                                    1            -      1       -       -      -         1       360,000           -       434.63           -            -
G. Design and Supervision Cost                                          Staff Months   60      60      40     30      30       220         1,500       106.32      109.51       75.19        58.09       59.83
Total                                                                                                                                                   1,959.45    3,180.74     2,006.21    2,940.92     1,208.51
Annex B
Page 45



Annex13
Page 46
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Irrigation Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Table 1.2. Rehabiitation of Bregalnica Scheme
Detailed Costs
(USS)
Quantities                                              Totals Including Contingencies ('000)
Unit    1998  1999  2000  2001  2002   Total   Unit Cost    1998           1999         2000        2001        2002       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Repairof Kailmanci Dan (CvVC 204)                            1                 1      -      -               1    242,000         -       293.77           -                             293.77
B. Left Bank Canal and Networks
Zrmovci-Budicevo (I) (CvWC201)                                Is         1                    -      -       1    399,000    450.58            -            -           -          -      450.58
lstbanJa-Zmovci (CWC203)                                     1s          -      I             -      -       1    586,000          -      711.35            -           -          -      711.35
Installation of Equipment and Mesurement Structures (CWNS202)  1s        1             -      -      -       1      92.000    108.62           -            -           -         -       108.62
Subtotal Left Bank Canal and Networks                                                                                           559.20      711.35            -           -          -     1,270.55
C. Right Bank Main Canal
Rehabilitation of Distribution Network (CWC206)              Is          -      I      -      -              1    222,000          -      269.49                        -          -      269.49
Kocani-Mustatino (I) (CWC205)                                 Is         -      1      -      -      -       1    240,000          -      291.34                  -                -      291.34
RehabilitationofDlstributionNetwork(CWC209)                   ls         -      -      1             -       1    114.000          -           -       142.41                             142.41
Kocani-Mustatino (II) (CWC 208)                               ls         -      -      1      -      -       1    590,000          -           -       737.05           -          -      737.05
KocanMusfatino (IN) (CVW210)                                  Is                -      -      I      -       1    487,000          -                        -      600.38          -      6W.38
Main Canal Section (Major Repair) (cwc21l)                   Is           -     -      -      1      -       1    719,000                      -            -      924.35                 924.35
Rehabiitason of Secondary Canals (CWC212)                    Is           -            -      -     1        1    646.000                      -            -           -    854.30       854.30
Subtotal Right Bank Main Canal                                                                                                       -       560.83      879.47     1,524.72    854.30     3,819.31
D. Repairs on the Siphons (CWC 207)                             1 s         -        -   1      -      -       1    673,000          -            -      840.74            -         -       840.74
E. Hydrants, valves, and pipes                                  Is        0.5     *   0.5       -      -       1    138,000      81.41           -        85.92                      -      167.34
F. Materials for Self-Help Pilot
1. Cement                                                    ls        0.5   0.5       -      -      -       1    209,000    123.35       126.75            -           -                 250.10
2. Coarse Sand and Gravel                                     Is        0.5   0.5      -      -      -       1      73,500     43.38       44.58            -           -          -       87,96
3. Construction Equipment                                    1s        0.5   0.5       -      -      -       1      24.500     14.46        14.86           -           -          -       29.32
Subtotal Materials for Self-Help Pilot                                                                                          181.19       186.19           -            -         -      367.38
G. Design and Supenrision Cost                             Staff Months    20    35    25    15    15        110       1,500     35.44       63.88        47.00        29.04     29.92      205.27
Total                                                                                                                              857.24     1,816.01    1,853.13     1,553.77    884.22     6,964.35
'1



The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Irrigallon Resbudurng and Rehabilitation Project
Table 1.3. Rehabilitaton of the Polog Scheme
Detailed Cosbt
(USS)
Quantities                                                Totals Including Contingencies (000)
Unit    1998   1999   2000   2001   2002    Total   Unit Cost   1998           1999         2000        2001         2002
1. Investment Costs
A. Rehabilitation of Gostivar Schemes
Rehabilitation of Canals and Irrigation Network in Banjicko Pole (CWC301)  Dollar   -      1       -       -      -        1    300.000         -       364.17                                    -
Rehabilitation of Canals and Irrigabon Network in Banjicko Pole (11) (CWC304)  Dollar   -          1       -      -        1    471,000         -            -      588.39
Reconstruction of irrigation networks at Gostivarsko Pole (CWC302)     1            -      I               -      -        1    470,000         -       570.54           -
Installation of Equipment and Measurement Structures (CWNS303)       Dollar         -      1       -              -        1      22,000        -        26.71                        -
Reconstruction of Network for Separate Irrigabon (CWC305)            Dollar         -      -       -      1       -        1    700,000         -           -            -       939.05
Small Rehabilitation Works (CWC306)                                  Dollar                -       -      1                1    106,000         -           -                    142.20
Subtotal Rehabilitation of Gostivar Schemes                                                                                                       -       961.42      588.39     1,081.25
S. Tetovo Scheme
Reconstruction of Main Canal Rediovce-Tetovo (CWC401)                Dollar         -      I       -       *      -        1    347,000                 421.23
Reconstruction of Main Canal Tetovo-Bistrica (CWC410)                Dollar                                       1        1    700,000         -           -            -            -      965.96
Reconstruction of Irrigation Network (CWC402)                        Dollar         -      I       -       -      -        1    680,000         -       825.46                                    -
Installation of Equipment and Measurement Structures (CWNS403)       Dollar         -      1       -       *      -        1       8,000                  9.71
Reconstruction of Main Canal Tetovo- Bistrica (11) (CWC 404)         Dollar             -          1           -           1    700,000                      -      874.47                        -
Reconstruction of Irrigation Network (CWC411)                        Dollar         -      -       -       -      1        1    680,000         -           --                               938.36
Reconstruction of PS Rataje and Irrigation Network (CWC405)          Dollar         -      -       1       -      -        1    250,000         -           -       312.31                        -
Installation of Equipment and Structures (CWNS406)                   Dollar                                                I .   1  8,000       -           -         9.99
Reconstruction of Main Canal Tetovo-Bistrica (CWC 407)               Dollar         -      -       -      1       -        1    735,000         -           -            -      944.92
Reconstruction of Irrigation Network (11) (CWC408)                   Dollar         -      -       -              -        1    200,000         -           -            -       257.12
Installation of Equipment and Measurement Structures (CWNS409)       Dollar         -      -       -                        1     8,000        -           -            -        10.28           -
Subtotal Tetovo Scheme                                                                                                                            -     1,256.39     1,196.78    1,212.32     1,904.32
C. Design and Supervision Cost                                       Staff Months   20      35      25     15      15      110       1,500    35.44        63.88       47.00        29.04       29.92
Total                                                                                                                                            35.44     2,281.69    1.832.17     2,322.61    1.934.24
Annex B
Page 47



Annex B
Page 48
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Irrigation Restructurng and Rehabilitation Project
Table 2. Institutional Development
Detailed Costs
(USS)
Quantities                                             Totals Including Contingencies (000)
Unit      1998   1999   2000   2001   2002    Total   Unit Cost    1998           1999       2000      2001       2002       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. WUA Pilot Program
1. Pilot Phase
Expatriate Specialists                                Staff Months      8       8       -       -       -       16     20.000     172.23     176.37         -          -         -       348.61
Gender Specialist                                         Is            1       1       -       -       -        2     20,000      21.53      22.05                    -                  43.58
Training                                                  1s          0.7    0,3        -       -       -        1    100,000      75.43      33.20         -          -         -       108.63
equipment                                                 1 s          0.8    0.2               -       -        1      50,000     47.18      12.09         -          -         -        59.27
Subtotal Pilot Phase                                                                                                                316.37    243.71           -         -          -       560.08
2. Expansion Phase
Expatriate Consultants                                Staff Months      -       -       7       5       3       15      20,000         -          -    158.49     116.27     71.54       346.30
Training                                                  Is            -       -    0.4    0.4    0.2           1    100,000          -          -     45.53      46.82     24.06       116.41
Unprogrammed                                              1s            -             0.4    0.4    0.2          1    110,000          -          -     49.95      51.34      26.35      127.64
Subtotal Expansion Phase                                                                                                                 -          -    253.97    214.43      121.95       590.35
Subtotal WUA Pilot Program                                                                                                             316.37    243.71    253.97    214.43      121.95     1,150.42
B. Pilot Trials for Improving Irrigation Techniques
National Experts                                        Staff Months     12      12       -       -       -       24       1,800     23.30      24.00                    -          -       47.29
Expatriate Experts                                      Staff Months      3       3       -       -       -        6      20,000     64.59      66.14          -         -          -       130.73
Part Time Clerks forRecord Keeping                          Set          0.5    0.5       -       -       -        1      20,000      10.79     11.11          -         -          -        21.90
Training                                                    Set          0.5    0.5       -       -       -        1      15,000      8.08       8.30          -         -          -        16.38
WaterMeasurementEquipment                                   Set          0.8    0.2       -       -       -        1      60,000      56.61     14.51          -         -          -        71.12
Vehicle                                                     Set           1        -      -       -       -        1      30,000     30.76          -          -         -          -        30.76
Subtotal Pilot Trials for Improving Irrigation Techniques                                                                              194.13    124.05          -         -          -       318.18
C. Pilot Trials for Self-Help Rehabilitation
Expatriate Experts                                      Staff Months     1.5    1.5       -       -       -        3      20,000     32.29      33.07          -         -          -        65.36
Training                                                    Set          0.5    0.5           -           -        1       5,D00       2.69      2.76          -         -          -         5.45
equipment                                                   Set           1        -      -       -       -        1      10,000      11.79         -                                        11.79
Subtotal Pilot Trials for Self-Help Rehabilitation                                                                                      46.77     35.83          -         -          -        82.60
D. Bregalnica Water Resource Study
Expatriate Experts                                      Staff Months      2       2       -       -       -        4      20,000     43.06      44.09          -         -                   87.15
National Experts                                        Staff Months      6       6       -       -       -       12       1.800      11.65     12.00          -         -          -        23.65
Training                                                    Set          0.7    0.3        -       -      -        1      15,000      11.31      4.98          -         -          -        16.29
Transportation                                              Set          0.7    0.3        -      -       -        1      20,000      15.08      6.62          -         -                   21.70
Computer Systems                                            Set          0.7    0.3        -      -       -        1      35,000      28.89     12.69               -               -        41.58
Specialist Hydrological Field Studies                       Set          0.7    0.3        -      -       -        1      20,000      15.07      6.61               -               -        21.68
Subtotal Bregalnica Water Resource Study                                                                                               125.06     87.00          -          -         -       212.05
E. Support for WMO Restructuring
Expateriate Experts                                     Staff Months      3       3       3       2       -       11      20,000      64.59     66.14      67.93     4651                   245,16
Equipment                                                   Set          0.7    0.3        -       -      -        1      50,000      41.27     18.12          -         -          -        59.40
Training                                                Staff Months     0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2           1      30,000       6.46      6.61       6.79       6.98      7.15        33.99
Subtotal Support for WMO Restructuring                                                                                                 112.32      90.88     74.72      53.48      7.15       338.55
Total                                                                                                                                     794.65    581.46     328.69     267.91    129.11     2,101.81



The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Irrigation Restructurng and Rehabilitation Project
Table 3. Technical Studies
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Quanttes                                                 Totals Including Contingencies ('000)
Unit     1998      1999     2000    2001       2002     Total    Unit Cost    1998      1999     2000      2001     2002     Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Alga.
Intemational Specialist                 Is         1.25      1.25        -        -        -       2.5     20,000     26.91      27.56        -                 -     54.47
National Experts                        Is          0.5       0.5        -        -        -         1     46,000     24.81      25.55        -        -        -     50.36
Equipment                               is           1          -        -        -        -         1      4,000      4.72         -         -        -               4.72
Subtotal Algae                                                                                                           56.43     53.11        -        -        -    109.54
B. Siphon Deroron
Intemational Expert                    ls         0.333     0.667                 -        -         1     42,000      15.06     30.88        -        -        -      45.94
National Institute                     Is         0.333     0.667        -        -        -         1     82,000     29.45      60.76        -        -        -      90.21
Equipment                               Is        0.333     0.667        -        -        -         1     26,000      10.21     20.94        -                 -      31.14
Subtotal Siphons Dteoation                                                                                               54.71    112.58        -                 -    167.29
C. rikves Intake Tunnel                   Is            -         1            -                       1    200.000          -    221.24                 -        -    221.24
D. Desn Floods                            Is            -         I        -        -        -         1     60,000          -     66.66        -        -        -      66.66
Total                                                                                                                     111.15    453.58         -        -        -    564.73
Annex B
Page 49



Annex B
Page 50
The former Yugoslav Repubioc of Macedonia
Inigation Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Taoie 4. Administeratlon and Monitoring
Detailed Costs
(USS)
Quantties                                                      Totals Including Contingencies ('000)
Unit       1998       199       2000      2001      2002       Total     Unit Cost    1998       1999      2000      2001       2002       Total
1. Invetment Costs
A. Project Management Team Support
1. ntemationaiTeam                              person-month        10         8         7          5         -          30      20.000    215.29    176.37    158.49    116.27           -      666.42
2. Loc iTeam                                    person-month       125       125        100        75        75         500       1,500    202.23    208.30    171.64    132.59    136.57        851.33
3. National Specialists                          man/month           3         3         3          3         -          12       1.800      5.82       6.00      6.18      6.36          -       24.37
4. Logistic Support
Office Equipment                                   Is                                                                                     9436       24.18         -         -                 11854
Vehices                                           No               5          -         -         -         -           5      25,000    128.15          -                   -          -      128.15
Subtotal Logistic Support                                                                                                                  222.51      24.18         -         -                 246.69
5. Training                                          Is                                                                                     32.33      33.22     22.79         -          -       88.34
Subtotal Project Management Team Support                                                                                                      678.19    448.08    359.10    255.22     136.57     1,877.16
B. Support for Design Institute
Vehides                                             Set              3                                                    3      25.000      76.91         -         -          -         -        76.91
Office Equipment                                    Set              1          -         -         -         -           1      50.000     58.97          -         -         -          -       58.97
Subtotal Support for Design Institute                                                                                                         135.88         -         -         -                  135.88
Total investment Costs                                                                                                                          814.07    448.08    359.10    255.22    136.57      2,013.04
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Project Management ULt                              Is                                                                                      67.80     69.83     71.93      74.08     76.31       359.94
B. Interpretation and Translation                      Is             0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2            1     75,000      16.95     17.46     17.98      18.52     19.08        89.98
C. Prqect AudIt                                        1               1          1                   1         1            5     10,000      11.30     11.64     11.99      12.35     12.72        59.99
D. Operational Cost for Design And Supervision        Set                                                                                     20.54      21.16     21.80     22.45      23.12       109.07
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                           116.59    120.09    123.69     127.40    131.22       618.99
Tots                                                                                                                                            930.66    568.17    482.79    362.62    267.79       2,632.02



The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Irrigation Restructuring and Rehabilitation Project
Table 5. Incremental Operational cost
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Quantities                         Unit                  Totals including Contingencies ('000)
Unit     1998      1999     2000     2001      2002     Total    Cost       1998       1999      2000       2001       2002      Total
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Implementation Support for WMOs                  dollar                                                                       100.00     100.00     100.00     100.00    100.00    500.00
Total                                                                                                                               100.00     100.00    100.00     100.00     100.00    500.00
Annex B
Page 51



Anex B
Page 52
Attachment IV: Detailed Procurement Plan
Procurement Plan: The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Irrigation Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project                                       dd/mm/yy
1  2         3            4              S                 6 Estimate Schedule
Description                                          Type      Number of    Estimated    Procurement   Document  Invitation to  Contract to
Identification number                                                                                                    Subpackages      Cost         Method       Preparation     Bid         Award
(in mil US$)
Civil Works
Rehabilitation of the Irrigation Scheme Tikves
CWC 101         -Reconstruction of the Joint Canal                                                         CW             I               0.79     NCB           30/7/1997    15/9/1991   15/10/1997
- Reconstruction of the Left Bank main canal section Kamen Dol - Nogaevci km 9+703 - km    CW            I                0.94      'B          31/10/1997   15/12/1997    15/2/1998
CWC 102        11+660, Right Bank main canal Ljubas-Marena km 9+703 - km 13+320 and Marena-Tremnik km
24+446 - km 27+621 (repairs of concrete lining and structures)
CWNS103         - Installation of equipment and measurement structures                                     CW             1               0.03      NS           30/9/1997    7/11/1997   15/12/199
Total for the first year                                                                                  3               1.76
- Reconstruction of the Left Bank main canal section Kamen Dol - Nogaevci (repairs of concrete  CW       1                1.62     ICB           31/3/1998    15/4/1998    15/6/1998
CWI 104        lining and structures)
- Reconstruction of theRight Bank main canal section Lubas-Marena; Marena-Tremnik (repairs of  CW        I                0.85    1SCB           30/7/1998       1/9/1998    1/10/1998
CWC 105        concrete lining and structures)
CWC 106         - Repairs to intake Tunnel Tisovec                                                         CW                             0.15 I     B           30/4/1998     7/7/1998    15/9/1998
CWNS 107       installation of equipment and measurement structures                                         CW            I               0.03      NS            30/4/1998     7/7/1991    15/9/1998
Total for the second year                                                                                 4               2.64
CWC 108         - Reconstruction of the Left Bank main canal section Kamen Dol - Nogaevci                  CW             I               0.94     t'CB          31/3/1999    30/4/1999    15/6/1999
. - Reconstruction of the Right Bank main canal section Lubas-Marena; Marena-Tremnik (repairs of  CW                         0.87     NCB           30/7/1998     1/9/1999   15/10/1999
CWC 109        concrete lining and structures)
CWNS 110       installation of equipment and measurement structures                                         CW            1                0.02     I;S           30/6/1999     1/8/1 999    15/9/1 999
Total for the third year                                                                                  3               1.83
CWI IllI         Reconstruction of the Left Bank main canal section Kamen Dol - Nogaevci (Main Repair)     OW            1                1.20     ICB           30/2/2000     7/4/2000    15/6/2000
CWN 112         -Reconstruction ofthe Left Bank main canal section (Minor Repair)                          CW             1               0.73     NCB           15/7/2000    15/9/2000    1/11/2000
CWI 113        -Reconstruction of the siphons for all main canal                                           CW            I                1.20     ICB          31/12/1999     7/3/2000    15/5/2000
Total for the fourth year                                                                                 3               3.13 
- Reconstruction of the Right Bank main canal section Lubas-Marena; Marena-Tremnik (repairs of  CW       1                0.90     NCB           30/4/2001     7/7/2001    15/9/2001
CWC 114        concrete lining)
Total for the fifth year                                                                                  1               0.90
Total for Irrigation scheme Tikves                                                         CW            14              10.26
R!habilitation of the Irrigation Scheme Bregalnica
- Reconstruction of the Left Bank main canal section Zmovci-Burilcevo, repairing of the concrete  CW      I               0.45     1,CB           30/7/1997    15/9/1997   15/10/199
CWC 201        lining, construction and repair of escapes
CWC 202        installation of equipment and measurement structures                                        CW             I               0.11     NCB           30/9/1997   15/10/1997   15/12/1997
Total for the first year                                                                                  2               0.56
CWC 203        - Reconstruction of the Left Bank main canal section Istibanja-Zmovci, repairing of the concrete  CW       1               0.71      CB           31/3/1998    15/4/1998    15/6/1998
CWC 203      lining, construction and repair of escapes
CWC 204         - Kalimanci Dam - Raising and grouting                                                     CW             I               0 29     ICB           30/7/1998      1/9/1998   15/10/1998
CReconstruction ofthe Right Bank main canal section Kocani-Mustafino repairing of the concrete  CW        I               0.29     bCB            30/7/1998     1/9/1998   I5/10/1998
CWC 205        lining, repair and construction of escapes
CWC206         Rehabilitation of Distribution Network                                                      CW            1                0.27     NCB           30/7/19981    1/9/19981  15/10/1998
Total for the second year                                                                                 4                1,57



CWC 207        -Reconstruction of the siphons for all main canal                                       CW            1              0.84      'B           15/1/1999    15/2/1999    15/4/1999
CWC 208        - Reconstruction ofthe Right Bank main canal section Kocani-Mustafino repairing ofthe concrete  CW    I              0.74     NSB           30/4/1999    15/6/1999    15/8/1999
lining, repair and construction of escapes
CWC 209        Rehabilitation of Distribution Network                                                 ICW            1              0.14  iNZB             30/7/1999     1/9/1999   15/10/1999
Total for the third year                                                                             3               1.72
CWC210         - Reconstruction ofthe Right Bank main canal section Kocani-Mustafino repairing ofthe concret1 CW                    0.60      NB           30/7/2000     1/9/2000   15/10/2000
lining, repair and construction of escapes
CWC211        - Reconstruction of the Right Bank main canal section (major repair)                I   CW             1              0.92     NZB           31/3/2000    15/4/2000    15/6/200C
Total for the forth year                                                                                              1.52
CWC 212        -Rehabilitation ofthe secondary distribution network from the Right Bank main canal     CW            1              0.85    NCB            30/7/200i    7/9/2001   15/10/2001
Total for the fifth year                                                           I                 3               0.85
otal for Irrigation scheme Bregalnica                                                   CW           12              6.22
Whabilitation of the Irrigation Scheme Polog                                                    __  ._    __  _ _               __         _._          _  
Gostivarsko Pole
CWC 301        Reconstruction of main canal and part ofthe irrigation network in Banjicko Pole         CW            1              0.36      NCB          30/3/1998    15/4/1998    15/6/19F8
CWC 302        Reconstruction of the irrigation network in Gostivarsko pole (from main canal to earth canal  CW      1              0.57      NCB          30/7/1998     1/9/1998   15/10/1998
CWNS 303       installation of equipment and measurement structures                              t     cw                            0.03      NS           30/7ii998     1i9/i998   I5/10il998
Total for the second year                                                          |                  3              0.96
OWC 304        Reconstruction of the irrigation network in Gostivarsko pole (from main canal to earth canal)  CW      1              0.59      NCB          30/7/1998    6/9/1998   15/10/1998
Total for the third year                                                                              1              0.59
(WC 305        Reconstruction of the network for separate irrigation                                   CW             I              0.94      NC8          31/3/2000    15/4/2000    15/6/2000
CWC 306        Small Rehabilitation Works                                                              CW            1              0.14      NCB          30/7/2000     1/8/2000   15/10/2000
Total for the fourth year                                                                            2               1.08
otal for Gostivarsko Pole                                                               CW            6              2.63
Xtovo scheme
CWC 401        Reconstruction of main canal Radiovee - Tetovo, intake and covered section              CW            1              0.42      NCR          31/3/1998   30/4/1998    15/6/199
CWC 402        Reconstruction of the irrigation network                                                CW            1              0.83      NCR          30/7/1998     1/9/1998   15/10/1998
CWNS 403       installation of equipment and measurement structures                                    CW            I               0.01      NS           30/7/1998    1191199   15/10/1998
Total for the second year                                                                __ _         3              1.26
CWC 404        Reconstruction of the main canal Tetovo - Bistrica                                       CW            1              0.87      NCB          31/3/1999    15/4/1999    15/6/1999
CWC 405        Reconstruction of the PS Rataje and irrigation network in that area                     CW            1              0.31      NCB          30/7/1999     7/9/1999   15/10/1999
CWNS 406       installation of equipment and measurement structures                                    CW             I              0.01      NS           30/7/1999    7/9/1999   15/10/1999
Total for the third year                                                                              3               1.20
CWC 407        Reconstruction of the main canal Tetovo - Bistrica (repairing of the concrete lining and structures)  CW  I           0.94    ?CB           31/3/2000    15/4/2000    15/6/2000
CWC 408        Reconstruction of the irrigation network                                                CW            1               0.26    NZB           30/7/2000     1/9/2000   15/10/2000
CWNS 409       installation of equipment and measurement structures                                                   I              0.01      NS           30/7/2000    1/9/2000   15/10/2000
Total for the fourth year                                                                             3              1.21                 7_320          1 20         560
CWC 410       . Reconstruction of the main canal Tetovo - Bistrica (repairing of the-concrete lining and structures)  CW  I   -     0.97      NCB          3I/3/200i    15/4/200     15/6/2001
CWC 411        Reconstruction of the irrigation network                                                CW            I              0.94      NCB          30/7/2001    31/8/2001   15/10/200l
Total for the fifth year                                                                              2              1.90
Total for Tetovo                                                                        CW           It              5.57
Fbtal for Polog                                                                                      17              8.20
ital Civil Works                                                                  -      _43                        24.69                     _           _
Panex B
Page 53



Anex B
Page 54
Goods and Vehicles
IS 501        Vehicle                                                                                     G            2               0.24       IS          15/12/1997    15/1/ 199   15/3/1998
IS 502        Hydrant, valves, pipes Tikves and Bregalnica                                                G            2               0.36       IS          15/12/1997    15/1/1 99   15/3/1998
IS 503        Measurement equipment( Tikves, Bregalnica, Polog)                                           G            2               0.43       IS          15/12/1997    15/1/199    15/3/1998
IS 504        Cement for self help pilot                                                                  G            2               0.25       IS           15/3/1998    15/5/1998    15/7/1998
NS505         Coarse Sand and Gravel for self help pilot                                                  G            2               0.09      N             15/8/1998    15/9/199    15/10/1998
NS506         Construction Equipment for self help pilot                                                  G            2               0.03      NS            15/8/1998    15/9/1998   15/10/1998
IS 507        Field and Office equipment                                                                  G            1               0.18       is           15/2/1998    15/3/1998    15/4/1998
IS 508        WUA Pilot Program, Equipment                                                                G            1               0.06       IS           15/2/1998    15/3/1998    15/4/1998
IS 509        Pilot Trial for Improving Irrigation Tequnique, Equipment                                   G            1               0.07       IS           15/2/1998    15/3/1998    15/4/1998
NS 510        Pilot Trials for Self-Help Rehabilitation, Equipment                                        G             i               0.01     N'S           15/3/1998    15/4/1998    15/6/1998
NS 511        Bregalnica Water Resource Study, Equipment                                                  G             I               0.04      NS           15/3/1998    15/5/1998    15/6/1998
IS 512        Support for WMO Restructureing, Equipment                                                   G            1               0.06       IS           15/4/1998    15/5/1998    15/6/1998
NS 513        Algae Study, Equipment                                                                      G             I               0.00      NS           15/4/1998    15/5/1998    15/7/1998
IS 514        Siphons Deterioration Study, Equipment                                                      0            1               0.03      NS            15/4/1998    15/5/1998    15/6/1998
Total Goods and Vehicles                                                                   G            20               1.85
(bnsultants' Services
Technical Assistance
QCBS/CS/101a /1   Algae Problem                                                                               CS            I               0.10     QZBS          15/12/1997    15/1/1998    15/3/1998
QCBS/CS/101b    Siphions Deterioration                                                                       CS            1               0.14    Q5BS          15/12/1997    15/1/1998    15/3/1998
QCBS/CS/101c    Design Floods                                                                                CS            1               0.07    QCBS          15/12/1997    15/1/1998    15/3/1998
QCBS/CS/I01d    Tikves Intake Tunnel                                                                         CS            I               0.22    QZBS          15/12/1997    15/1/1998    15/3/1991
QCBS/CS/101e    WMO Restructuring Support                                                                    CS            1               0.28    QZBS          15/12/1997    15/1/1998    15/3/1998
QCBS/CS/101f    WUA Pilot Program/Pilot improved Irrigation/Pilot self help                                  CS            1               1.38    QZBS          15/12/1997    15/1/1998    15/3/1998
QCBS/CS/ 101g    Bregalnica Water Study                                                                      CS            1               0.17    QZBS          15/12/1997    15/1/1998    15/3/1998
QCBS/CS/101h    PMU Support                                                                                  CS            1               0.78    QCBS          15/12/1997    15/1/1998    15/3/1998
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                                                          3.14
i_ign and Supervision (Non-Bank Financing)
SS/CS/102       Design and Supervision(l)                                                                  CS            I               0.42      SS          15/10/1997         N.A.  1 5/11/1 997
QCBS/CS/103      Design and Supervision (11)                                                                 CS            I               0.40     IBD          15/12/1999    15/1/2000    15/3/2000
Subtotal Design and Supervision                                                                                          0.82
rotal Consultants' Services                                                                             10       -       3.96
EMT National Staff
DT/PMT/00I-...   PMT Staff (Individual Contracts for national staff)                                                                       0.85     Drect          15/7/1997    15/8/1997    15/9/1997
TotahPMT National Staff                                                                                  0               0.85
Implementation Support for PMU and WMOs
QCBS/IOM/I01    Project Audit                                                                                                              0.06    QZBS           10/10/1998   10/12/1998     1/2/199
Other Procurement (Not Bank Financing)                                                                                   1.06     cther              N.A.         N.A.         N.A
Total Implementation Support for PMU and WMOs                                                                            1. Ii
tal for Macedonian Irrigation Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project                                                32.461
bite: IS: International Shopping, NS: National Shopping; QCBS: Quality and Cost Based Selection; SS: Sole Source
_/: QCBS/CS/  _a_hwould bepcuredinonepackagel1



Attachment V: Summary for Institutional Development, Technical Studies, and PMT Support (Base Cost)
Project                                                                             Time Frame,        Consultant service
ComponentS Descriptaon of Technical Assistance                                            and          Nanonal        Expat        Travel 8      Goods         other        Total Cost
Sub-Component                      Studies and Insoftueconal Strengthening               Unit Cost                       TA       Training        & Equip                      (USot
Component 2 Institutional Development
Support for Water       I PILOT PHASE
Users Associations     (a) Expatriate specialist (five visits) to:                        199811999
- review the status of progress made on the formation of WUAs
and their readiness for the tasks;                           16mm @ $20,000
- plan a strategy for creation, strengthening including training  = $320,000
needs and preparation of training materials;
- plan a time-bound program for implementation by local specialists
and reviewing its progress; and
- conduct training of implementation staff(refer list)
- advising PMU in the implementation of WUA program.
(b) Expatriate Gender issues Specialist (two visits) to advise on  2 mm @ $20,000
integration of women into WUAs and to train implementation team in  = $40,000
gender awareness (2 visits)
(c) Training of:
- WMO implementation staff
- farmers
- Overseas training/visits to successful WUAs                 LS $100,000
(d) Equipment                                                     LS $50,000
(e) Staff provided by WMO                                         In incremental O&M
cost component
11 EXPANSION PHASE
(a) Expatriate specialist (four visits) to:                       1999/2002
- Review progress, advise alterations in approach
- Prepare plan for expansion of WUAs in Tikve and Bregalnica   15mm @ $20,000
- Prepare training programme, identify resource persons        = $300,000
- Periodically review progress, update training, and advise
(b) Training of:
- vVMO implementation staff
- Overseas training/study tours
- farmers
- staff within the country                                     LS $80,000
(c) 72mm staff provided by WMO                                    In incremental O&M
cost component
(d) Contingency                                                   LS $110,000
Sub-Total                                                                                             660,000       200,000        50,000      110.000       1,020,000
Annex B
Page 55



Annex B
Page 56
Pilot Trials for        (a) Staff:
improving irrigation    National programme manager (24mm) supported by short-term           1998/1999
techniques               expatriate water ,management specialist inputs (6mm)
- examine the physical condition of the secondary and tertiaries  24mm @ $1800
for delivering water to fields;                             = $43,000
- review the irrigation methodology now practised by farmers,
and discuss with them improved techniques for saving
water (pressure and canal Irrigation areas)
- recommend rehabilitation of the canals and the irrigation   6mm @ $20,000
methodology to be adopted, the laRter having farmers'        = $120,000
concunrence (canalet areas only)
- install and monitor different water metering devices (pipes)
- prepare a training program for farmers and staff;
- identify monRoring requirements, data to be collected;
frequency of collection from both control & pilot area, and staff
requirements;
- review the progress at the second visit, make changes if
needed, etc.; and
- submit a report on impact of trials during the third visi.
(b) Temporary staff for record keeping                             LS $20,000
(c) Training
- training of farmers and staff;                               LS $15,O00
- Equipment (water measurement and monitoring instruments)     LS $60,000
(d) Transportation (vehicle hire or mileage)                       LS $30,000
(e) Staff provided by WMO                                          In incremental O&M
cost component
Sub-Total                                                                                   63,000       120,000        15,000        60,000        30.000         288,000
1998/1999
Pilot trials for        (a) Expatriate specialist in participatory to assist in drawing up  3mm@ $ 20,000
self-help rehabilitation     procedures and to train WUA staff                               = $ 60,000
(b) Input from expatriate Water Management specialist from Pilot    Shared with Pilot trials above
Trials, for design manuals and training
(c) Training
- WMO staff, WUA foremen and WUA members                        LS $5,000
(d) Equipment                                                      LS $10,000
(c) Staff provided by WMO                                          In incremental O&M
cost component
(e) Materials                                                      In rehabilitation
component
Sub-Total                                                                                                 60,000         5,000        10,000            ...         75,000
Modelling Studies:                                                                           1998/1999
(a) of water resources                                                                       12mm@ 1,800
of Bregalnica irrigation                                                                     = $ 22,000
scheme to develop a      (a) National team 12mm                                             4mm@$ 20,000
simulation model for     (b) Intemational specialist 4mm                                     = $80,000
optimal real-time        (c) Training, Intemational                                         LS $15,000
management of           (d) Transportation and other operating costs                        LS $20,000
water resources          (e) specialist software                                            LS $35,000



(b) R Vardar below power  (f) specialist hydrological field studies                       LS $20,000
outlet                 Sub-Total                                                                                 22,000       80,000        15,000        35,000       40,000         192,000
Support for Re-        (a) Expatriate specialists to
organization of WMOs       - review the working of WMOs, structure, finances including water  1998/2002
charges estimation and collection, efficiency, etc., and assist  8mm over period
preparation of annual performance indices                    =$160,000
(b) Water law Specialist to assist new PvvME drafting Water Codes  1998
3mm @ $20,000
=$60,000
(c) Equipment for WMOs                                           LS $50,000
(d) Language training for WMO staff                              LS $30,000
,Sub-Total                                                                                            220,000        30,000       50,000                      300,000
Subtotal Institutional Development                                                                                                                          1,875,000
Component 3. Technical Studies
Algae Problem          Consultancy contract to a local institution (1) for:
- review of the problem at site, recommending measures
to be adopted for testing,
- apply the recommended measure after obtaining approval of PMU,  1998
- observing impact of the treatment over one irrigation season,
- advise different treatment if resufts unsatisfactory and try
In the next inigation season,
- collect all necessary data for comparative evaluation,
- submit a report onthe findings and recommend measures ,and
- procure all materials needed
1) Local institution would need about 2.5mm of intemational
specialist assistance
Sub-Total                                                                                46,000        50,000                      4.000                      100,000
Studies of Siphon       ConsuHtancy contract to a specialist firm toall main canal siphons on
Deterioration          the three schemes, and report on deterioration, specifically:      1998
- physical examination intemal surface, specifically the steel lining
- video intemal examination of small diameter siphons
- measurement of dynamic head loss across siphon, and calculation
of rugosityy coefficient
- static measurement of water leakage
- where leakage is significant investigate cause and extemal inspection
report on condiion of each siphon in sufficient detail for tendering
Sub-Total                                                                                82,000        42,000                     26,000                      150,000
Estimation of Design    A consuitancy contract to be awarded to:
Floods                  - review the availability and reliability of hydological data for
Tikves and Kalamanci dams;                                      1998
- review the methodology/software in use by the decision makers for
estimation of design and maximum probable floods, and
recommend (if required) better technique;
- carry out the assessment of two floods for the two dams;
- comoare with the previous design floods adopted ,and
- work out the sufriciency or otherwise of the spillway capacity
Sub-Total                                                                                60,000                                                                60,000
Annex B
Page 57



AnnexB
Page 58
Study of Altemative    A local consuiting firm to:
Alignment for           - carry out geological and geophysical investigations for selecting  1998/1999
Tikves Intake tunnel      an altemative alignment to replace the inlet portion of
the tunnel releasing water for Tikves irrigation scheme, and
- prepare a feasibilty report giving implementation methodology
and cost estimates
Sub-Total                                                                              100,000                                  100,000                      200,000
Component 4. ProJect Administration and Management
Support for Project    Project Management Unit (PMU) to be created for administering     199812002
Management Unit           the project, the activities to include:
- overall control and supervision of the project implementation,
- rehabilitation planning and overseeing the output and
providing decisions sought by the consultancy firms,
- overseeing WMOs'
system management for O&M, measurement and scheduling of
deliveries and monitoring, including data collection for water
use efficiency (Expatriate expert for 12 months to assist)
- financial control, cost accounting of project investments,
and coordination wih donors
- review of procurement documents, and evaluation reports by
by consultants and award contracts
(a) National staff                                               500 mm @ 1,500
= $750,000
(b) Expatriate assistance, Chief Technical Advisor (8 mm),       30 mm @ 20,000
Construction Supervision (4mm), Procurement (4mm),           = $600,000
Financial Control (4mm) and unallocated (4mm).
(c) Translation and interpretation services                      LS $75,000
(d) Pool of national specialists                                 12mm @ $1800
= $22,000
(e) Operational Cost of PMU (incl vehicles etc)                  LS $400,000
(f) Equipment and vehicles
- computers, design, office & survey equipment                LS $100,000
- 5 4WD vehicles                                              LS $125,000
(g) Training of PMU and Ministry staff                           LS $80,000
(h) Support for Design Instiute
-3 vehicles @$25,000                                          LS $75,000
- office and survey equipment                                 LS $50,000
Sub-Total                                                                              847.000       600,000       80,000       350,000      400,000       2,277,000
Subtotal Project Administeratlon (EXCEPT Design and Supervision)  I_I_2,277,000
TOTAL                                                                                                1,220,000     1,832,000     345,000       685,000      580,000       4,662,000



Annex B
Page 59
Attachment VI
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1. The project provides for the rehabilitation of the three irrigation systems - the Tikves for 13,000 ha in
central southeast part of the country, the Bregalnica for 25,510 ha in central northeast part, and Polog for
9,200 ha in northwestern part of the country. The three systems commenced irrigation in the seventies.
There has been no visible or recorded adverse impact on environment as a result of continued irrigation
by these schemes. The Hydrometeorological Institute, Skopje, monitors the quality of water at a number
of stations, but these are not necessarily linked to the locations where irrigation supplies are withdrawn
or where the outflow comes back to the river. Tikves, Bregalnica, and Polog systems draw their supplies
from the Tikves reservoir on the Crna river, Kalimanci reservoir on the Bregalnica river, and Mavrovo
reservoir on the Mavroski river. Mavrovo reservoir depends almost entirely on diverted water from
many streams through a system of feeder canals and tunnels. Polog also utilizes the summer flows of
Vardar which are small. The proposed environmental monitoring is to fill this gap in information. The
Tikves and Bregalnica suffer from formation of algae which creates problems in the operation of these
systems. The monitoring data would also be useful in the solution of the algae problem.
Scope of Monitoring
2. The monitoring shall be limited to the quality of water. Samples will be collected at the following
locations:
(a) from the rivers CGna and Bregalnica at locations which are approachable and just upstream of the two
reservoirs.
(b) from the Vardar river, upstream of the Banichko Pole canal intake, downstream of the junction of the
Raven hydropower station, downstream of the Gostivar irrigation area, and downstream of the Tetovo
irrigation area.
(c) from the main canals of each area (Tikves, Bregalnica, Banichko, Gostivar, and Tetovo) at a
convenient station near the intake of each canal.
(d) from the Crna river midway and downstream of the Tikves irrigated area, and
(e) from Bregalnica river midway and downstream of the Bregalnica irrigated area.
Frequency and Duration of Sampling and Testing
3. The sampling shall commence in April and end in November each year. Sample will be taken at three
month intervals. All the samples will be tested for quality pertinent to environment. The participating
WMO shall propose the constituents to be tested. The sampling and testing would continue under the
project for five years.



Annex B
Page 60
Reporting
4. The participating WMO will submit a report on the sampling and testing for each year by January of
the following year, giving an opinion for each scheme if it caused any adverse impact.
Responsibility of the participating WMO
5. The WMO shall be responsible for all sampling equipment and personnel and the cost of quality test
and presentation of the reports. The participating WMO shall be responsible for transport and access to
suitable points on the river sections, etc. for sampling.
Responsibility of the PMT
6. The PMT shall arrange for participating WMO's access to the main canals.



Annex C
Page I
OVERVIEW OF INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
A. Institutions Responsible for Water Resources
1.    Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy (MAFWE). The MAFWE has general
and overall responsibility for water resources regulation and management in the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, in particular for water resources planning (refer to Section III below) and
granting abstraction licences. In addition the Ministry, through its Department for Water Economy
(DWE) has direct responsibility for the use of water for irrigation, for river regulation, erosion, flood
control and drainage. The MAFWE is also responsible for management and control of groundwater
resources use and development.
2.    Water Management Organisations (WMOs). WMOs were established on a scheme and district
basis with local responsibility for management of irrigation schemes. There are 26 WMOs constituted
and registered under the 1981 Water Law, and a further 10 with a different background. WMOs are
differentiated into two classes: (a) the main WMOs which own the main facilities, the dam, diversion
and main canals, and often have additional regional responsibility for river control, erosion protection,
drainage and flood control and (b) minor WMOs whose responsibility is limited to distribution of water
from the secondary distribution system.
3.    Water Management Association (WMA). In 1978 the 26 main WMOs collectively formed the
WMA to provide technical backup to its members and representation of the industry to government
when required.
4.    Ministry of Urban Planning, Construction and Environment (MUPCE).  The MUPCE is
responsible for municipal and industrial water supplies, waste water treatment and also for the
environment. Public municipal enterprises for water treatment and distribution are also responsible to
MUPCE.
5.    Ministry of Health (MoH). The MoH is responsible for the control of drinking water quality, for
setting standards and for monitoring the quality of the distributed water.
6.    Ministry of Economy (MoE).  The MoE is responsible for electric power, including
hydroelectric generation, but subject to overall planning by the MAFWE.
7.     Hydro-Meteorological Institute (HMI) is a Public Government Enterprise, and as such reports
to, and is directly financed by central government. HMI is charged with responsibility for monitoring
water resources and the climate, and collects and maintains records of river (and lakes) discharge and
level, sediment, water quality and pollution. HMI is also responsible for flood forecasting and warning.
8.    Geohydro Projek is established in a similar position to HMI, but with technical responsibility for
groundwater.
9.    The Water Development Institute (WDI). WDI was created in 1952 by the Government as an
institute for planning and study of water resource issues. In 1986 it was changed to the Institute for
Science and Investigation of Water Resources, Erosion and Pedology, and became self-financing.
Although it now uses the title WDI, the institute is unchanged and remains a Scientific Institute related
to, and a member of the Senate of the University St. Kiril and Metodij of Skopje. WDI effectively



Annex C
Page 2
operates as a private sector consulting firm in the field of irrigation and water resource development,
and is now the leading organisation in this field in the country.
10.   Melioprojek was established in 1952 by the Government with specific responsibility for
investigation, planning and design of major irrigation schemes in the country. On completion of six
major irrigation developments Melioprojek, whilst remaining a government owned organisation,
transferred to the WMA and became its technical back-up unit.
B. The Legal Framework
11.   At the moment the 1981 Water Law still governs the water sector. Under this law the MAFWE
is charged with overall responsibility for water resources in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
as stated above. Under the Law MAFWE has principal and overall responsibility for water resource
planning, for issuing agreements for water use, such as for irrigation , power, drinking water etc, and for
issuance of abstraction licences which set out the conditions of use, limitations etc.
12.   The 1981 Water Law provides the legal basis for operation of the irrigation system by the
WMOs, it specifies their responsibilities and tasks, and it sets out the irrigation code and regulations, the
including basis of water charges, the rules and penalties covering abuse of the systems and non-payment
of fees, and the basis of the relationships, and contracts between, the WMOs and water users,
Agrokombinats and private farmers. The WMOs themselves were established under the former socialist
system as self-managed, self-financed public entities. They have full responsibility for their own
management, for technical operation of the irrigation systems and collection of water charges.
13.   The 1981 Water Law provided for user representation in irrigation management through "SIZ"
organisations which functioned at different levels, from district to national. The SIZ organisation had
two key functions: (i) it obtained public funds from central government through general taxation, which
were used to fund studies and action for public benefit, including small irrigation schemes, (ii) it was the
forum through which users interests were represented in important decisions, particularly the annual
setting of water charges. SIZ and the WMOs would agree water charges, and these would be presented
to Parliament for approval.
14.   The 1994 Constitution for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia cancelled the SIZ
organisation. This has had two consequences: (i) the sector is left without the support of the funds
obtained from general taxation, (ii) there is no longer any effective user representation neither at the
national level, nor locally with individual WMOs. This is particularly important with regard to setting
water charges.
15.   A new Water Law is under preparation, the draft has been approved by Government and will be
presented to Parliament during 1997, and is expected to become law by the end of that year. The
proposed new law will completely replace, update and upgrade the 1981 law, and will replace the gaps
lost with repeal of the SIZ provisions. The main provisions are:
* All WMOs will covert into a Public Water Management Enterprise (PWME), there will be a single
PWME, integrating all WMOs, but it is intended the irrigation schemes will be managed by separate
economic units of the PWME. Under the existing Public Enterprise Law this conversion should be
completed by February 1997, but is delayed.



Annex C
Page 3
*  There is provision for creation of Water Users Associations (WUAs) under the proposed new law,
and to these the PWME may pass responsibilities for operation and management of minor
components of the irrigation systems.
*  A new Water Fund will be established from general taxation which will supplement water charges,
and be used for general expenses in the general national interest, including maintenance of the main
facilities, such as the dams, water resource planning and environmental tasks.
*  The Hydro-Meteorological Institute has been specifically included under the proposed law, and their
hitherto independent task of monitoring integrated into the sector plan.
*  The PWME will be assigned responsibility for drawing-up new regulations and standards for the
sector, and this will be amongst their first tasks. These regulations will include the irrigation code
and procedures for calculating and agreeing water charges. The PMWE will also be charged with
preparation of the national water resources masterplan.
*  The MAFWE will be the regulator of the sector, with particular responsibility for appointment of the
PWME Director and Board and approval of accounts and key tasks such as the water masterplan,
irrigation code and other regulations.
III Water Resource Management
16.    Overall responsibility for planning and management of water resources (including groundwater)
lies with MAFWE. A water masterplan was prepared in 1975 by international consultants, this provided
a development plan which integrated new dams for river regulation with irrigation, power, industrial
and domestic requirements, and this work was the basis of the 1977 Vardar/Axios River Basin Plan, also
by international consultants. The 1975 masterplan projected demands up to 2025, showing the
following water balances in million cubic metres.
Catchment                 Annual demand                 Resources        Surplus
Dom/indust  Irrigation   Bio min   Retum flow   River flow
Current demand, average year
Vardar            439        643        843       479         4771       3325
Cmi Drim          25         41         202       28          1681       1441
Strumica          47         124        28        62          177        40
Current demand, dry year
Vardar            439        643        843       479         3340       1894
Cmi Drim          25         41         202       28          1345       1105
Strumica          47         124        28        62          106        -31
2025 demand, average year
Vardar            1146       1835       843       1284        4771       2231
Cmi Drim          55         165        202       77          1681       1336
Strumica          58         135        28        73          177        29
2025 demand, dry year
Vardar            1146       1835       843       1284        3340       750
Cmi Drim          55         165        202       77          1345       1000
Strumica          58         135        28        73          106        -42
17.    The major catchments will have surplus water into 2025, but local shortages which could occur
in dry years will be met by construction of additional storage reservoirs or transfers. Clearly much of
the underlying assumptions now require review, and WDI has been instructed by MAFWE to update the
plan.



Annex C
Page 4
18.   The major part of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia's water resources comprise
international rivers or lakes. These were covered by international treaties and agreements made by the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and its neighbours, and which have been recognised by the
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.



Annex D
Page I of 11
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND
RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ECONOMIC AND FARM MODEL ANALYSIS
Introduction
1.     Quantifiable economic benefits of the Project for the economic analysis are derived primarily
from increases in agricultural production due to: (a) increase in yields with secure irrigation water for
currently non-irrigated or poorly irrigated area; (b) prevention of the future decline of irrigation areas
through improvement in the physical infrastructure; and (c) conversion to higher value crops due to the
increase in availability and reliability of irrigation water.
2.     Yield. Separate crop models have been prepared for Tikves, Bregalnica and Polog, considering
the substantial difference in soils and climates (Table A). For each main crop the following three cases
are analyzed: (a) without irrigation; (b) with inadequate irrigation; and (c) with adequate irrigation in
order to enable more detailed comparison between with- and without- project scenarios. Although
irrigation is supplementary for many crops, these models show that improved water delivery would
substantially increase the yields and consequently the financial returns of all crops. The benefits are
particularly important on high value crops such as fruits and vegetables and, to a lesser extent, fodder
crops.
3.     Prevention of Further Deterioration is considered to be a major project benefit in Tikves
where the schemes have deteriorated since early 1990s, and to a lesser extent in Bregalnica. With the
project, deterioration would be stopped and the irrigated areas are assumed to recover their historical
levels before deterioration (Tikves, Bregalnica) or levels of part of the scheme already rehabilitated
(Polog). The detailed scenarios for the three schemes are summarized below:
(a) In Tikves, the deterioration since early 1990s led to an increase of unirrigated area from
1,627 in 1990 to 5,636 hectares in 1996 (or an increase from 13 percent to 43 percent of
total service area). Without the Project, the Government and WMOs anticipate that the
entire system could operate at only 25 percent of the designed capacity in the next 10 years
due to the damages in the main and secondary canals, and that the irrigated areas would
drop from the current 57 percent to 29 percent. In addition, about 50 percent of irrigated
area would suffer from poor irrigation. With project, irrigated areas would recover their
1989 levels (Table B).
(b) In Bregalnica, irrigated areas have substantially reduced since 1990 (from 59 percent in
1990 to 29 percent in 1996) due to several factors such as deteriorated irrigation
infrastructure, loss of agricultural market, and shortage of water. While it is difficult to
exclusively identify the effect of the deteriorated irrigation schemes on the decrease of the
irrigated area, a conservative estimate suggests a further decrease of 25 percent of the
current situation over the next 10 years, as summarized in Table C. The impacts of project
partial rehabilitation has been assumed as follows:
*  Irrigation area in the left bank, where the scheme is to be entirely rehabilitated,
would recover its 1989 level;



Annex D
Page 2 of 11
*  In the upper right bank, the rehabilitation would concentrate on the main canals and
selected secondary network, only 30 percent of benefits from full rehabilitation has
been assumed;
*  The lower right bank would benefit from the rehabilitation of the main canal
upstream which would decrease leakage in the upper part and increase availability
of water in the lower part.
(c) In Polog, no further deterioration is considered under the without-project scenario, as the
scheme have already deteriorated to the lowest possible condition. With project, the
irrigated area is assumed the level of the Radiovce - Tetovo section of the scheme which has
been rehabilitated recently (see Table D).
4.     Cropping Pattern (Tables E, F and G for the three schemes). Cropping patterns in the project
scenario have been developed in consultation with local agronomists based on existing and historical
cropping patterns and agronomic patterns under reasonable assumptions concerning the marketing and
availability of irrigation water. The historical statistics on cropping patterns clearly demonstrate that
both farrners and Agro-Kombinats adjust their crops to the water availability situation. In Tikves, it is
anticipated that irrigated grapes (wine and table grapes) and vegetables would resume the 1990 level, as
market in neighboring reestablishes. Alfalfa is also expected to increase as livestock will have a greater
importance. In Bregalnica, considering the limited demand for rice and competition with imported
cheaper rice, the area under rice would remain at a minimum level of about 3,000 ha. At the same time,
vegetables and fodder crops would replace wheat and barley on substantial areas. In Polog, the
historical comparative advantage for livestock production and the recent increases of milk and beef
production with good marketing opportunities would be boosted by increased fodder production as a
result of improved irrigation.
5.    Prices. The prices used in the economic and financial analysis are summarized in Table H.
Financial prices have been converted to economic prices in the financial crop models to obtain economic
crop models. These economic prices are import parity prices for the major tradable outputs and inputs
such as rice, maize, wheat, fertilizers.I For products which are not directly traded (grape, fruits, and
fodder crops), the financial price has been used. In Polog scheme, the value of fodder crops has been
converted into the value of final animal products such as milk and meat. The major distortion appears
with rice which financial price (MDen 20 per kg) could be compared to its import parity price (MDen 11
per kg ), reflecting the current protection of the rice. In the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
inflation rate is contained at the international level in 1996 and the first half of 1997, (1.3 percent in the
country and 2.0 percent in G-5 countries on average), no major increase of prices of non-tradable goods
relative to those of tradable goods are anticipated in the short and medium termns.
6.    In order to calculate economic costs of rehabilitation, a conversion factor of 0.95 has been used
for construction work, corresponding to a weighted average between I (the standard conversion factor
for material and skilled labor) and 0.8 (conversion factor for unskilled labor) considering the current
high level of unemployment.
Economic Analysis
7.     Methodologies.  Future cropping patterns have been projected and multiplied by these
economic crop models to calculate the future net benefits streams. Considering the current marketing
' (An exchange rate of Denar 44 = US$ I has been used, before the devaluation of July 1997 as all financial prices had been
collected before this period).



Annex D
Page 3 of 11
difficulties and time required for private farmers to update the irrigation equipment, conservative
assumptions on the expected speed of the increase in the irrigation areas (10 years from the start of the
project) are used. These streams are completed with the economic investment costs and incremental
O&M costs and economic rates of returns over the next 20 years and net present values are calculated,
using an opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent.
8.     Economic Return. Under these assumptions, the estimated economic rate of return (ERR)
would be the following: 39 percent for Tikves, 21 percent for Bregalnica, and 36 percent for Polog
(calculations in Table I). Net Present Value (NPV) of investment in Tikves, Bregalnica, and Polog
estimated at 12 percent is US$ 23.5, 3.6 and 14.8 million respectively. High economic return in Tikves
is due mainly to the large portion of high value crops (i.e., grapes), which has already captured a strong
market. The ERR of the entire project, including all costs of institutional development, technical studies
and administration is estimated at 29 percent and the NPV at US$ 37.8 million.
9.     As stated in para. 1, economic benefits of the Project are accrued through the following three
channels: (a) return of the currently unirrigated or poor irrigated land to full irrigation through the
rehabilitation of deteriorated systems (Channel 1); (b) prevention of future decline (or collapse) of
irrigation areas through improvement in the physical infrastructure (Channel 2); and (c) conversion to
higher value crops due to the increase in availability and reliability of irrigation water (Channel 3).
Channel I would be the most important factors: it would account for about 40 percent, 50 percent and
30 percent of the expected economic benefit respectively in Tikves, Bregalnica and Polog. Chatnel 2
vould be particularly important in Tikves accounting for about 30 percent of the total economic benefit,
as the system is expected to further deteriorate fairly quickly without the project. Channel 3 would also
account for the large part of the economic benefit, particularly in Bregalnica and Polog: respectively
about 30 percent, 43 percent and 69 percent of the expected economic benefit would accrued the crop
conversion in Tikves, Bregalnica and Polog. However, these assumptions are quite reasonable. In
Tikves, with irrigation, certain areas would be converted to grapes, which has already captured market.
In Bregalnica, crop conversion from rice to other crops such as fodder and vegetables are already on-
going as price support for rice has been discontinued. In Polog, conversion from rain-fed wheat to
irrigated alfalfa and maize for livestock purposes is expected with the rehabilitation of irrigation
scheme.
10.   Sensitivity Analysis. Given considerable uncertainties attached to the assumptions used in the
economic analysis, sensitivity analysis was undertaken to test for the risks in marketing and
implementation delays.
(a) In the analysis, it is assumed that the farmers would switch to higher value crops as a result
of improved access to irrigation water, improved agricultural practices, and re-established
market. There is a risk, however, that this may not occur due mainly to the marketing
problem. To test uncertainty, the economic return reducing the benefit accrued from crop
conversion, Channel 3, by 50 percent (100 percent for Bregalnica), was estimated.
(b) Delay in establishing WUAs and restructuring WMOs would also be a major risk. To test
such uncertainty, the economic return was estimated using (i) a two-year delay in achieving
the expected benefits; and (ii) a reduction by 20 percent of the expected benefits due to
restrictions imposed on top farmers not willing to pay the water fees.
11.   The analysis revealed that the Bregalnica would be sensitive to these two risks: ERR would drop
to 13 percent under both cases of marketing difficulties and two years' implementation delay, making
the investment marginally economic. On the other hand, rehabilitation of Tikves and Polog schemes



Annex D
Page 4 of 11
would maintain strong economic viability even under these two risks. Table I summarizes the estimated
ERRs under this economic analysis.
Financial Analysis
12.   Illustrative Farm Models. The farm models were developed through interviews with farmers
within the project areas to illustrate typical beneficiaries. Farm models are defined on the basis of their
size: small farmers with less than 1 hectare; medium with I to 3 hectares; and large with more than 3
hectares of land.
13.   Constraints in Input. To take full advantage of improved irrigation, farmers would have to
increase the use of annual inputs such as chemicals, fertilizers, improved seeds requiring additional
financial resources. This incremental requirement would range from a minimum of MDen 7,000 per
hectares (wheat in Bregalnica) to a maximum of MDen 68,000 per hectares (table grape in Tikves).
However, interviews with farmers revealed that this requirement would not be a major constraint, as
they could utilize savings cumulated in early 1980s. Smaller farmers would also rely on overseas
remittances from relatives (very important in Polog). However, resources for larger investments such as
large animals (e.g., milk cows) or the replacement of their farm equipment are deemed to be constraints
due to the lack of access to credit. Upgrading irrigation equipment is also perceived important but not
critical.
14.   Impact on Farming Families. Table K summarizes the project impact on the farming families
by the size of the farming land. It is demonstrated that the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes would
bring important financial impacts to the private farms: on average about MDen 23,000 of incremental
benefit per hectares, or about 50 percent increase of the current farming income. The return per
labor/day would also increase by an average of 18 percent from MDen 968 to 1,138. In addition, these
farm models suggest that the labor requirements would not be a constraint in the area, -and interviews
with farmers endorsed this point. The table also demonstrated that the project benefits would generally
increase and the per hectares net benefit would decrease with the size of the farmn. This could be
attributable to the higher level of intensity of small farms to compensate the small size of the holdings
which otherwise would not be sufficient to sustain the family.
15.   Impact on Agro-Kombinats (AKs). The Project would also benefit seven AKs in Tikves.
While it is difficult to estimate project benefits on each of these AKs, an illustrative model is developed
to demonstrate the project impacts on AKs, based on the data of Agro-Kombinat ZPT Dubrovo. This
AK owns about 520 hectares of land and mainly cultivates wine grape for either wine or table grape and
produce milks; however, due to the deterioration of the irrigation schemes, the area for grape production
has decreased from 242 hectares in 1990 to 100 hectares in 1996. Upon completion of rehabilitation, the
AK could take advantage of improved irrigation by the following plans: (i) replanting an additional 50
hectares of grape over a period of about 10 years, as about 120 hectares of grape vines are dead; (ii)
growing high value vegetables on about 50 hectares; increase the area for fodder crops to 80 hectares in
order to provide feed to milking cows; and (iv) replanting 25 hectares of cherries. The analysis,
summarized in Table K, suggests that the AK would generate additional farming revenue of US$
340,000 or $660 per hectare per year.
16.   Impact on Affordability of Water Fees. In the farm model, the required water fee relative to
the gross value of the fanning products has been calculated as a proxy for the capacity
and affordability to pay. These figures currently range from 11 percent -13 percent in Bregalnica to 16
percent in Tikves. With the project, calculations show that these percentages would decrease to 9-10
percent in Bregalnica and Polog and 12 percent in Tikves. However, these percentages are still higher



@:~~~~~4    0 ::% :,~                                  -:
oo~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~             ~' :S   ""  t ::t :" :o : l- :                  :D
.>      A  :  . = 1  t aN  -T o  o A t^F,       -- ON 0X tn k^ c       C4 C- m a, Zn  m           
2 >   n   :  |   W :8   8 8 o~        ( o N en oT on Om o         o o4 'I o o               l
i  0 : . .,. 1.:o. O.u o o  o ..................  . -  . . 
r i~~~~~~~~e on.  m                           .     n t- . :, t- 0%. en      ,, ,. M.1 t.. ,.- -0
ed                     od =n   O .                                                                 w0 M^w>^-              
M    @   E   :  :::    . w   1 ::   ::   C.  :   :In.   :                 .. ::  +  :    .t E    .
X D     9;  a        o^ ^ t6 o.JAt>_ t             O\ en'            00 'tL.-  
ti-
Y Wo~~~~I .. . E.3:  .       ..<............. ..=.r 
5~~~~~~~C C> C> Q t    C                                            e  i 0 C) C>  (



Annex D
Page 6 of 11
Table B: With and Without Project Scenario in Tikves
....... ___._._. __...._           A I      i~tZh:Sufficien    weaith Insufficien  riain           Ae  nt  erriate
0   0 j0tlA        tct|~~~~~~Ar            I-  enlen tg   0|Aatg d|
rrtS itu   tin            -29%  (3,770- ha)                          (42%  (5,460 ha
Situation -inP:Y:10and thereafter  15%: (1 885 ha)           15% (1,885ha)                         71%(9,23 0 ha)
....                             .5i                                                              1%i:E (%2:ESEEiEiiE;  e-EE :;f:EEE :: ;:::  ;-i:;5:: ;:;:;003
OmSit      inQ:P Y1 0 ad thereafter  87% (11,3 10 ha) 0ne _r%                                        1      3%(1,690 ha).
,w itht   proje t                          -                   _                                     _ __:_-._        _ _
Table C: With and Without Project Scenarios in Bregalnica
IArea withSufficient  J: Area With 1Insufficient Irrigation ~   rea not rriae
.......0  .Egj:0f0000fl00:00000l00000000|400000000- .....:000|00t* ..t                                      tl0000000ha  At6d.ii nt00
.   . .   .. .   ..     Eii    
Current Situatiea                     3   (34,28 ha)            13%  (3,278 ha)                      74% (18980 ha)
Situation::in PYI0 and thereafter f: 10% (2,506 ha)            10% (2,506 ha)                       80% (20,148 ha)
w ih out p roect__                       _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _ _  _   _  _ _  _  _ _  _
iuatio in mPYIO and thereafte r  59%:(14,927 ha)               0%                                    41% (10,5831ha)
Table D: With and Without Project Scenario in Polog*
..... .. -:-:0:;iSS::-:0:Areawith Sufficien   Atea with Insufficient rrigtir
..__ ........ ____.....__.      J   rrig atio n.*m..                                                    o   r i a e
CMCurrent:Situ tion                  19%o (1,576 ha)           199% (1,576 ha)                      62%  (5 159 ha)
Situaizition -in F-Y:10 and th ereafter :-19% (1,576 0ha)     49%(1,576ha)3                         62%0 (5,159 ha)  p0
w t o utpro ject                    _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _     _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _     _  _  _ _  _  _  _
Situation i FY10 and tliereafter  7     (1   h   0                                     27%:  2 ,:  0  ha)
* Only area concerned with the project



Annex
Page 7of II
Table E: Cropping Patterns in Tikves
1990           r          Present           PYlO Wit  rjc
:%      Hectare   J                 IHectare           %      Heictare
_   hi_e_____e________               35         4,550,           25'        3,250          35       4,550
Table Grape                         $8        1,405650                                    8       1,4
5          602                        :260:650650
Tomato .                  ~~~5        650              2          260           .5         650:
Watermelon                ~~~~~~2 260                  I           130           2         260
Wheat                     ~~ ~ ~~~~~19  2,470                    I 1170:         9       1,170,
Maize                               226                                     390           5650
-altfa                             7          910            .7           910.        :14        1,820:
-Orchards (Peache0s),                4          520;            4           .520           4        520
Sub-Total                   ~~~       ~~~87  11,310      58:        7,540          87      11,310
N 4r - rr g ted    C rops                  _  _ _  _ _    _  _ _  _ _   _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _
~Wine Grape                         2           260             6           780.          2         260
Table Grape.                        1           130             2           260:          :I        130
Wheat:                              4:          520            21         2,730           4520
Alfalfa0                                                        0-0
Orchards (Peaches)                  I           1I 1:                       130           1         130
Fallow                              5650                       12         1,560           5650.
Sub-T0tal              13        1,690           ~~~~~~~~~~~~42  5,60:      13:       1,690
.Total Scheme                         :100       13,00010130000                                       3,0
Table F: Cropping Patterns in Bregalnica
:1990                    Present          f        PYIO With Project
%   Hectare           %       Hectare.            %      Hectare-
Irrigated    Crtops__             _ _ _  _  _ _ _  _ _   __  _ _   ___                              _ _  _ _
Rice                               28         7,122            15       3,833           1 5        3,833
Paprika                             3          734              1:       987             494
Tomato                    ~~~~~~~~3 734                128                      4          964
Wheat                    ~~~        ~~~~~13:  3,207    3779                    164,120
Maize,                              3          658              1:       377             6,        1,4655
Alfalfa                             5        :1,231             3        716           :10         2,462
Vineyard                            5         1,241             1         276:           4         1,129
Snib-Total                             59       14,927            2,6      65559                     14,927
Non-Irrigated Crlops          _______________
-Wht                               24       :6,11a            43      10,952:           24:        6,113
Maize                               1259                        1354                     1          326
Alfalfa                             2          482              3        703             2          4821
Vineyard                            I          248.             3        718             1          318
Fallow                             143,482..                  25       6,253            13         ,34
Sub-Total:                             41       10,583            74      18,980            41       :10,583
Total Scheme                          100        25,510           100      25,51 0         100        25,510 



Annex D
Page 8 of II
Table G: Cropping Patterns in Polog
1Averag 19..196           Aeag          ...-19.YI    ih  rjc
~.Radoe - etv a              Poect Area::.
%  Hectare:  j           %      Hectare:.J.
Maine bean                               42          1            ,524                       3,442,
]:Alfalfa / meadow158635                                                                      1,0
PapiaItomato                                        434                                     555~.
:PotatojI cabbage                         4j2                       125              4          26.
Orchards                                  5                         1                           7.7
::Sub~-Total.                                73           38          3,151      ~     73        6,102
Wheat   ~~~~~~~~~~ 1i271                    62:         5,159i  27~ ~2,208i
27 ~     62          515               27.       2,208
TotalScheme                                 1903        100           8,11100 .                   ,3.10
Footnoe a] his pat of he schme, wich isnot iclude  in th rject, ha berhailitated in 14986'resultingi
an imporat increase in iririgated: ara.scrent crppn ptenhas bJeen used as:an achievable tare after
ehabilitation intheproject area.
Table H: Price Used in Economic Analysis
Unit: Denar/kg
Items     Financial Price  f Economic Price~~~ CovrinFactor
~:Output
Weat]10                                         7.       ~       iI~74%~
Maze                          96.                                 71%~
Alfalfa                ~~~~~~~~~6 ~6                        1 00%
Paprika            9                 ~~~~~~~~~~9 100%/
Toato                        4.                 4.                1 00%/
Peach                           8         ~8                ~       100%
.Wine Grape                     8                                   100%]
Talrape                     112                12A00
Potato                          99                                  1 I00%/
~Apple                         i 4                 4         1~-    100%
Milk"                           15-400%~
cattle: (lI ve weight)           07010
Inputs
Construction Cost                                 ~~~95%
Fertilizer 15/15/15             110192%:
Urea                            1                  0.                2
Chemicals                                                          :100%
F arm Meqhanization      500 per tractor/hrf  7504per tractor/hr    150%~
Fannr's: labor                                300per day: ________



Annex D
Page 9 of 11
Table I: Summary Sensitivity Analysis
Base Case -                     Marketing Risk            -      Institutional Risk
Bregalnica                      21%                              13%                             13%
Tikves                          39%                              31%                             27%
Polog                           35%                             28%                              23%
Total Project (*)               29.%                            22%                              20%
Table J: Main Results of the Farm Models by Type of Farm
}~~~~~~~~Sa  Et                                          einSz               ag, Po
X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  .... i.... ..  '. '....    ....'''...
....   . . . . .......                                                                  si      F r  (..
Ae,:.:g . e .. ,   r   . o;   ..                 3     . a ...... . .  .4
E      ---Wa~e~   ....  .....
.... .. .. ............  . ...... ...
2EsE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...             la, ....     ..   .. .
.'.''' .': .''' .  ..   .... .... . .      . . ....s
DU                                     .   ..'.'....:''..''  :'   '..'"..': ''j'  ....'S.'''."'."":'        '"         '"    ''" '' '    :'" " 
.WItotroct,9767                                                                        683133
With 1~~~~~~~o~~~ect       5~~~~~97~~~~        12,289~~~..            ......4,2
Water F~~~~~~~~~~~~~e ~~~~~ %  of~~~~~~~~~~r*~~~~~~ss Va1u~~~~~~~~~~~~ o.....
Irrigated Crop~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
Witbont~~~~~~~~~~~o~~~~efa  1~~~~~~~~2%        13%                 14%                 13%~~~~~~~~~~.......
With P~~~~~~~~~~~~o~~~~ect  8%                11%                  11%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... .t
R~~~~~~~~twn per Labor Day~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..............
Total (MDe~~~~~~~~~~~i)  1,453                1,021               1,361~~~... . ....... .... ..
Percentage t~~~~~~~~~~~~fIncreas~~~~~~~~  18%  29%                 7%                  18%~~~~.......
Increased Labor Requfrement~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~......        .....
~~1nayperyear                        4                   22~~..  ....   ......
- Inperceinage           17%                 42%                  11%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....   24....



Annex D
Page 10 of II
Table K: Project Impact on a typical AK
1990(1)               Present (1)        PY10 with project (2)
:_____________ _  %       ha           %          ha          %          ha
Wine Grape                  47%                    19%                     29%
242                    100                    150
Paprika                                                                     5%
25
Tomato                                                                      5%
25
Maize                                               8%                     8%
40                     40
Alfalfa                     13%                     5%                      8%
69                     24                     40
Industrial Crops            11%
59
Orchards                                                                    5%
25
Rainfed Wheat                                      65%                     19%
336                    100
Irrigated Wheat             29%                     4%                    22%
150                     20                    115
Sub-total                  100%                   100%                    100%
I                  520                     520                    520
Without    With project Incremental
Impact on the Income of Agrokombinat:        Project (3) _ (PY10) (4)  (PY 10)
Net Income of the AK (US$)
(255,246)    87,948     343,194
Net Income per hectare (US$)
(491)       169         660
Net Income per employee (USS)
(1,501)       733       2,234
Water Fee as % of gross value of the AK             21%        13%         -8%
(1) Source: Negotinsko Pole WMO.
(2) On the basis discussions with the Director of the AK Dubrovo
(3) Assuming yields corresponding to insufficient irrigation
(4) Assuming yields corresponding to sufficient irrigation



Table L: Economic Cost/Benefit Streams (US$ Million)                                             Annex D
Page I11 of I11
2.           - 2. 29                    -1.6                  29                           -Li ..T
4                         -0                  -1.7        ,        07%r -6                                                 -24iiSg
............. , , , ,,.,.g , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . .     i R R ' ' ' ' ' " i '''i'''''i. .   , = . . . . . ,. . .    .  .   ,,,,,,,,3
3 ..2..-..          2                            -'.'..
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.          ". ' m.   ' '.,. . . ' i " " R'. '    W.. . . . .
=          .''.''',' ......................~~~~~...................  ,"'"'''       --'          ' ......  ''''.....-.      .........
1                          $21                                     531.
11      1.3                 2.2                5~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .3. .  ... .
12       5.3                 2~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....3.15.8
13  $3          21                  5.3                                                      15.8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... .....  
14  $2           2.2                  5.3                                                     15,8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ..  .
1$  82            2.2                 52                                                       15.8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........
16   $3                  22                  53~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .1..8
17         1.3                 22~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ............5....
1$         53                  22~~~~~~~~~~U      .5. ....
19  1.3        2.2                 52                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .     . .. 8 ..
4PO%                   2.....14.                                                             4



Annex E
Page I
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND
RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
Disbursement                       Profile
IBRD Fiscal Years                                 Cumulative               Cumulative
By Quarter
and Quarters          (US$Million)      (US million)  I     ()             (%)
IDA   IBRD
1998         2                                                 0                  I
3        0.16       0.16                        1.3                 I
4        0.09       0.25                        2.0                11
1999         1         0.13       0.38                        3.0               3
2        0.37       0.75                        6.0                 I
3        0.38        1.13                       9.0               6
4        0.42        1.55                      12.4                 I
2000          1        0.45       2.00                       16.0              10
2        0.50       2.50                       20.0                 I
3        0.83       3.13                       25.0              18
4        0.62       3.75                       30.0                 I
2001          1        0.63       4.38                       35.0              26
2        0.62       5.00                       40.0                 I
3        0.62                  0.62            45.0              38
4        0.63                  1.25            50.0                 I
2002          1        0.94                  2.19            57.5              50
2        0.94                  3.13            65.0
3        0.93                  4.06            72.5
4        0.94                  5.00            80.0                11
2003          1        0.50                  5.50            84.0              74
2        0.50                  6.00            88.0                 I
3        0.38                  6.38            91.0              82
4        0.37                  6.75            94.0                11
2004          1        0.25                  7.00            96.0              90
2        0.15                  7.15            97.2                 I
3        0.13                  7.38            99.0              98
4        0.12                  7.50           100.0             100
2005          1
2
3
m mac:umg\sar\sannaiUmneXe



Annex F
Page I
The former YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF OF MACEDONIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Proposed Project Supervision Plan
Approximate Date          Activity            Expected Skill Requirement       Staff
of Input     J                                                            Week
October 1997       Supervision Mission     Task Manager (Economist)          15
Project Launch          Irrigation Engineer
Workshop                Irrigation Specialist
Sociologist
Procurement Specialist
January 1998       Supervision Mission     Task Manager (Economist)          8
Irrigation Specialist
Irrigation engineer
May 1998           Supervision Mission     Task Manager (Economist)          10
Irrigation Engineer
Irrigation Specialist
Irrigation Agronomist                      l
September 1998     Supervision Mission     Task Manager (Economist)          15
Irrigation Agronomist
Irrigation Engineer
Irrigation Specialist
Sociologist
January 1999       Supervision Mission     Task Manager (Economist)          8
i                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~Irrigation Engineer
Irrigation Specialist            8
May 1999           Supervision Mission     Task Manager (Economist)          8
Irrigation Engineer
Irrigation Specialist                      l
August 1999        Supervision Mission     Task Manager (Economist)          8
Irrigation Engineer
Irrigation Specialistl
December 1999      Supervision Mission     Task Manager (Economist)          20l
(Mid-Term Review)       Irrigation Agronomist
Irrigation Engineer
Irrigation Specialist
Sociologist



Annex F
Page 2
Approximate Date               Activity                Expected Skill Requirement            Staff
of Input                                                                               Week
May 2000               Supervision Mission         Task Manager (Economist)                8
Irrigation Engineer
l __________________                                Irrigation  Specialist
November 2000          Supervision Mission         Task Manager (Economist)                8
Irrigation Engineer
l __________________   ________________________     Irrigation     Specialist
June 2000             Supervision Mission          Task Manager (Economist)                10
Irrigation Engineer
Irrigation Specialist
Agronomist
November 2001          Supervision Mission         Task Manager (Economist)                8
Irrigation Engineer
Irrigation Specialist
June 2001              Supervision Mission         Task Manager (Economist)                10
Irrigation Engineer
Irrigation Specialist
Agronomist
November 2002          Supervision Mission         Task Manager (Economist)                8
Irrigation Engineer
Irrigation Specialist
June 2002             Supervision Mission          Task Manager (Economist)                10
Irrigation Engineer
Irrigation Specialist
Agronomist
m:\mac\irrig\sar\sarfinal\appndxf



MAP SECTION






1BRD 28828'
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
FEDERAL REPUBIC  ,OF YUGOSLAVIA   /_ 
(SERBIA -/`MON4TENFGR6O),                   -         yJO'                               .               >,                     40~DmtooM                             C     D     N I
I   ,                                             N   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     GARIAIRRIGATION                                      SC      E       S
'P                                                             Sin oepgpod                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CLJLTIVATED AREAS:
C-,'                   N~~~~~~'oo                                                             Po -k&>                                           42-
u                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CURRENTLY IRRIGATED
r>stiJo2ULGARIA  \\     Ott                  I I          ~~~~~~~~~SUITABLR FOE IRRIGATION
D .  i                                                                                      E-. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dooc~   'ANOTSUTBEFRIIGIO
a.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~.
MAJOR ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
,2,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
KAW  Tt-o                                                                                            e'                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
Kuk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r'  Tetoop ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED CITIES
9  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~  (                                                                                '> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANDTOWNS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
C  -'-.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INIERNATIONAL
r                     R~~~~~~~OLINDARIES
a   oir Kopiio                                       0     10    20    30    40    SD KILOMETERS
P4oop.0    (  ("3/P  I'  /  P                                                                                      N                   0         10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kadrc  l  2D0  0 MILRS
D~~0J~~oojj( ~IT POO .p osprodu...d by he Mop Co-gp do,tolTh. World Book
D. P                   "                                                                                 OB   \.                               o lh,s -op rio-ss-ply. o- theporsofThe Wo-ld Bo-kOro-p,. oy
K             ~~~~~CZECH REP.>
N    -, >-~~~~'-s ~UKRAINE
A L B A N             BI A
SPPU                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HUNGARYN
* tdibrooho  N  NA?'"Pu                  Br~~~~~~~too         /        /Yio...itsdCOTI6                                                                              ROMANIA      K
44-
Proo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c  00                                                                                 EZGV NAPFED REP.
Eloosor  P                        P demo                                   \       AIBo6rrdrio~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /0j  ~~~~~    NNN/)?MN      BULGARIA~~SERI  ULGRI
-~~~~~              -\     /              <7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TALY    ALBReA--
Ill,~~~~~~GEC ~                             TURKEY
23                          /0N/(                                                                                                           T
OCTORER 1997






IBRD 28829
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
MACEDONIA
TIKVES IRRIGATION SCHEME
SYSTEM NETWORK AND WMO AREAS
WMO TIKVESKO POLE
WMO NEGOTINSKO POLE
WMO MAKARIJA
CANALS
WMO                         ' -   ;"                                     Xjo                                                                 ii .1 ^ 1 * ./jJ i>.ri. ii. . rsi . [.A . . n'i .X  .  CANALS (PLANNED)
,MA        , ,KARI5JA         rr~: ' I " ' -    :                                             ~                                               R VERS
55-                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BUILTULP AREAS
s; , i,    /   \,   ,-Uj   ;   r   ,2j5'2  52  >;  i t> p ' i -' 'j;';')A. E E [i & ; R s Ei [L] (j J <0---,,-i INTERNATIONAL BOUONDARIES (INSET)
V                                                                                                                                                                IMO\,.    . 
9 :: i @ g f; 4 z X ; - ! t P~~ 0                                                                                                                    1                     |; 2  3  4  5   
NEGO<NSKO   *,                     'I                                              S /   KILOMETERS
Thi, sop  ps prd-by th. Mep D-gs Usi ah Th. W-nd BonA
*    iegoino                                   T Th bond-is, colos d i-is ond -yoh  -- h
oo h soop do st iply, on iho po oht Th. Wo-d Bar Grp, -y
eoe5r  -hsuh b-udo-in
CZECH REP.~                        KAN
r -7 
AUSTRIA                               \MOLDOVA
~A HUNGARY                     '     1
r.   j52SI  0                     4          T cRi 55OATIr' -<  _    /  ROMANIA        K -
Kovodarci                                                                                 BOSNI A,N,D
-~~HEEZEGOVINA 
~~    \~~~~  FED. REPF~'
\   <                         .~~~~~~~~~~~' :                                                                            Z9                          
Ak                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SERBIA/ MAOVNAT I    BULGARIA
\   0 -                     ' ': \ ~~~~~~~~~Vataso                                                                   j.tr           /9r ,     
ITALY       ALBANIA"' =
.-   b.'   H- 7CI'0,                                                                                           _,1       ; v.CiGREECE C AE ,oor    TURKEY
*                                                                                                                                      ivs_S/1  I                 500.   >\~_
OCTOBER 1 997






IBRD 28830
CZECH REP.UKIN
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF                                                                                              -          Ny'-'  py REP j
MACEDONIAy    ' 
AUSTRIA  F )                               \MOLDOVA
BREGALNICA IRRIGATION SCHEME                                                                                                                      HUNGARY /  
SYSTEM NETWORK AND WMO AREAS                                                                                                           ' C                        ROMANIA
CANALS                                                         \        -
WMO OSOJNICA VINICA                   [           IRRIGATION WITH OPEN CANALS                                RIVERS                                                  -R EPSNIA
WMO BREGALNICA KOCANI                 'L   t-J  IRRIGATION WITH PUMPING                                      MAIN ROADS                                                 W       K    '>YUGG5LAVIA                    I Block
I\K71  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      -'---'--- RAILROADS                                                   a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   (~SERBIA/MGNT)/   BULGARIA    K    e
WMO VODOSTOPANSTVO STIPEl                         IRRIGATION WITH PIPE NETWORK                                                                                                      >        /          B >              Se
WMO OVCE POLE SV. NIKOLE                                                                           B'<T.i-   BUILT-UP AREAS                                                    0                ArEoofo          )    --
---- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)                             . ITALY      AL8 rNI-                ,
I0     a10                                                            20J'\  )                                                                                   tz i. GREECE @> Ae5,,aeaa g.,GE A  TURKEY
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                     Ke
tAppro- tc So al                                                _
QR                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ezei4Be1
;   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                                                  ' LE   Ifmsiia-  
-1-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-
TI- pcop -nco d  bycloM, D-gc Uo,c Th. Wold Bo.
cdg,o -p c.t ipOly, of oy p..fo, o oM) -k do-pc,Coo -y
OCTOBER 1997






IBRD 28831
CZECH REP                         UKRAINE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF                                                                                         J>- >  -v   sLNtREPj
MACEDONIA                                                                                                   AUSTRIA                                \MOLDOVA
POLOG IRRIGATION SCHEME                                                                                                          y  HUNGARY /
SYSTEM NETWORK AND WMO AREAS                                                                                                :0 -                         ROMANIA
COROATIA-
WMO IZVORI - GOSTIVAR                                        .                                                                                                      H          RRIGATION WITH OPEN CANALS  CS  HEREGOVA FED REP <1  >
I                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS                                         I   goOJO5LAVASoc
J L      t P RRIGATION WITH PUMPING                               M-                                                                     EBAO/MONI)/   BULGARIA    ' -
WMO POLOG  TETOVO                       - -  RRIGATION WITH MIXED OPEN CANAL AND PIPE                  MAIN ROADS                            _                                  [o             A         Y_)
B UILS-UP AREAS                                                             /1
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSETI                      ITALY       AL*TIIA
I                                                                                                                                                         GREECE                TURKEY
KIEQMETERS                                                                                                                                          URE
KAmericine                         Golemca.                      - Te-o
Negqotno b,                                                                                                                      Dzepciste
Rok    ogo-,ne
Pirokc
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gae                                                                                                                                                                           Tere  ,, E
Vra            -
Vrujtok                                      -Y                                                               
"'9U 't~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,Ync
nOW on VoWar                            C                                             /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
forOoslh.       Con                                            -                                ScTtooCw
~~WKQ &ZYQR{ M36k
/y /                                                         Aono onopn&nd LyTh Op Ie9,1001lY Lof4 on
OCTORER 1997









IMAGING
Report No.:           17013   MIK
Type:      SAR



