Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3001 MK
Development Credit Agreement
(Irrigation Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project)
between
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA (THE BORROWER)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (THE ASSOCIATION)
Dated December 3, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 3001 MK 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 3, 1997, between the Borrower and the Association. 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equal to thirteen million five hundred thousand deutsche 
mark (DEM 13,500,000) (the Loan); 
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the credit provided for in this Development Credit Agreement be 
disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of 
the proceeds of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of the Netherlands 
(Netherlands) a grant (the Dutch Grant) in an amount of $11,980,000 equivalent to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Netherlands (the Dutch Grant 
Agreement); 
Page  2
(E)
Parts B (1), (2) and (3) and E of the Project will be carried out by the 
Participating WMOs (as defined hereinafter) with the Borrower ’s assistance, and as 
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Participating WMOs on 
a grant basis part of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant as provided in this Agreement; 
and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will  not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any 
time, the Association determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Credit 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association  may, by notice to 
the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to  make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be 
canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Bregalnica Irrigation Scheme” means the irrigation scheme covering about 
25,500 hectares located near Kocani and Stip with water supplied from the Kalaminci 
dam on the Bregalnica river; 
Page  3
(b)
“Bregalnica Kocani WMO” means the WMO (as defined hereinafter) 
established for Bregalnica Kocani (as defined hereinafter) and includes any 
subdivision of PWME (as defined hereinafter) responsible for Bregalnica Kocani under 
the Water Law and any other successor or successors thereto; 
(c)
“deutsche mark” and “DEM” mean the lawful currency of Germany, but if 
such currency shall be replaced with the Euro, then “deutsche mark” and “DEM” shall be 
replaced by “Euro” for purposes of the Credit, at the ratio in effect as of the date 
of such replacement;  
(d)
“Implementation Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
MAFWE and the Participating WMOs (each as defined hereinafter) pursuant to Section 
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules to the Agreement;
(e)
“Izvori Gostivar WMO” means the WMO (as defined hereinafter) for Izvori 
Gostivar established pursuant to the 1981 Water Law (as defined hereinafter) and 
includes any subdivision of PWME (as defined hereinafter) responsible for Izvori 
Gostivar under the Water Law and any other successor or successors thereto;  
(f)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements” of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement; 
(g)
“Mavrovo Agreement” means the agreement dated June 10, 1969, between the 
former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) and Electrostovanstrovo (the 
Electric Power Company of Macedonia) guaranteeing the provision of sufficient water 
from the Mavrovo reservoir to meet irrigation requirements for the Crni Drim basin and 
in respect of which, the Borrower has succeeded SFRY; 
(h)
“MAFWE” means the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy of 
the Borrower; 
(i)
“Participating WMOs” means the Tikvesko Pole Kavadarci WMO (as defined 
hereinafter), Bregalnica Kocani WMO, Izvori Gostivar WMO and Polog Tetovo WMO (as 
defined hereinafter) and includes any successor or successors thereto; 
(j)
“PWME By-Laws” means the by-laws of PWME (as defined hereinafter) to be 
adopted pursuant to the Water Law and referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(k)
“PMT” means the Project Management Team established within MAFWE pursuant 
to Resolution No. 12-6541/3 dated  September 30, 1997 and referred to in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(l)
“Polog Irrigation Scheme” means the irrigation scheme covering about 
9,500 acres near Gostivar and Tetovo with water supplied from the Mavrovo reservoir on 
the Vardar river; 
(m)
“Polog Tetovo WMO” means the WMO (as defined hereinafter) established 
pursuant  to the 1981 Water Law for Polog Tetovo and includes any subdivision of PWME 
responsible for Polog Tetovo under the Water Law and any other successor or successor 
thereto;
(n)
“Project area” means the area covered by the Bregalnica Irrigation 
Scheme, the Tikves Irrigation Scheme (as defined hereinafter) and the Polog Irrigation 
Scheme; 
(o)
“Public Water Management Enterprise” and “PMWE” means the Public Water 
Management Enterprise to be established as a public enterprise under the Water Law 
into which all WMOs (as hereinafter defined) will be merged;
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
Page  4
(q)
“Tikves Irrigation Scheme” means the irrigation scheme covering about 
13,000 hectares located near Kavadarci with water supplied from the Tikves dam on the 
Crna river; 
(r)
“Tikvesko Pole Kavadarci WMO” means the WMO (as defined hereinafter) for 
Tikvesko Pole Kavadarci established as a public enterprise and includes any 
subdivision of PWME responsible for Tikvesko Pole Kavadarci under the Water Law and 
any other successor or successors thereto; 
(s) 
“Water Law” means the new Law on Water to be adopted by the Parliament of 
the Borrower and referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
(t)
“WMO” means a Water Management Organization established under the 1981 
Water Law; 
(u)
“WUA” means a water user’s association to be established pursuant to the 
Water Law; and
(v)
“1981 Water Law” means the Borrower’s Law on Water adopted by the 
Parliament of the Borrower in 1981.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and works required for the Project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2004, or such later date 
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Page  5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2007 and ending June 15, 2032.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2017 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall 
carry out, through MAFWE, Parts A, B (4) and (5), C, and D of the Project; and (ii) 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this 
Agreement, shall cause the Participating WMOs to carry out Parts B (1), (2) and (3), 
and E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and dam safety 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts A, B (4) and (5), C and D of the Project and cause the 
Participating WMOs to carry out Parts B (1), (2) and (3), and E of the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  6
(c) 
For the purposes of Parts B (1), (2) and (3), and E of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, under an Implementation Agreement entered into between the Borrower 
through MAFWE and the Participating WMOs, and on terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Bank, transfer part of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant to the 
Participating WMOs on a grant basis. 
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Agreement or any 
provision thereof. Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account 
(and 
the Special Account under the Development Credit 
Agreement) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association;  
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
Page  7
records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause each Participating WMO to maintain 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations and financial condition of such Participating WMO.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause each Participating WMO to: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified copies of its financial statements for 
such year as 
so audited; and (B) the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records, accounts and financial statements 
and 
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to 
time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take, and shall cause each Participating WMO to 
take, in respect of its irrigation scheme, all necessary measures to ensure that:
(i)
with respect to Tikves Irrigation Scheme, the collected 
water charges shall cover not less than 50 percent of the 
operational and maintenance costs of the irrigation 
infrastructure (hereinafter referred to as “operational 
costs” for 
the purposes of this Section) by December 31, 
1998; not less than 70 
percent of the operational costs by 
December 31, 1999; not less than 
80 percent of the 
operational costs by December 31, 2000; and 
greater than 90 
percent by December 31, 2001 and thereafter; and 
(ii)
with respect to each of Bregalnica Irrigation Scheme and 
Polog Irrigation Scheme, the collected water charges shall 
not 
cover less than 35 percent of operational costs by 
December 31, 1998; 
not less than 50 percent by December 31, 
1999; not less than 70 
percent by December 31, 2000; not 
less than 80 percent by December 
31, 2001; and greater than 
90 percent by December 31, 2002 and 
thereafter. 
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause each Participating WMO: 
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice; 
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, engineering, financial, and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and 
Page  8
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
environmental practices. 
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A Participating WMO shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Implementation Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that a Participating WMO will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Implementation Agreement.
(c)
The Water Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform 
any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(d)
The Mavrovo Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
terminated, assigned, waived or otherwise modified so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
(e)
The PWME By-Laws shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial 
condition of PWME or its ability to carry out the Project.
(f)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PWME or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(g)
The Dutch Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by June 
30, 1998, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(h)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds 
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that: 
(A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such 
agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
Page  9
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this 
Agreement;
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g) (subject to 
the proviso thereto) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (h)(i)(B) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (h)(ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VII 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
An environmental evaluation, satisfactory to the Association has been 
prepared, covering the general environmental conditions including water quality, in 
the Project area. 
(b)
The Water Law has been adopted by the Parliament of the Borrower. 
(c)
An Implementation Agreement satisfactory to the Association has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Participating WMOs; and 
(d)
The Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness have been fulfilled other than those related to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement. 
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev 14
91000 Skopje
Telex:
51119
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  10
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE BORROWER
By /s/ L. Acevska
Authorized Representative
THE ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Chhibber
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Credit and the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and 
the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Loan Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
DEM Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
    3,070,000
  11,790,000
75%
(2)
Goods
      150,000
     360,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local 
expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Vehicles
     110,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local 
expenditures
for other items
procured locally
Page  11
(4)
Unallocated
     370,000
  1,350,000
  ----------
-----------
TOTAL
   3,700,000
       13,500,000
   =========
       ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not to exceed SDR 750,000 may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after July 1, 1997. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan 
Account (as defined in the Loan Agreement) to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure for expenditures for (a) works under contracts not exceeding $1,000,000 
equivalent; and (b) goods under contracts not exceeding $200,000, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to enable private farmers to regain the 
potential of the irrigated agriculture sector through the rehabilitation of three 
deteriorated irrigation schemes and to enhance the sustainability and efficiency of 
irrigation schemes through the introduction of participatory irrigation management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
System Rehabilitation 
(1)
Tikves Irrigation Scheme
Carrying out of repairs and replacement of damaged portions of the Tikves 
Irrigation Scheme including: (a) repairs to the system intake tunnel; (b) 
rehabilitation of canals; (c) repairs to irrigation system structures; and (d) 
replacement of damaged pipes, hydrants and valves of the buried pipe distribution 
system. 
(2)
Bregalnica Irrigation Scheme 
Carrying out of repairs and replacement of damaged portions of the Bregalnica 
Irrigation Scheme including: (a) repairs to the Kalimanci dam; (b) rehabilitation of 
canals; and (c) rehabilitation of the distribution network. 
(3)
Polog Irrigation Scheme 
Carrying out of repairs and replacement of damaged portions of the Polog 
Irrigation Scheme including: (a) rehabilitation of canals; (b) improvement of pipe 
network; and (c) rehabilitation of the distribution network.
Part B:
Institutional Development 
(1)
Provision of technical assistance and training to the Participating WMOs and to 
such WUAs as agreed between the Borrower and Association, in carrying out a pilot 
water users’ association program; 
Page  12
(2)
Provision of technical assistance and training for members of WUAs in improved 
water management; 
(3)
Provision of construction materials and training to the Bregalnica Kocani WMO 
and to such WUAs (to be established within the Bregalnica Irrigation Scheme) as agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association, for rehabilitation of a pilot area of about 
1,000 hectares on a self-help basis; 
(4)
Provision of technical assistance and training to Bregalnica Kocani WMO, a 
national research company, WMOs in the Polog area and to WUAs, as agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association, for the preparation of a detailed study on water 
management in the Project Area; and  
(5)
Provision of technical assistance to MAFWE for the ongoing reorganization of all 
WMOs in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Technical Studies
Provision of technical assistance and minor field equipment for the carrying out 
of studies on problems in the irrigation schemes in the Project area including dam 
safety, algae and repair of the irrigation systems.
Part D:
Project Administration and Monitoring
(a)
Provision of technical assistance, equipment and vehicles for the PMT to 
assist in Project implementation; and
(b)
Provision of design and construction supervision under the Project.
Part E:
Implementation Support
Provision of implementation support in carrying out the Project to the 
Participating WMOs.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provision shall apply to works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. Grouping of 
contracts To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures. 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $12,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  13
2.
International and National Shopping
(a)
Vehicles, irrigation equipment and cement estimated to cost less than 
$250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Irrigation and construction equipment, gravel and sand, estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$120,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $60,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest priced quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B of this Schedule; and (ii) the first two contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of each of Parts C.2 (a) and C.3 of this Schedule, the following procedures 
shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures and the procedures for the procurement 
of 
small works, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a 
copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) 
and 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall at all times maintain the PMT with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association and shall ensure that the PMT is adequately staffed by 
a Project director and key personnel with qualifications, terms of reference and 
experience satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that: 
(a) 
within six months of the Effective Date, a unit responsible for WUAs is 
established and thereafter maintained in each Participating WMO or subdivision of PWME 
to assist in implementation of Parts B and D of the Project;
(b)
within one year of the Effective Date, at least two WUAs are established 
and thereafter maintained in the Bregalnica Irrigation Scheme and an additional two 
WUAs are established, and thereafter maintained in the Tikves Irrigation Scheme; and
(c)
within two years of the Effective Date, at least three additional WUAs 
are established, and thereafter maintained in the Polog Irrigation Scheme.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
make all necessary arrangements to ensure that the quality of water in 
the Project area is monitored on a periodic basis and at locations, as agreed with the 
Association;
(b)
ensure that adequate water is allocated annually for meeting irrigation 
demands in the Project area; and
(c)
ensure compliance with the provisions of the Mavrovo Agreement. 
4.
The Borrower shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, cause 
the dams and related infrastructure works rehabilitated under the Project to be 
maintained and periodically inspected in accordance with sound engineering practices 
acceptable to the Association.
5.
The Borrower shall, prior to the adoption, pursuant to the Water Law, of: (a) 
any regulations on irrigation and WUAs; and (b) the PWME By-Laws, submit a draft of 
such regulations and PWME By-Laws for the prior approval of the Association.
6.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about July 1, 1999, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by October 1, 1999, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
Page  15
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account and the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the respective General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of SDR 750,000 equivalent. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account or the Loan 
Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and 
other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement or from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
Page  16
provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions applicable thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 
of the respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the 
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated 
to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the 
case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement or the Loan Agreement, including the General 
Conditions applicable thereto.
