Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4241 MK
Loan Agreement
(Irrigation Rehabilitation and Restructuring Project)
between
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
(THE BORROWER)
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (THE BANK)
Dated December 3, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4241 MK 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 3, 1997, between the Borrower and the Bank. 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement 
between the Borrower and the International Development Association (the Association) 
of even date herewith (the Development Credit Agreement), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the Association to provide additional 
financial assistance towards the financing of the Project and by the Development 
Credit Agreement the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 3,700,000) (the Credit); 
(C)
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the credit provided for in the Development Credit Agreement be disbursed 
on account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the 
proceeds of the Loan provided for in this Agreement are made; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of the Netherlands 
(Netherlands) a grant (the Dutch Grant) in an amount of $11,980,000 equivalent to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
Page  2
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Netherlands (the Dutch Grant 
Agreement); and 
(E)
Parts B (1), (2) and (3) and E of the Project will be carried out by the 
Participating WMOs (as defined in the Development Credit Agreement) with the Borrower 
’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the 
Participating WMOs on a grant basis part of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant as 
provided in the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that 
the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or 
(f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by 
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.”  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, in the Development Credit Agreement and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term 
"Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Association for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such 
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development Credit 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirteen 
million five hundred thousand deutsche mark (DEM 13,500,000). 
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and works required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
the Development Credit Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
deutsche mark a special deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after 
the 
initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
deutsche mark for value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, 
in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest 
Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of 
such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable June 15 and 
December 15 in each year. 
Page  4
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, Sections 2.02 (b), 
3.01, 3.02, 3.03, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03 and 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and 
Schedules 1, 2, 3 and 4 thereto are incorporated in the Loan Agreement, with the 
following modifications in said Sections and Schedules unless the context otherwise 
requires: 
(i)
the term “Association” shall be read as “Bank”; 
(ii)
the term “Credit” and “Credit Account” shall be read as “
Loan” and “Loan Account”; and 
(iii)
the term “this Agreement” shall be read as “the Loan 
Agreement”.
(b)
So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been notified 
otherwise by the Bank:
(i)
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the 
Association pursuant to any of the Sections of, and 
Schedules to, the Development Credit Agreement enumerated 
in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, as well as pursuant to 
Section 2.02 (a) of the 
Development Credit Agreement, shall 
be deemed to be taken or given in 
the name and on behalf of 
both the Association and the Bank; and
(ii)
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower 
to the Association pursuant to the provisions of any of 
such 
Sections of the Development Credit Agreement or 
Schedules 
thereto shall be deemed to be furnished to both 
the Association and 
the Bank. 
ARTICLE IV 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, the events set out in Section 6.01 
of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, the events set out in Section 6.02 
of the Development Credit Agreement, provided, however, that the term “Association” 
wherever it appears in such Section shall be read as “Bank”. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the 
General Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the 
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates prior to the 
termination of this Agreement, the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement 
referred to in this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect between the 
Page  5
Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Dame Gruev 14
91000 Skopje
Telex:
51119
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE BORROWER
By /s/ L. Acevska
Authorized Representative
THE BANK
By /s/ A. Chhibber
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
     (Expressed in
  Date Payment Due
     deutsche mark)
Page  6
June 15, 2003
345,000 
December 15, 2003
355,000 
June 15, 2004
360,000 
December 15, 2004
365,000 
June 15, 2005
370,000 
December 15, 2005
380,000 
June 15, 2006
385,000 
December 15, 2006
390,000 
June 15, 2007
400,000 
December 15, 2007
405,000 
June 15, 2008
410,000 
December 15, 2008
420,000 
June 15, 2009
425,000 
December 15, 2009
435,000 
June 15, 2010
440,000 
December 15, 2010
450,000 
June 15, 2011
455,000 
December 15, 2011
465,000 
June 15, 2012
475,000 
December 15, 2012
480,000 
June 15, 2013
490,000 
December 15, 2013
500,000 
June 15, 2014
505,000 
December 15, 2014
515,000 
June 15, 2015
525,000 
December 15, 2015
535,000 
June 15, 2016
540,000 
December 15, 2016
550,000 
June 15, 2017
560,000 
December 15, 2017
570,000
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in deutsche mark to be 
repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
DEM 1,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
Page  7
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Page  8
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
