Report No. PID5911
Project Name                     Georgia-Roads Project (@+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Highways
Project ID                       GEPE40556
Borrower(s)                      Government of Georgia
Implementing Agency              State Department of Roads of Georgia
(SDRG), supported by
Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center
(TRRC)
Tel:     (995 32) 990 461
Fax:     (995 32) 990 461
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           March 20, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February 28, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 22, 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.      Georgia is a country of 5.4 million people bounded by the Black Sea,
Russia, Azerbaijan, Armenia and Turkey. At independence in April 1991, it
appeared to be among the best placed of the former Soviet States to make a
successful transition. It had highly educated staff force, a long tradition
of entrepreneurship, a significant underground economy, a prosperous
agricultural sector and substantial natural resources. Its location made it a
primary transit corridor in the Caucasus. However two years of civil conflict
and an eroded government authority resulted in a collapsed economy with high
short term debt, low output, and hyperinflation. In early 1994, Georgia made
a significant turnaround and embarked in a stabilization program supported by
the Bank and the IMF that reduced inflation to less than 12 percent per year
and stimulated again the economy.
2.      Georgia's opportunities for growth largely depends on the country's
capacity to integrate into international markets and attract foreign
investment. In this regard the recovery of trade following the sharp decline
of imports and exports in 1995, is encouraging. Exports have grown
contributing to a significant decline of the current account deficit. Trade
data although deficient, show significant penetration into new markets : about
50 percent of exports are toward non-FSU countries and among those, Turkey has
become the most important trade partner.
3.      The severe deterioration of Georgia's basic infrastructure, especially
roads, represents a barrier to private investment and growth. In Georgia,
this is the result of a combination of factors: the lack of investment and
maintenance for the past several years; institutions dominated and regulated
by large monopolies, state-owned enterprises; and, a precarious financial
situation due to inadequate pricing policies and low cost-recovery. The



Government is aware that, due to the limited public resources, alleviation of
these infrastructure bottlenecks will require an improved road financing
regimen and a greater private sector participation. Several steps have already
been taken in this direction with the introduction of user charges and the
Road Fund, improvement in collection of payments, and initial restructuring
and privatization of the sector organizations. However, enforcement of
payment discipline is not yet fully achieved, many of the user charges need to
be redefined, and institutional framework improved to make efficiency gains
and achieve a greater private participation.
Objectives
4.      The project has four objectives: (i) reduce road transport costs and
improve access in Georgia's major traffic corridors; (ii) provide a steady and
accounted for funding for road maintenance (including routine and periodic
maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction) based on charges related to
road use and road access; (iii) improve road management and its effectiveness
in State Department of Roads of Georgia (SDRG); and (iv) provide a platform
for private sector development and sustenance in consulting and construction.
Project description and rationale
5.      The total project cost is US$55.0 million and it is supported by US$40.0
IDA Credit. The project consists of (a) implementation of high priority road
maintenance and rehabilitation investments; and (b) a broad technical
assistance program whose aim is to clarify the mission of the SDRG and improve
its capacity to carry out this mission. Both the project's civil works and the
technical assistance are scheduled to be undertaken with maximum local
participation for technology and knowledge transfer. Issues for which support
is indicated include management systems and data resources for budget and day-
to-day decisionmaking; technical standards and specifications; traffic safety;
contracting, procurement and financial management. To round out the
technology transfer process, many project implementation activities will be
transferred from Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center (TRRC) to SDRG,
with TRRC providing support to SDRG to assure satisfactory project
implementation.
6.      Road Component. (App. US$50.0.0 million) This component consists of the
maintenance, rehabilitation, and reconstruction of Georgia's main roads.
Recognition of the constraints of the road network on economic development,
the Government of Georgia has decided to improve the capacity and quality of
its main highways. It has identified the major roads for the transit traffic
and the development strategy as the roads from the Azeri border to the Black
Sea, the road from Tbilisi to Armenia, and from Tbilisi to Russia. These
important roads are in poor condition due to a combination of deferred
maintenance and increased traffic. Further deferral of rehabilitation and
maintenance on any of these roads would only increase the costs both to the
users and the Government. Rehabilitation of the East-West highway, the
Armenia-Georgia road and the road to Russia are, therefore, accorded high
priority by the Government.
7.      The project will make an important contribution to regional transport.
The Azebaijan-Black Sea road, identified by TRACECA as the "Silk Road", is
expected to be important for traffic in the years ahead. The road From
Tbilisi to Armenia is part of route to Yerevan, and the shortest route between
- 2 -



the two capitals. It is badly deteriorated and the traffic volume has dropped
from 3,000 vpd in 1994 to about 1,000 vpd at present, with vehicles now moving
over the longer alternative route from Marnueli to Guguti. Reconstruction of
this road will therefore reduce the cost of road transport between the two
capitals.
8.      It is a strategic choice to focus first on the main roads. This is for
several reasons. First the main roads are in the worst condition and carry
the most traffic--there also is much income generating international transit
traffic--and direct benefits to traffic are high. Second, the project roads
traverse through or near the most populous areas and also serve the tourist
and ski, and historical areas in the Caucasus and Borjomi. Third, the project
will have an immediate positive effect on both urban and rural employment and
consumption as workers are engaged to carry out the work and from better
access. And fourth, the project will increase the competitiveness of Georgian
industries and the transit traffic. All combined will increase consumption of
locally produced goods and services, including food stuffs, and serve a large
segment of Georgia's population.
9.      Technical cooperation and assistance.    (App. US$5.0 million) The second
priority of the Government is to obtain the maximum benefit from its road
program. This is achieved by a broad institutional and professional
development program. It supports improved quality and efficiency of road
management operations through better selection of the roads to be repaired and
the type and technology of repair employed; the use of modern management
systems; better technical standards, material specifications and conduct of
work; and increased efficiencies from competitive contracting, improved
quality control and better technology. The TA program also includes renewing
the road management framework by revising the functional classification of
roads; capacity building for planning and monitoring performance road programs
and the SDRG, and underpin them with adequate data resources and management
systems; modernization of technical standards and specifications; training in
the supervision of civil works; and strengthening in contracting, procurement,
and financial management.
10.     The third priority is traffic safety.   In spite of improvements in
recent years, traffic safety remains a problem in the road sector. This is
due to speed, lack of road markings, inadequate road design and lack of
coordination between the responsible organizations. Improvements to traffic
safety will be sought by studying the prevailing road safety situation and
trends based on available data; proposing legal bases and traffic engineering
means to monitor, coordinate and improve road and traffic safety; and,
establishing Road Safety Policy and a Road Safety Program for Georgia.
11.     The institutional development component of the project will be
undertaken with the aim of maximum knowledge and technology transfer. This
will be achieved with the assistance of a qualified international consulting
firm with broad experience in all the areas identified for support working
with SDRG and TRRC (PIU of the previous World Bank Transport Rehabilitation
project) professionals during the project implementation period, utilising a
combination of long and short term consultant personnel professionals. The
project will also provide a platform for sustained private sector development.
For this purpose all project related civil works are implemented by private
contractors and three year rolling road programs covering all proposed
investments in the national road network planned by SDRG are made public in
- 3-



order to provide information for private sector business planning.
Financing
12.     An IDA Credit of US$40.0 million combined with US$15.0 million of local
contribution would finance the investments and technical services.
Implementation
13.     The IDA credit will be channeled through the Ministry of Finance.    The
project will be implemented by SDRG, with procurement and financial management
assistance from TRRC. SDRG will be responsible for all technical aspects of
the project, including but not limited to planning, procurement, and
implementation of civil works, institutional strengthening and training.
Supervision of works will be carried out by independent consultants. SDRG
will also have responsibility for preparing short lists of consultants, in
accordance with IDA guidelines, pre-selected to participate in the bidding for
supervision works. TRRC will be responsible for administration of the Special
Account and project accounting, including consolidating accounting and
reporting for all project components. It will also be responsible for
assisting SDRG in all matters, specially the commercial aspects of contracting
civil works and procurement
14.     Consultant services would be procured in accordance with the World Bank
"Guidelines" (January 1997, revised January 1999) on the "Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers".
Sustainability
55.     Project sustainability is linked to the success of the project's
supervision, and to the success of the technical services and technology
transfer of the institutional and professional capacity. The Project
components have been designed to gradually achieve road sector sustainability
and improve cost-recovery, financing, and cost efficiency of operations and
selection of investments.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
66.     The Bank's first loan to Georgia was the Institution Building Credit of
US$10.1 million in 1994. This was followed in 1995 by a Municipal
Infrastructure Credit of US$18.0 million and a Rehabilitation Credit of
US$75.0 million. In Fiscal Year 1996, a Transport Project of US$12.0 million,
a SATAC of US$4.8 million and a SAC of US$60.0 million were approved. In
Fiscal Year 1997, a Health Credit of US$14.0 million and an Agriculture Credit
of US$15.0 million were approved. During this first phase of assistance, the
impact of the Bank on the course and types of reforms has been substantial and
has helped establishing a fruitful policy dialogue and building a good
partnership with the Government. Nevertheless, the serious deterioration of
the road infrastructure, the stringent financial constraints of the
Government, and the need to undertake substantial maintenance and
rehabilitation investments and institutional capacity building to upgrade the
road network and sector institutions indicate a substantial agenda for the
coming years.
77.     The Bank has had considerable experience in financing road projects in
- 4 -



other parts of the world, including Eastern Europe. Concerned at the large
backlog of road maintenance, the Bank has adopted the following general
recommendations : (a) improvement in road planning and programming, using
reliable information and management methods and the application of economic
criteria, (b) strengthening of institutional performance and contracting out
service delivery to the private sector, (c) reallocation of resources to
balance construction and maintenance using economic criteria, and (d)
improving the financing of roads, particularly by the adoption of road user
charge systems. The proposed Credit is consistent with these principles.
Poverty Category
88.     Not Applicable.
Environmental Aspects
99.     The project would be classified as Category B.    The impact of the
project on environment is limited to the emission of fumes and waste from the
asphalt plant, potential soil erosion, and disposal of solid waste. A limited
environmental analysis consistent with the project's category B status was
performed during project preparation, and adequate mitigation measures are
proposed. Environmental Assessment that includes Environmental Mitigation
Plan (EMP) is appended to this Project Information Document.
Program Objective Categories
20.     The project contributes to development of a sustainable policy and
physical environment in Georgia. It builds the professional capacity of the
road sector organizations, improves key road infrastructure, reduces fiscal
pressure in a tight Government budget, and promotes efficient resource use and
private sector development.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Antti Talvitie, ECSIN
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-7017
Fax:        (202) 614-0900
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 31, 2000.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



