E-314
GEORGIA ROAD TRANSPORT PROJECT
Environmental Assessment
INTRODUCTION
1.    This analysis is based on an environmental review conducted in January 1999 as part of
the Georgia Road Transport Project (RTP) preparation. ' The review included consultations with
the State Department of Roads (SDR), the Road Design Institute (RDI, SAKGZAPROJECT), the
Road Research Institute (RRI, SAKGZAMETSNIEREBA), and the Ministry of Environment
(MOE) as well as with selected NGOs interested in environmental issues.
2.    The proposed project rating is Environmental Category B. The environment review has
followed the specifications and guidelines for "Category B" projects provided in the following
World Bank documents: Operational Directive 4.01: Environmental Assessment; Environmental
Assessment Sourcebook; and Roads and the Environment: A Handbook.
BASELINE SITUATION AND PROPOSED INVESTMENT
3.    The Georgian road network consists of over 21,000 kilometers (kms) of roads, of which
about 9,700 are paved. The principal road transport spine is the "Magistral," a highway of about
700 kms that runs from the Azeri border, through Tbilisi, to the Black Sea and the Russian
border. The alignment, longitudinal gradients, and slope stability of this principal highway are
generally acceptable. Maintenance funds for this route have been inadequate for over a decade,
resulting in distressed and potholed surface conditions.
4.    The RTP builds on the achievements of the earlier Transportation Rehabilitation Project
(TRP), which included a priority program of emergency repairs to stabilize about 1,000 kms of
the main network and important secondary feeder roads. To achieve its objectives of lowering
transport unit costs, lowering fiscal costs and inducing efficient resource use in the sector, the
RTIP comprises urgent periodic road repair and rehabilitation of about 1,250 kms of road and the
reconstruction of 3 kms of road, 1 intersection, and 3 bridges.
5.    In accordance with the Environmental Permits Law of Georgia passed in 1997,
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) for the seven rehabilitation and five reconstruction
subprojects are required. Discussions were held with the MOE and the SDR concerning this new
requirement and a sample matrix to be used for the EIA. The SDR and the MOE will jointly
review this matrix and adjust it to best fit the requirements of the new legislation.
DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
6.    Most rehabilitation and maintenance projects in the road sector have positive
environmental impacts, particularly with the retention of existing alignments, as is the case in
this project. Such projects offer more efficient vehicle operation and a corresponding reduction
I     Preliminary consultations took place in conjunction with a mission to Georgia in October 1998,
and consultations with environmental specialists of the World Bank took place during December and
early January of 1999.



2
in the emission of pollutants, reduced noise and vibrations from traffic and the opportunity to
introduce mitigation actions relative to existing threats.
7.    Direct negative impacts from road maintenance and rehabilitation activities arise from: (i)
production and application of bituminous products; (ii) quarrying of stone and gravel; (iii) such
short-tern impacts as noise, dust and the disruption of traffic resulting from works execution;
(iv) removal of waste materials; and (v) drainage and erosion. Each of these areas of concern
were examined in the course of the review. Indirect environmental impacts are discussed in
section IV.
8.    Production and Application of Bituminous Products. Although most asphalt plants lie
outside highly populated areas, their emissions represent a potential source of pollution to both
the air and surrounding land areas. All asphalt plants are required to obtain environmental
certification in order to operate. Emissions testing, required for certification, is conducted at the
RRI's environmental laboratory, established with assistance from the TRP.
9.    The SDR has informally notified 12 plants which it expects to provide asphalt for the
project that they must comply with environmental regulations and obtain the appropriate
certification. This will be complicated by highly deteriorated condition of most plants and their
inability to afford spare parts or improve their processing techniques until they have received
advance payments for future work. Project preparation work suggests that contracts for asphalt
be consolidated in large enough packages to help the plants finance their needs to be in
compliance with environmental regulations and to operate profitably. As an interim measure the
RRI, on behalf of the SDR and in consultation with the MOE, will prepare guidelines for needed
actions to both increase plant productivity and reduce pollution from emissions. These
guidelines will be distributed to all asphalt plants interested in receiving contracts under the
project. Only certified plants will be allowed to compete for provision of asphalt to SDR and
contractors of road works.
10.   Quarrying and Crushing of Gravel. The licensing and monitoring system for quarries
was revised by the MOE in 1996, under the Natural Resources Protection Law. The current
system requires that all quarry and crushing sites obtain environmental certification. The
renewal of certificates is periodically determined on a sliding sale based on the total size of the
deposit and productive operations at each site.
11.   Short-term Impact. Short-term impact from noise, dust, vibration, and traffic congestion
during the execution of road work is inevitable. This impact will be minimized under the project
by: (i) requiring all contractors to attend an orientation and training course in construction
management and road maintenance as a pre-requisite to bidding eligibility on project works; and
(ii) specifying in all project contract documents the responsibility of contractors to undertake
appropriate work site mitigation actions as part of the management of work sites. Mitigation
actions will be specified in the bidding documents.
12.   Environmental guidelines to contractors will be based on an updating of specifications
and standard procedures carried over from the Soviet Period with incorporation of recent
environmental legislation. These will be reviewed by the Road Research Institute and the MOE.
The RRI, serving as the consulting engineer for all project works, will be responsible for



3
monitoring guideline compliance. Contractors will be required to prepare a site-specific
mitigation plan for any site where the scale of impact is judged to be significant; particular
attention would be given to the residential road segments. Subprojects will only be accepted by
the implementing agency, the SDR, if contractor compliance is certified.
13.   Waste Products. The preparation of specific waste management legislation is pending. A
monitoring system proposal has been prepared and submitted for support by the UNDP.
Technical specifications currently in use in Georgia require the collection and containment of all
waste materials with bituminous content in areas specified for each region. The local offices of
the MOE are responsible for licensing such areas and assuring compliance. All contractors
would be required to conform with environmental regulations and practices relating to proper
disposal. The identification of the disposal site to be used and approximate quantities is to be
included as part of the documentation for each subproject. However, no waste products are
expected in this project as existing material will be re-used to form the sub-base layer in the case
of rehabilitation works.
14.   Drainage. In general the highway network was well designed in Georgia, reducing the
impact of drainage. The main concerns are related to the placement and design of drains,
particularly in conjunction with bridges and culverts. The TRP addressed drainage impacts
leading to surface deterioration through the emergency repair program. Remaining drainage
issues will be addressed under the RTP through corrective actions before repairs are made. In
2
the case of reconstruction, drainage improvements will be considered in subproject design.
INDIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
15.   Increased traffic and traffic speed. Indirect environmental impacts possibly arising from
road rehabilitation projects include such long-terms developments as increases in the growth of
traffic and increases in the speed oftraffic. Although road maintenance and rehabilitation are
pre-requisites for such developments, a far higher correlation exists between such developments
and national economic recovery. This is particularly the case in Georgia today.
16.    Road safety. Most drivers, especially truckers, maintain that a major cause of road
accidents is attempting to avoid potholes and deteriorated surface conditions. The repairs to road
surfaces envisioned under the project would increase road safety and more than balance any
likely increase in the level of traffic or speed of vehicles.  A comprehensive program for road
traffic safety can be initiated once road user charges collected by the Road Fund exceed the
needs for maintenance and rehabilitation.
2     The design for one of the bridges proposed for reconstruction included corrective action to
counter erosion resulting from the original design that subsequently resulted in damage to the bridge
itself Erosion exists in some areas as a result of improperly designed drains and especially where
construction work was initiated but stopped. The SDR feels erosion is not an issue for the current list of
subprojects but would include such projects as a priority under subsequent road projects.
Statistics available for the MOT indicate that there has been a decline in traffic accidents on the
main route receiving maintenance under the TRP whereas there has been an increase on secondary roads
not provided for under the TRP.



4
17.   Vehicle emissions. In the case of Georgia, with the economic downturn and a decline in
production levels in the country, road vehicle emissions remain the major source of air pollution.
The roadwork envisioned for the project will not only reduce vehicle operating costs but also
reduce the emissions from vehicles. 4
INSTITUTIONAL AND REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS
18.   Throughout the 1990s the transition from the former Soviet System to market economics
has severely stressed the Government's operational capacity. The restructuring and reform of the
organizations overseeing the transport sector is still underway and sector management
legislation, regulations, guidelines, and procedures are being formalized and gradually
implemented. Major progress has been made in the development of provisions for
environmental protection, but continued economic hardships divert attention from their
enforcement. Definitional clarifications in environmental legislation are underway.
19.   The Ministry of Environment has undergone internal changes, moving from first being a
national commission to becoming a full ministry. A National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP) has been drafted, with assistance from the World Bank and other donors, and is now
awaiting submission to Parliament for ratification. Nine major environmental laws have been
passed, and two others are pending. The qualifications of MOE central staff have been
upgraded, and divisional responsibilities clarified. As part of its reform, the MOE has
established regional offices and devolved certain regulatory functions to these centers. Concepts
of follow-up and enforcement are still evolving. Such factors have been taken into consideration
in the design of the mitigation plan.
21.   Technical assistance under the proposed RTP will support strengthening of SDR capacity
in the area of works planning and supervision, including environment management and
implementation of the project environmental mitigation action plan.
4     The RDI has conducted analysis for the rehabilitation component indicating the positive returns
on reduced vehicle operating costs and vehicle emissions.



5
MITIGATION PLAN
23.   The following mitigation plan has been prepared to minimize any potential negative
environmental impacts from the project. The essential elements in the plan, summarized in
Table 1, address impacts from periodic maintenance, rehabilitation, and reconstruction works on
roads and include needed institutional strengthening activities.
24.   A working group for liaison and auditing will be responsible for monitoring the
mitigation plan and ensuring that certification processes are valid. The validity will be verified
by the conduct of site audits. The first set of audits will be conducted within six months of the
initiation of road maintenance activities; subsequent sets will be conducted one and two years
later. The working group will consist of representatives of the MOE, the TRRC, the SDR, and
one NGO working with environmental issues. The Deputy Minister of the MOE will appoint a
representative to serve as chair. The TRRC will serve as the secretary of the group. The group
will meet as necessary but at least once between each Bank supervision mission and after each
annual audit.



6
Table 1: Environmental Mitigation Plan
ISSUES                            MITIGATIVE ACTIONS                               Institutional
Responsibility
1. Policy Commitment The SDR will prepare and disseminate to its staff and to all potential and    SDR, TRRC
actual contractors or suppliers providing services to the SDR a 1-2 page
policy statement to underline the importance the SDR accords
environmental protection require all staff to follow environmental
regulations, and inform contractors and suppliers that they must work in
accordance with environmental laws and regulations.
The SDR will not award contracts to suppliers and contractors that are not
fully certified. Certification will cover sources of gravel and other  SDR, MOE
materials such as asphalt
2. Training          An orientation seminar on environmental protection and site management  SDR, TRRC
will be organized for SDR; the MOE, and the local engineering industry.
3. Environmental     Both the Technical Department of the SDR, and the MOE will upgrade  SDR, MOE
Expertise           their expertise in environmental protection. During the life of the project
this may be achieved through contracting with an environmental
specialist, but should become a permanent in-house capacity in the future.
4. Liaison and       A liaison and auditing working group will be established to monitor the    SDR, TRRC, MOE
Auditing             mitigation plan and ensure the validity of certification processes.
Site visits conducted by a contracted local consulting firm, serving as an
independent auditor and reporting to the working group, will confirm that  SDR, TRRC, Consulting
sites are being properly managed, environmental sign-offs have been  Firm
obtained, and all work is in compliance with national environmental
standards. Three different sites will be audited each year, providing nine
different site audits over a three year period. The working group and the
auditors will make themselves available for consultation with the
supervision missions of the World Bank [without additional charge].
5. Production and    All asphalt plants providing bituminous materials to the projects will be    SDR, Contractors, MOE
Application of      required to conform with environmental regulations. Certification of
Bituminous Products   compliance with environmental standards will be required from
contractors/plants that participate in the project. The MOE and the SDR
will prepare a short guideline on emission reduction for distribution to all
potential suppliers of asphalt under the project.
6. Quanying and      Contractors will be required to use materials taken only from licensed  SDR
Crushing of Stone and  sites. Copies of these licenses will be provided in the documents
Gravel               provided by the consulting engineer, and in the EIAs provided to the
MOE. Initial violations by contractors would result in the stoppage of
work; recurrent violations would result in the cancellation of contracts.



7
ISSUES                              MITIGATIVE ACTIONS                                 Institutional
Responsibility
7. Short Term Impact:  Attendance at an orientation seminar will be required of all contractors as   SDR
Noise, Dust, Vibration,  a pre-requisite for bidding on work under the project. This will include
Traffic Safety        site management and mitigation planning for such short-tern impacts as
noise, dust, vibration, and traffic congestion during diversions for the
execution of work. Contracts providing for periodic, rehabilitation, or
reconstruction services under the project will require contractors to
address these issues in the management of their work. Initial violations by
contractors would result in the stoppage of work; recurrent violations
would result in the cancellation of contracts.
8. Waste Materials    The orientation seminar would include proper methodology for the
disposal of materials to avoid contamination of soils and the water table.
The regional office of the MOE would be responsible for certifying that
all waste materials are placed in areas designated for that use by the MOE.
Certification by the MOE would be included in the acceptance
documentation.
9. Drainage and       Drainage was a major concem addressed in the TRP. To the extent that
Erosion               surface deterioration has resulted from improper drainage, improvements
would be made before repairs are made. Drainage issues will be
considered in the design of all reconstruction subprojects.



8
Table 2: Environmental Monitoring Plan
Phase             Parameter            Parameter       Parameter         Parameter       Institutional
Responsibility
What               Where             How              When         Installation
operation
Implement  . Number of contractors    SDR and        . Participation in   . After each   SDR      SDR
ation/Cons  attended SDR seminars.   TR&RC          seminars         seminar (2/year)    and      and
truction                                                                                TR&RC  TR&RC
. Number of
environmental audits.
SDR and        . Audit reports    . One audit/year
Number of asphalt plants  TR&RC                                            SDR      SDR
certified by the MOE.                   . SDR Annual      once a year       and      and
SDR            report                              TR&RC  TR&RC
Number of licensed
stone crushing plants.                                                      SDR      SDR
once a year
Actions taken to mitigate  SDR         .SDR Annual
short tenn impacts of                   report
works.                                                                      SDR       SDR
Supervision     twice a year
SDR            report and audit
reports
SDR      SDR
Operation   . Number of asphalt plants  SDR          .SDR Annual       once year
certified by the MOE.                   report
SDR      SDR
Number of licensed                     . SDR Annual
stone crushing plants.  SDR             report           . once year
. Actions taken to mitigate
maintenance short term
impacts of maintenance    SDR           . Supervision     twice a year      SDR       SDR
works.                                  report of SDR
World Bank User
\\ECACL02\ECA-PROJECT\GEORGIA\INFRA\RoadProj\2LENA\Envirass.doc
02/11/00 11:54 AM



