Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20231 GE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SRD 29.8 MILLION
(US$40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA
FOR A
ROADS PROJECT
May 1, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = Lari
1.85 Laris = US$
US$ 1 = 0.54 Laris
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           =      Country Assistance Strategy
ECA           =      Europe and Central Asia
ERR           =      Economic Rate of Return
GPN           =      General Procurement Notice
LACI          =      Loan Administration Initiative
LIL           =      Learning and Innovation Loan
MOE           =      Ministry of Environment
MOT           =      Ministry of Transport
PIU           =      Project Implementing Unit
PMR           =      Project Management Report
PMS           =      Pavement Management System
SDR           =      Special Drawing Rights
SDRG          =      State Department of Roads of Georgia
TRACECA    =         Transport Corridor Europe Caucasus Asia
(European Union)
TRP           =      Transport Rehabilitation Project
TRRC          =      Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Centre
Vice President:   Johannes Linn (ECAVP)
Country Director:   Judy O'Connor (ECC03)
Sector Director:    Ricardo Halperin (ECSIN)
Sector Manager:    Eva Molnar (ECSIN)
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Antti Talvitie (ECSIN)



GEORGIA
ROADS PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      I1
3. Benefits and target population                                                     11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           15
4. Indications of borrower commitmnent and ownership                                  15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        16
E. Summnary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           16
2. Financial                                                                          17
3. Technical                                                                          17
4. Institutional                                                                      18
5. Environment                                                                        19
6. Social                                                                             21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     22
2. Critical risks                                                                     23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     23



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           24
2. Other                                                                             24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         27
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        33
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  34
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              37
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      38
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    53
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  54
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 55
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           57
Annex 1 1: Policy Letter from the Government of Georgia                                 59
MAP(S)
IBRD No.30786



GEORGIA
ROADS PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIN
Date: May 1, 2000                                 Team Leader: Antti P. Talvitie
Country Manager/Director: Judy M. O'Connor        Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: P040556                               Sector(s): TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
OI Loan         M Credit        C Grant         C Guarantee     O Odier (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 40.0 million
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.50 %                                 Service charge: 0.75%                        l
GOVERNMENT                                                     15.00           0.00          15.00
IBRD
IDA                                                             2.22          37.78         40.00
Total:                                                         17.22          37.78         55.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA
Responsible agency: STATE DEPARTMENT OF ROADS OF GEORGIA (SDRG)
Transport Reforn and Rehabilitation Center (TRRC)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual     5.0          12.0         12.0       11.0
Cumulative     5.0         17.0         29.0        40.0
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/17/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS PAD Fo- R. w  2CO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The project has three objectives: (i) reduce road transport costs and improve access in Georgia's major
traffic corridors; (ii) provide a steady and adequate level of funding for road maintenance (including routine
and periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction) based on charges related to road use and road
access; and (iii) improve management and effectiveness of the entire road network, including local roads,
through the institutional strengthening of the State Department of Roads of Georgia (SDRG) and the
development of the private road construction industry.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Reduction of total road transport costs by: (a) reducing the roughness of the road network through the
periodic maintenance of 281 km of roads and rehabilitation of 162 kms of roads; and (b) increasing the life
of the pavements through the revision of Georgia's technical standards and specifications for pavement
structures by the year 2003.
Provision of a stable and adequate level of funding for road maintenance by: (a) introduction of an
independent Board and audit of Road Fund operations commencing in calendar year 2001; (b) increases in
road financing equal to at least the increases in general Government revenues; and (c) introduction of a
revised set of road user and road access charges reflecting the costs of road use by the time of project
completion.
Improvement of road management and its effectiveness: (a) new functional classification for all public
roads under way by Dec. 2001; (b) a Pavement Management System (PMS-HDM4) is in place as an
operational management tool for the main road network rehabilitation and maintenance planning and
programming by December 2002; (c) a road data bank for the most important attributes is established by
June 2002 for the main roads, and for the entire public road network by the Credit closing date; (d)
monitoring of road conditions and costs of road improvements is initiated and road sector performance
indicators adopted by Dec. 2003; (e) all project related civil works are implemented by private contractors;
and (f) a three year rolling road program covering all proposed investments in the national road network
planned to be undertaken by SDRG is prepared and made public by November, 2001, and updated
annually thereafter.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17000-GE                Date of latest CAS discussion: 10/21/97
The Bank's strategy in Georgia rests on four themes: (i) strengthening public finance, (ii) deepening and
diversifying sources of growth, (iii) protecting the environment, and (iv) reducing poverty. The Bank's first
priority is to assist the Government to increase revenues and improve efficiency in expenditure management
and allocation in view of Georgia's weak public finance situation and fiscal 'crisis', while continuing to
provide balance of payments and budgetary support. The second priority is to help deepen and diversify
Georgia's sources of growth by removing barriers to private sector development. This will include
maintenance and rehabilitation of basic infrastructure, together with strengthening the regulatory
framework needed to attract available investment. Reducing barriers to private sector development and
investment is seen as vital to both the growth objective and poverty reduction. Protecting the environment
is important in view of the neglect of environmental issues during Soviet times, and reducing poverty is
- 2 -



essential to Georgia's long term growth objective in a country where the income of a large portion of the
population is still below the minimum subsistence level.
This project is consistent with the Bank's overall strategy in that it provides for an improvement in the basic
road infrastructure and its management that is essential for expanding Georgia's sources of growth and
reduction in poverty. This will be achieved through improvements in the main road network, through
improved allocation of available road resources among all roads, and, above all, through improved
governance and institutional capacity for maintaining and modernizing the entire road network. At the
macro level, the project will contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the Georgian private sector in
world markets by lowering transport costs and reducing delivery times. This will support investment, job
creation, and value added activities, with a commensurate positive impact on poverty. At the local level the
project will have a direct impact on poverty by creating jobs in the short term; for the long term, improved
roads are necessary for trade and economic growth. In the short term, jobs generate income and have a
multiplier effect on consumption of locally produced (primarily agricultural) goods and services. While it
is difficult to estimate the precise numbers, a conservative estimate is that about 3000 man years of
employment will be added to the economy. It is generally believed that the transport sector multiplier effect
on the rest of the economy is approximately two, translating into additional jobs and income.
Engineering, construction and maintenance of road segments supported by the project and the road fund,
and the technical co-operation activities, will be undertaken by the private sector with maximum local
participation. The project will thus have a direct impact on the development of the private sector. It is
important to note also that the Road Fund successfully contributed to the collection of taxes from the road
users in a country where generally tax and duty collection capacity is weak. This is indicated in the
stability and increase in the monies available for road management in the Road Fund. The Road Fund
audits by independent auditors, which will commence in 2001, will make road spending transparent and
improve road sector governance.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
1. Deterioration of road infrastructure. The most visible sector issue is the deterioration and inadequate
level of service of Georgia's road network. It is a critical barrier to private investment and growth in
Georgia. The deterioration has resulted from a combination of factors: (a) a precarious Government
financial situation; (b) lack of maintenance and investment in transport infrastructure since 1991; (c)
application of obsolete technology; and (d) lack of modem management and changes in the transport sector
institutional and governance structures.
A number of steps have already been taken to improve the financial situation in the transport sector and
reduce the Government's fiscal burden: (i) a Road Fund dedicated to preserving the road infrastructure with
a revised set of road user charges was introduced in 1995; (ii) State enterprises in road construction and
maintenance, road design institutes, and road transport carriers were privatized; and (iii) the staff and
activities of the remaining State entities were streamlined.
Ultimately, financing available for road management should be increased to a level appropriate to the
condition of the Georgian road network as determined using the Pavement Management System, with the
timing for realizing this objective related to the realities of Georgia's overall economic and financial
situation. By way of comparison, and adjusting for the road network length, Hungary is spending
approximately US$20 million per year for total road maintenance, and Finland approximately US$27
million per year. While Hungary does underfund its road maintenance, Finland does not. Both reference
countries also have much less maintenance backlog and more efficient road management than Georgia
today which is spending US$20-25 million annually on road maintenance, including the municipal roads
-3 -



and streets (see table on p. 7). It is of critical importance to determine, using the road management
systems, the annual funding targets for road maintenance to catch up with the backlog, and move toward
realizing this target as soon as realistically possible considering Georgia's difficult economic situation.
2. Ministry of Transport (MOT) Organizational Structure. The MOT was created in 1996 by the Georgian
Govemment to formulate and manage policy and regulation of the transport modes. Although useful, the
established structure did not appear to meet the policy making and regulatory needs of a market economy.
The Ministry's functioning has been hampered by overlapping and unclear responsibilities, unclear
legislative support for independent and commercial operations of the State's transport departments, and
inadequate capacity for sector policy development and management. To address sector organization issues,
the MOT decided to carry out an in-depth restructuring of the Ministry itself. This is being supported by
the World Bank through a technical assistance credit (LIL) of USD2.3 million (Credit No. 31290) for
Restructuring of the Ministry of Transport. The restructuring includes revising the Ministry's organization
and functions, staffing, skills mix and staff capacity, the Ministry's relationship with sectoral
administrations and departments, and implementation of management information systems.
3. Road Mananement issues. The State Department of Roads (SDRG) is responsible for managing
Georgia's road network covering 21,600 Ions of roads, of which 9,720 are paved and 11,800 kms are
gravel or earth roads. Of these, 1221 km are considered national (main) roads, 4792 km are secondary
roads, and 15,564 km are local roads. Streets are the responsibility of the municipalities, including the
urban sections of the main roads in Tbilisi and Kutaisi. SDRG is an independent organization reporting
directly to the State Chancellery. With meager appropriations from the central budget in the first years
after Independence, SDRG could not fulfill its mission. The establishment of the Road Fund in 1995, with
revenue collections from user or road access charges, has provided additional resources that are used
mainly for road maintenance.
SDRG was the recipient of the Bank's first transport project in Georgia, the Transport Rehabilitation
Project, through which it received assistance to initiate and implement reforms. Under that project, an
independent entity called the Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Centre (TRRC) was set up within the
Ministry of Transport to assist SDRG in project implementation. TRRC was responsible for the
administration of the Special Account, project accounting and financial management, procurement, and
project reporting. Since 1995, SDRG has gone through a substantial restructuring, making most of the
construction and maintenance units independent entities, shifting most of its periodic maintenance from
force account to private contractors through competitive bidding, acquiring new road maintenance
technology and equipment, strengthening laboratory and quality control procedures, reducing the amount of
state property owned by SDRG, and improving administrative procedures. SDRG's ongoing reform
process covers, inter alia, (i) continued privatization of road construction and maintenance units equipment
and materials (13 of the 14 construction plants have been privatized, 88 maintenance units are undergoing
consolidation into 10 units which are being privatized and approximately 75 percent of the State-owned
quarries, crushing plants, and asphalt plants have been privatized); and (ii) rationalization of SDRG's staff
after completion of the privatization program. The proposed project will continue to provide a sound
platform for sustaining the privatization and restructuring.
The project will focus on institutional strengthening and capacity building in order to modernize road
management. Accordingly, the project will support a broad technical assistance program whose aim is to
clarify the mission of the SDRG and improve its capacity to carry out this mission. Both the project's civil
works and technical assistance are scheduled to be undertaken with maximum local participation for
technology and knowledge transfer. Issues for which support is desired and indicated include management
systems, supported by appropriate data resources, for preparing budgets and for day-to-day decision
making; improved technical standards and specifications; an expanded traffic safety program; and
-4 -



improved contracting, procurement and financial management. To round out the technology transfer
process, many project implementation activities will be transferred from TRRC to SDRG, with TRRC
providing support to SDRG as necessary to assure satisfactory project implementation.
4. Road Priorities. The first priority of the Government is to improve its most heavily used roads serving
both intemational and domestic traffic. Transit traffic is important to Georgia in view of its strategic
location as a link in the east-west corridor that forms part of the Silk Road. This traffic will increase, and
will be an important source of income, if it can be provided with a convenient and reliable freight route
from Central Asia to the Middle East and Europe. There has been a shift in emphasis from trade with
Russia to increased trade from the Caucasus and Central Asia to the Black Sea ports. Recognizing the
constraints of the road network on economic development, the Government has decided to improve the
capacity and quality of its main highways. It has identified the major roads for the transit traffic and the
development strategy as the roads from the Azeri border to the Black Sea, the road from Tbilisi to
Armenia, and from Tbilisi to Russia. These important roads are in poor condition due to a combination of
deferred maintenance and increased traffic. The road link to Russia, which also serves the ski and tourist
areas in the southern Caucasus, was originally built to different standards and now suffers from severe
drainage-related damage. Further deferral of rehabilitation and maintenance of these roads would only
increase the costs both to the users and the Government. Rehabilitation of the East-West highway, the
Armenia-Georgia road and the road to Russia are, therefore, accorded high priority by the Government.
SDRG signed a loan agreement with the Kuwait Fund in March 2000 to rehabilitate a segment of the
Georgia-Armenia highway, and has sought the current IDA Credit for improvements on the East-West
highway, the road to Larsi at the Russian border, and for the completion of the rehabilitation of the road
from Thilisi to Armenia.
The second priority of the Govemment is to obtain the maximum benefit from its road program. This is
achieved by a broad institutional development program that supports improvements to the methods and
data resources to plan and prioritize civil works, modernization of the technical standards and
specifications used in engineering design, and progressive privatization and measurable accountability of
service delivery.
The third priority is traffic safety. In spite of improvements in recent years, traffic safety remains a
problem in the road sector. This is due to speed, lack of road markings, inadequate road design and lack of
coordination between the responsible organizations. Improvements to traffic safety will be sought by
studying the prevailing road safety situation and trends based on available data; proposing the legal basis
and traffic engineering means to monitor, coordinate and improve road and traffic safety; establishing road
safety policy; and developing a road safety program for Georgia.
5. Road Financino. Since Independence, the fiscal crisis in the country has prevented the Government
from providing the road sector with sufficient funding. The financial shortfall has led to a backlog of
deferred maintenance. A dialogue on road sector financing was started between the World Bank, Georgian
road sector agencies, and the Ministry of Finance under the Transport Rehabilitation project. This resulted
in the creation of the Road Fund (RF) under the Road Fund Law of 1995. Its main characteristics are
highlighted below.
The Georgian Road Fund presently functions as a division within SDRG. The head of the Road Fund is
appointed by SDRG's chairman and reports directly to him. However, road funds are often set up as a
separate legal entity, headed by a Chairman appointed by the minister (or even the President). A growing
number have representative boards with members nominated from key government ministries and road user
groups. Sometimes the Road Fund Board also oversees the road administration. In Georgia, in the absence
- 5 -



of an independent body that provides day-to-day oversight of the fund's activities, this role is filled by the
management of SDRG. Final responsibility for appropriate use of Road Fund revenues lies with the
Government of Georgia.
Approximately 15 staff members are employed in the Road Fund division of SDRG's headquarters unit.
This includes accounting staff who are maintaining both SDRG and Road Fund accounts. One of the major
activities of the Road Fund is monitoring collection of taxes. About 320 SDRG employees are involved in
this activity in the field.
The Georgian Road Fund derives its revenues from taxes on the fuel and lubricants, international transit
fees, and vehicle registration fees. It also obtains revenues from a tax of 1 percent on enterprise turnover,
and from tolls on tunnels. All of these sources except the enterprise turnover tax are user charges and
consistent with the notion that users' pay for road usage. The turnover tax, which is wholly used to
maintain local and municipal roads, can be considered a road access charge, which can be justified in the
short run by the fiscal constraints facing the Government. However, in the future it should be replaced by
charges more directly aligned to road use. The Road Fund law also addressed the rates in which user
charges are levied, but defines qualifying expenditures very broadly. Maintenance, repair, reconstruction
of the roads network, and road related research expenditures are all eligible expenses within the law. The
law does not provide guidelines or formulae for the allocation of funds between competing road classes,
road owners (e.g. national vs. local) or geographic areas. This function is left to the discretion of SDRG.
There is a need to revise the magnitude and type of user charges. For example, the intemational transit fees
will need to be made consistent with intemational practice. In Europe, such fees are now strictly limited,
and consistent in all cooperating countries. Georgia will, as an important transit country, want to adopt
similar practices, although the transition will need to be implemented in a regional context so that the
changes are made uniformly with Georgia's neighbors.
Financial status. Collection into the Road Fund was initiated in 1996, although revenues from the fuel
levy are documented only from 1998 onwards. The fuel tax revenues and enterprise turnover tax each
accounted for approximately 30 per cent of total Road Fund revenues in 1998, and the international transit
fees contributed another 25 per cent. The relative shares of the various sources are approximately the same
in the first 9 months of 1999 as in 1998, except for the fuel tax, which has increased to 32 percent and the
enterprise turnover tax, which has declined to about 25 percent of total revenues. Recent efforts by the
Govemment to reduce the smuggling of fuel into the country appear to have boosted the share of fuel tax
revenues.
Road Fund revenues increased steadily from 1996 to date. As these revenues have increased, the financial
support from the central Government budget for roads has been progressively reduced, and is expected to
be zero this year. Last year, the Government reduced the Road Fund's share of fuel tax revenues from 100
percent of collections to 30 percent. Despite this reduction in the Road Fund's share, total Road Fund
collections in 1999 ran higher than in 1998 in terns of Lari, but lower when converted into US dollars at
the average exchange rate for each year. Road Fund income for the year 2000 is estimated to be the
equivalent of about US$26 million, still short of the amount needed to maintain the road network
adequately but substantially greater than before the introduction of the Road Fund.
- 6-



Income of SDRG
(000 LARI)
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
.______               (est.)
Fuel taxes                                                             11724.0  13591.4  22200
Border Crossing Tax                            321.0  7169.0  8563.0  9855.3  10670.6  11000
Tax for vehicle ownership                              5913.0  5252.5  5541.1  5621.3   6500
Enterprise Turnover Tax                77.6   1051.1  5906.0  11659.3  10931.6  10461.8  10500
Tax from sale of oil/lubricants                 62.0   859.0   969.8  1279.1  1294.0   1300
Tunnel user charges                                            407.0   451.4   496.6    500
Charges for advertisements along roads                          60.0    78.7    59.2    200
Total Road Fund Income                 77.6   1434.1  19,847.0 26911.6 39861.2  42194.9  52200
Central Budget                        1054.7  5083.0  8595.0  8492.0  3527.0  300.0       0
TOTAL SDRG INCOME                      1132.3  6517.1  28442.0 35,403.6. 43,388.2 42,494.9  52,200
US DOLLAR EQUIVALENT*                  1,028   5,091   22,754  27,234  30,772  21,248  26,100
*Converted at average exchange rate each year
It has been the Government's intention that all road maintenance financing (except project counterpart
financing) would come from the Road Fund as collections increased. Thus, financing from the Central
Budget have steadily been decreasing since 1996. No financing from this source is expected in the year
2000 or thereafter.
The financial situation of the country makes it impossible to allocate 100 percent of fuel taxes to the Road
Fund. A formula for allocation that takes into account the projected financial needs of the road network,
the growth in the fuel tax base, and other revenue sources of the central budget needs to be determined. It
is also important to establish independent governance for the Road Fund, including representatives of the
road users. The pace of sector development will be determined by the future level of resource mobilization
and its efficient utilization.
In discussions with the Government, it has been agreed that the restructuring of the Road Fund during the
project needs to address the following issues: (i) transformation of revenue to the Road Fund to genuine
road user and road access charges (based on functional classification and ownership of the roads), possibly
as a tariff on fuel, lubricants and vehicle ownership; (ii) benefit-cost based prioritization of Road Fund
expenditures (using the PMS); (iii) allocation procedures for Road Fund revenues between categories of
roads and geographic areas; (iv) setting up the Road Fund under the supervision of an independent Board
(rather than as a department in SDRG), with representation from the road users, with transparent financial
procedures and management, including annual audits by independent auditors; and (v) a more efficient
monitoring and collection of Road Fund revenue. However, the Government prefers to make these changes
gradually, since changes to the Road fund revenue sources and allocation mechanism has the potential of
upsetting State budget agreements. Also, some of the changes would benefit from the adoption and use of
the Pavement Management System.
-7-



The first step in the process of revising the Road Fund will be taken when the Fund legislation is extended
at the end of calendar year 2000. At that time, the Road Fund will be established as an independent legal
entity governed by a Road Fund Board, with provision for transparency in its operations, including annual
financial reports and audits by independent auditors. The Government will then work with IDA during
project implementation to make revisions in the road user charges and in the structure of the Road Fund
administration, as provided in the Credit Agreement.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Reduction in Road Maintenance Backlog. Reducing road transport costs through timely periodic
maintenance and improving maintenance effectiveness are one of the major objectives of the project A
study carried out by an international consultant for a neighboring country with similar road conditions
estimated that the poor condition of the roads added from 28 to 44 percent to vehicle operating costs. The
project addresses the need to reduce these costs by increasing periodic road maintenance and rehabilitation
during the next four years. Road improvements for Georgia's most traveled roads would reduce road
roughness and thus reduce both travel time and vehicle maintenance costs. In addition, the project includes
technical assistance to revise technical standards and specifications for pavement structures in order to
increase the life of pavements.
It is a strategic choice to focus first on the main roads for several reasons. First, the main roads are in the
worst condition and carry the most traffic, much of it income-generating intemational transit traffic.
Consequently, the direct benefits from improvements to these roads are high. Second, the project roads
traverse through or near the most populous areas and also serve the tourist areas in the Caucasus and
Borjomi. Third, the project will have an immediate positive effect on both urban and rural employment and
consumption as workers are engaged to carry out the work, and as the population in the vicinity benefit
from better access. And fourth, the project will increase the competitiveness of Georgian industries and
transit traffic. All of these benefits combined will serve a large segment of Georgia's population.
Restructuring the Road Fund. The project will assist the Government in establishing a long-term, stable
flow of road user related funds for road management. Thus far the Road Fund has protected the road
sector funding in the face of demands from all sectors for budgetary resources, which has helped to create a
viable private sector road construction industry. The next step is to commercialize the road sector, in part
by restructuring the Road Fund and improving its management.
Improving Sector Management Capacity. Better quality and efficiency of road management operations
and continued improvement in road traffic safety are desirable in Georgia. This will entail better selection
of the roads to be repaired and the type and technology of repair employed; the use of modern management
systems; better technical standards, material specifications and conduct of work; funding of traffic and road
safety; and increased efficiencies from competitive contracting, improved quality control and better
technology. The TA program includes renewing the road management framework by revising the
functional classification of roads; capacity building for planning and monitoring performance road
programs and the SDRG, and underpinning them with adequate data resources and management systems;
modernization of technical standards and specifications; training in the supervision of civil works;
development of a program to improve traffic and road safety (including its institutional framework); and
strengthening in contracting, procurement, and financial management. In project implementation, TRRC
will support SDRG to improve its procurement, project accounting and financial management capabilities.
Improved Road Safety Conditions& The road safety component of the project will include the first steps
necessary for setting up a road safety program for Georgia. The actual impact on road safety will be small
during the project implementation period, since it will take some time to organize a program, train Georgian
-8 -



professionals, gather data, and then find the resources to carry out the measures indicated by the planning
process. Nevertheless, this will be an important and necessary step that will pave the way for a program
with greater impact in the future. The institutional development program of the Credit will integrate the
results of the road safety component into overall road management to ensure that adequate resources in the
SDRG budget will be directed to improving road and traffic safety over the medium term. The project also
plans to involve the Global Road Traffic Safety Partnership (GRTSP) in SDRG's road traffic safety
initiatives.
Continued Private Sector Support and Development. The project will provide a platform for sustained
private sector development. All project related civil works will be implemented by private contractors.
Also, three year rolling road programs covering all proposed investments, including traffic safety work, in
the national road network planned by SDRG are made public in order to provide information for private
sector business planning.
Improved Regional Transport Links. The project will make an important contribution to regional
transport in several ways. First, a substantial part of the civil works will go toward the improvement of the
east-west road running from the Azerbaijan border to the ports on the Black Sea, thus reducing the cost of
the intemational traffic from Central Asia and Azerbaijan to Europe. This road, identified by TRACECA
as the "Silk Road", is expected to be increasingly important for traffic between these points in the years
ahead. Second, the road section from Mamueli to Sadakhlo, which is part of the route from Tbilisi to
Yerevan, will be improved. This road, which is the shortest route between the two capitals, has
deteriorated so badly that traffic volume has dropped from 3,000 vpd in 1994 to about 1,000 vpd at
present, with vehicles now moving over the longer altemative route from  Mamueli to Guguti.
Reconstruction of this road will therefore reduce the cost of road transport between the two capitals.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
AU indicative cost figures include price and physical contingencies and all taxes. See Map No. 30786 for
the location of project works outlined below. The project description is based on designs made from survey
information of road conditions that are continually deteriorating. Therefore, designs for the second and
subsequent year work programs will be reviewed each year and updated as necessary to reflect the
conditions of the road at that time. This will cause changes in the lengths and treatments, and project
indicators will of necessity be adjusted to reflect this.
-9-



la. Periodic maintenance and repair of  Highways      16.77      30.5      11.90      29.8
priority sections of the main road
network, including 470 km of drainage
upgrading, and 281 km of surface
treatment consisting of a leveling layer
of asphalt concrete followed by either
a single or double surface dressing.
lb. Rehabilitation of about 162 kms of  Highways      29.38      53.4      20.90      52.3
the main road network, including a
leveling layer and either a single or
double asphalt concrete overlay, plus
related improvements in shoulders, road
markings and signs, and drainage
lc. Reconstruction of two bridges.  Highways           5.35        9.7      3.80       9.5
2. Strengthening institutional capacity   Institutional  3.00      5.5      3.00       7.5
of SDRG, including consultant services  Development
to update functional classification of
roads; modernizing the Road Fund and
Road User Charges; development of a
traffic safety program; installing a
pavement management system and a
road data bank; updating existing
technical standards and specifications
to international practice; installing a
financial management system;
improving the management and
administration of contracts; planning of
maintenance activities and sectoral
performance indicators; training for the
above; funds for financial audits of the
project accounts; and equipment for
carrying out road management
functions, including traffic counters, a
deflectometer, mobile weighing scales,
testing equipment, field laboratory,
office equipment and supplies, and
vehicles.
3. Incremental operating costs for  Institutional      0.50        0.9      0.40       1.0
project management (TRRC)          Development
Total Project Costs                   55.00      100.0     40.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                   55.00      100.0     40.00      100.0
- 10 -



While the revision of the Road Fund is not a distinct project component, it is nevertheless an important
aspect of the project as it is central to achieving the second objective of providing a steady and adequate
level of funding for road maintenance. The Government has, in a letter dated December 21, 1999 (attached
in Annex 11), from the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economy, and the Head of the SDRG to the
World Bank, stated that a Commission has been appointed to prepare a package of proposals to ensure the
establishment of a permanent Road Fund dedicated to road maintenance with an allocation mechanism to
support both the economic and social objectives of the SDRG, and with an objective system for sharing the
revenues with the local administrations for the maintenance of local roads. The Road Fund will also have a
management framework that includes representatives of road users and other private sector stakeholders,
and operates under transparent financial procedures. Thus, there is agreement on the kind of Road Fund
that is to be established. The process will be facilitated by holding a workshop for all interested parties to
discuss the issues and to work out the details.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports the following sector reforms:
(a) revision and updating of technical standards and specifications for pavement structures.
(b) restructuring the income sources and administration of the Road Fund, including the road user and
road access charges, to support road management.
(c) broad-based strengthening and development of new institutional capabilities to manage the road
assets and provide affordable, high quality service to road users.
(d) the development and sustainability of a private road construction and consulting industry capable of
operating in a competitive environment.
3. Benefits and target population:
The quantified benefits of investments in this project will consist of accident reductions and travel time and
vehicle operating cost savings for passengers and goods transport. Savings derive from improved roads
and much improved level of service on the most trafficked roads. The high rates of return (ERR) and Net
Present Values indicate that the anticipated benefits are considerable. Beneficiaries include all road users,
particularly domestic commercial freight transport operators, international shippers, public transport,
private business and tourist passenger travel, and farmers who move their products to market. Due to a
paucity of data, it was not possible to calculate the benefits separately for freight and passenger traffic, or
for different income groups. If the Georgian economy continues to grow, the estimated benefits represent a
conservative estimate, given the present modest traffic volumes and poor conditions of the Georgian road
network.
^-1 1-



Road user benefits will also have both short and long term multiplier effects for job creation, and for
manufacturing, trade, land markets, and tourism. The project roads traverse through or near the most
populous and important cities and towns in Georgia. The project also improves road segments that serve
the tourist and ski and historical areas in the Caucasus and Borjomi. It will have an immediate positive
effect on employment and consumption as workers are engaged to carry out the work, as well as from
better access to markets. The project will also improve the competitiveness of Georgian industries, and
increase the transit traffic (believed to constitute a high percentage of the truck traffic) to and from the
Black Sea ports. All combined will increase consumption of locally produced goods and services, including
food stuffs, and will especially benefit the service industries and the farmers, large and small.
The project should also lead to reduced costs of road maintenance through the increased use of competitive
bidding procedures. Until recently, all Georgian road construction was carried out by force account,
through a network of regional branches of the SDRG. These are now private road construction and road
maintenance firms that will compete for contracts under standard Bank bidding procedures and
international supervision. It is expected that the competition in the market, an important development
objective of this project, will lead to reduced unit costs with immediate benefits to the road (and national)
budget.  Cost reductions are also expected from the adoption of modern standards and technical
specifications, as the roads are expected to last longer and serve traffic better.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation arrangements. The IDA credit will be channeled through the Ministry of Finance. The
project will be implemented by the SDRG, with financial management assistance and support for
procurement from TRRC. TRRC has experience in implementing World Bank projects and will transfer
that knowhow to SDRG during the project. SDRG will be responsible for all technical aspects of the
project, including but not limited to planning, procurement, and implementation of civil works, institutional
strengthening and training. Supervision of works will be carried out by independent consultants. SDRG
will also have responsibility for preparing short lists of consultants, in accordance with IDA guidelines,
pre-selected to participate in the bidding for supervision works.  TRRC will be responsible for
administration of the Special Account and project accounting, including consolidating accounting and
reporting for all project components. It will also assist SDRG in all matters, especially the commercial
aspects of contracting civil works and procurement (for further details, see annex 6). A Project Agreement
that defines the respective roles and responsibilities of each organization, acceptable to IDA, has been
consummated.
Project financial management (see Attachment 1 of Annex 6). A financial management system for the
project will be maintained within TRRC where project accounting, reporting, monitoring and auditing
arrangements will be centralized. Accounts will be maintained in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and practices satisfactory to IDA. The system will be documented in a Project
Financial Management and Operational Manual. Key actions relating to the financial management
completed before negotiations include: (i) establishment of an operational, integrated accounting system
satisfactory to IDA, adequate to reflect the operations, resources, and expenditures related to the project;
and (ii) beginning the selection of private independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Inadequacies identified
in the project financial management system and actions required to remedy the situation are detailed in a
time-bound Action Plan that was discussed and agreed at negotiations. The action plan and format of
agreed quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) are available in Project Files.
- 12 -



Disbursements will initially be made on the basis of traditional disbursement procedures. TRRC will be
responsible for preparing and maintaining accounting records, preparing quarterly Project Management
Reports (PMRs) and annual Project Financial Statements. The PMRs will be submitted to the Bank with
the progress report on a quarterly basis. The financial statements will be audited annually by private
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and audit reports with accompanying audited financial statements
submitted to IDA no later than six months after end of each fiscal year. The financial reporting
requirements and auditing arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.
In order to assure that counterpart financing is available to finance the Government's share of the civil
works contracts, a local currency Project Account will be set up. The Government will deposit sufficient
funds in this account to cover contractual obligations for the first four months (estimated at US$585,000),
with replenishments made periodically as this amount is drawn down.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A major alternative project design that included railways, ports, and aviation, with a substantial effort to
transform the institutions in these modes to more market-oriented structures was- considered. This option
was abandoned in favor of a project focused more narrowly on the road subsector for these reasons: (i)
numerous organizational changes already made by the SDRG are still nominal, requiring continued
concentration on this agency in order to make these changes truly effective in terms of investment selection,
construction costs and performance; (ii) the reform of the port sector already has been included in the
Structural Adjustment Loan Ill, with the promise of private sector funding of capital investments; (iii) other
multi-lateral and bi-lateral financial institutions have become involved in railways and the aviation sector,
with a potential of bringing in both investment and technical assistance funds; and (iv) exclusion of other
modes from this project does not in any way affect either the need or opportunity for the Bank to be
involved with transport sector reforms, including but not limited to the ongoing Ministry of Transport
Restructuring Project (see below).
Other World Bank lending programs were considered, but were found to be less suitable than regular
development lending. Adaptable Program Lending (APL) is not suitable for several reasons: (i) APLs
require anticipating longer term Bank/IDA financing requirements, which is inappropriate for maintenance
lending since this should be replaced by financing from domestic sources on the basis of appropriate road
user charges; and (ii) future availability of IDA resources is uncertain. Sector adjustment lending is not
appropriate for the same reasons. Regular development lending, with its mixture of institution building and
financing for physical infrastructure over a four year time frame, is well suited for the financing
requirements that can be anticipated at this time.
- 13 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Inlementpton    Development
Bank-financed                                                          Pr     (HP)    ObjectOve (DO)
Sector Policy Reform                  Transport Rehabilitation             S              HS
Project in Georgia (completed)
Commercialization of sector enterprises Transport Rehabilitation           S              HS
Project in Georgia (completed)
Institutional restructuring           LIL for a Restructuring of the
Ministry of Transport in
Georgia (ongoing)
Port sector reform                    Structural Adjustment Loan IIl
in Georgia (ongoing)
Road Fund                             Road projects in Romania,            S               S
Poland, Hungary, and the Baltic
States have addressed the issue
of Road Funds and road
financing.
Technical standards and specifications  Road projects in Hungary and       S               S
Poland have included
modernization of the technical
standards.
Road Management Systems               Road projects in Hungary,            S               S
Poland, and the Baltic States
have included the development
of road data banks and road
and bridge management
systems.
Competition and development of the    Road projects in Georgia,            S               S
construction and consulting companies. Hungary, Poland, Romania,
and the Baltic States, have
included this component
Other development agencies                                           -.......
Roads, Rail, and Ports restructuring    TRACECA (EU) TA to Roads,                   ..............
Rails and Ports, EBRD (                                ................
railways)                                      ............
Port Reform                           USAID Port Privatization                                 .............
, .. .. . ...........  ..,......   ..     ........   S... ..   i. ....... ....   ...
TRACECA, EBRD                 .    ......
Road rehabilitation, including a portion Kuwait Fund
of the road corridor to Armenia
Improvement of Road Transport         TRACECA program
Services                                                              .
. . ..   :- .' . .--.-.- .   .., -:-.  -..'''..   .:::'-:;.'''--;.:.-:
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 14 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has broad experience in financing improvements of inter-urban roads in different parts of the
world, including Eastern Europe. Highway rehabilitation projects similar to this one have been
financed in the Baltic countries, Russia, Armenia and elsewhere. Past reviews of Bank-financed
highway projects have confirmed the importance of maintaining existing systems; this is something that
Georgia is now well aware of and has incorporated in its road operations. Other lessons derived from
the Bank's work in the sector relate to: a) the importance of improved road planning and programming,
including more reliable information and management methods and the application of economic criteria;
(b) the need to strengthen institutional performance, particularly by competitive contracting of road
maintenance to the private sector; and (c) the need to assure a reliable source of financing for road
management from a system of road user charges and the establishment of a Road Fund based on the
principles of the 'second generation' road funds. These experiences will benefit the project and its
implementation.
The Bank has extensive experience with Road Funds. It has learned that the details of a Road Fund
must be tailored to the country's conditions; many traditional road funds have foundered, and some
organizational arrangements work much better than others. To give the best chance for successful
operation, a Road Fund should be governed by an independent Board or commission with a competent
secretariat. The Board should be composed of representatives of the government, business community,
farmers and representatives of the country's road user organizations, and should meet on a regular
basis. It should operate in an open and transparent manner, keep accounts that are subject to
independent audit, have a clear legal basis for its establishment, and have a clear definition of which
expenditures can be financed from the Fund. This experience has already been related to IDA's
Georgian counterparts, and will form the basis for the revised Road Fund that will be established
during the implementation period of the project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Since independence, Georgia has aspired to a role as the crucial link in a land corridor for trade
between Europe and Asia for oil and container traffic. The Government is not only interested in the
transit revenues but also the ancillary domestic industry that such trade would generate. The
Govermment is committed to market oriented reforms throughout the transport sector not only in
support of its efforts to rebuild the Georgian economy but also for establishing Georgia as an important
transport corridor. A major step in this direction is the institutional restructuring of the Ministry of
Transport, which the Government has started under the IDA-financed Learning and Innovation Loan.
The Government has prepared a Transport Sector Policy that states in detail the overall direction that
Georgia is committed to follow. The Bank also received a letter dated December 21, 1999, signed by
the Minister of Transport and the Director of SDRG, stating the Government's intentions regarding a
revised structure and tax base for the Road Fund.
-15 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank will help assure that the experience leamed to develop, manage, implement and operate a
multi-year road program is available and applied in Georgia. This will include the use of economic
analysis techniques as a basis for prioritizing road improvements, competitive contracting, advanced
road maintenance technology, quality control systems, modem road financing practices, up-to-date
technical standards, timely data and information sources and systems, and continued organization and
human resource development. The Bank will also play a role in supporting the development and
utilization of the private sector in road maintenance, engineering and construction.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV-US$102.3 million; ERR = 50 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The road sections and bridges included in the project were selected from a preliminary list prepared by
SDRG. A cost benefit analysis was carried out by the Georgian Transport Reform and Rehabilitation
Center of the Ministry of Transport, supported by external consultants, and the final selection was based on
that analysis. The road investment component includes (i) periodic maintenance of sections of the main
road network, (ii) rehabilitation of sections of the main road network, and (iii) reconstruction of two
bridges. A set of maintenance, rehabilitation, and reconstruction strategies were compared using the
Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM). Economic rates of return (ERRs) and net present values
(NPVs) were calculated from incremental costs and benefits. The benefits included are savings in road
user costs due to improved pavement conditions, and road agency savings in future maintenance costs
arising from timely rehabilitation. The NPV is calculated using a 12 percent cost of capital and a 20 year
analysis period. The ERR and the NPV by type of civil works are shown in the table below. Traffic
volumes over the road sections under consideration were in the range of 1000 to 8,000 vehicles per day,
with an average traffic of 4,000 vpd. The network traffic was assumed to grow at about 8.8 percent per
year in the year 2000, and at 5.5 percent per year from 2001 and beyond.
ERR (%)                      NPV, (USS million)
Routine and Periodic maintenance 64                        10.4
Rehabilitation               40                            26.9
Reconstruction of two bridges    65                        65
The overall ERR and the NPV are estimated to be 50 percent and US$102.3 million, respectively.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out based on an increase in investment costs of 20 percent and a decrease
in the rate of traffic increase of 30 percent. An increase in investment costs reduces the ERRs for the three
components shown above to 38, 37 and 44 percent, respectively, and the NPVs to US$7.6 million,
US$21.8 million, and US$67.8 million, respectively. A 30 percent decrease in the rate of traffic increase
reduces the ERRs to 25 percent, 29 percent, and 36 percent respectively, and the Net Present Values drop
to US$3.1 million, US$12.1 million, and US$43.5 million respectively. All of these values are quite
satisfactory.
- 16 -



2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
There are no revenue-earning project entities.
Financial Management and Accoundng: See Annex 6
Fiscal Impact:
Counterpart funds at the level indicated below will be required:
US$ MiHlion
CY 2000       CY 2001        CY 2002        CY 2003        CY 2004
IDA funds           3.0            11.0          11.0           11.0           4.0
Counterpart         1.1            4.2            4.2           4.2             1.3
finds
The Government counterpart funding will be provided from the Central Budget rather than from the Road
Fund. The Government share of project financing, which equals 27.3 percent of total project costs, appears
high for a country with Georgia's fiscal constraints. However, the reason for this is that the project costs
include the 20 percent VAT, which will add to the Government's revenue collections by an equal amount.
If VAT is excluded from the project costs, the Government's share of project financing is reduced to 14.4
percent.
The fiscal impact of the repayment of the IDA credit will be borne by the Ministry of Finance, based on
payments to be made from the Road Fund. The Ministry of Finance gave assurances to the appraisal
mission that Government budgets and Road Fund revenues would be increased as necessary to allow for an
adequate level of resources for both counterpart funding of the project and for normal road maintenance
activities. Even without an increase in Road Fund income, in the years of maximum impact the repayment
requirements from the Road Fund would equal only 5.6 percent of the Road Fund revenues. At the same
time, the availability of IDA funds would increase the total amount of funding available for road
maintenance during the next four years.
3. Technical:
The State Department of Roads of Georgia (SDRG) is still using the Soviet technical specifications for its
road maintenance and construction works, although these specifications are no longer state of the art for
road work. They will be updated and revised to be consistent with the best practice in Europe. Also, road
rehabilitation techniques not yet in common use in Georgia, such as remixing and cold emulsions, will be
introduced where appropriate. These technical improvements are expected to make maintenance more cost
effective through reductions in cost and extensions of the useful life of the roads.
- 17 -



4. Institutional:
A broad institutional development effort is proposed to be undertaken during the Roads Project's
implementation with the aim of maximum knowledge and technology transfer. This will be achieved with
the assistance of a qualified international consulting firm with extensive experience in all of the areas listed,
utilizing a combination of long and short term consultant personnel. The program will consist of the
following elements:
(a)    Technical standards and specifications for pavement structures:
The existing specifications for materials, structures and the conduct of work need to be updated to
match the European practice. The work includes quality assurance and the acquisition of the
associated laboratory.
(b)    Development of the road data bank and a pavement management system:
Modem road management requires timely information and management systems. A road data bank
supports the information needs, and the (HDM4) pavement management system the planning,
programming and engineering decisions.
(c)    Strengthening contracting and procurement administration:
Improved contracting and procurement, and contract management and contract supervision serves
the objective of creating the maximum level of competition and adoption of new technologies.
(d)    A program to improve traffic safety:
The program would consist of establishing a crash data base, road safety audit system, and the
development of Road Safety Policy with attendant legal and institutional framework.
(e)   Institutional development and training to encompass:
o  Capacity to develop a national road program. The improved data and management systems
and the Road Fund lend themselves to the development of multi-year road programs based on
economic and other criteria The objective is to create an annual cycle of planning and
programming to improve SDRG service delivery, serve community interests and private sector
business planning.
*   Improvement of SDRG financial management systems (See Annex 6).
3   Definition of SDRG outputs and performance indicators for the road sector to assist SDRG
managers to define the most important performance indicators. The indicators should reflect
the important road management objectives (accessibility; equity; safety; environment;
community and economic development; the road administration service delivery; road
condition; and asset value). The indicators should also reflect he concerns of stakeholders, the
Government, SDRG, and the user community.
(f)    Functional classification of the road network:
Functional classification of roads into arterial, collector and local roads is fundamental to road
management. It is used for assigning jurisdictional responsibility (road ownership), system
planning, distribution of funds, evaluation of road space needs, access management, design
standards, and data collection. The process of functional classification is important so that the road
network is of right size and serves the entire country equitably.
(g)    Supervision of the road works:
The consultant who will provide the support for SDRG institutional strengthening will also be
responsible for the supervision of the project's civil works, with the maximum use of local
professionals in carrying out this responsibility.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The State Department of Roads of Georgia (SDRG) will be the primary implementing agency, assisted by
TRRC, as described below. The SDRG and TRRC have entered into a Project Implementation Agreement
acceptable to IDA spelling out their respective responsibilities (see Section G).
- 18 -



4.2 Project management:
SDRG will be the main implementing agency, with responsibility for preparation of the designs, bidding
documents, letting and supervision of contracts, and satisfactory completion of works.
TRRC will be responsible for project accounting, financial management reporting, administration of the
Special Account, auditing, assuring that the World Bank procurement rules are followed, and coordination
with IDA and other donors.
A Tender Committee has been established in SDRG, with TRRC acting as the Committee's secretariat. The
committee will oversee the competitive bidding arrangements and the approval of civil works and
consultant contracts.
Each year by June 30, SDRG will prepare a work program of project activities for the coming year,
including planned procurement activities and counterpart requirements. The work program will be
submitted through TRRC and reviewed with IDA before implementation. TRRC will, with inputs from
SDRG, prepare quarterly progress reports covering all major aspects (physical, financial, procurement,
environmental, social) of project implementation progress. A comprehensive mid-term review will be held
by June 30, 2002, to review implementation progress of both physical and institutional components of the
project as defined and agreed in the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan. Within 6 months of closing
of the project, TRRC will prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR), which will be reviewed by
and discussed with IDA.
4.3 Procurement issues:
TRRC is experienced in World Bank procurement procedures since it was responsible for implementing
two previous IDA-financed projects. While SDRG will now be responsible for procurement, TRRC will be
available to assist and to make available its knowledge of Bank procedures.
4.4 Financial management issues:
As with procurement, TRRC is thoroughly familiar with World Bank financial management procedures.
TRRC will have responsibility for project accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. It
will also be responsible for maintenance and operation of the Special Account and Project Account. A
basic accounting system is in place and meets Bank's minimum financial management requirements, but
requires customization to project required Project Management Reports (PMRs). The assessment of the
financial management system is presented in Annex 6.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
This is a maintenance and rehabilitation project in which existing alignments will be retained. Therefore,
the environmental impacts will be related to project works.  Direct negative impacts arise from: (i)
production and application of bituminous products, (ii) quarrying of stone and gravel; (iii) short term
impacts as noise, dust, and traffic disruption from works execution, (iv) removal of waste materials, and
(v) drainage and erosion. A mitigation plan to minimize potential negative impacts has been prepared by
the Borrower with assistance from IDA and is on file.
-19 -



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The key issues requiring attention involve the asphalt plants, rock crushing stations, drainage and, in a few
areas, erosion. Because of the Government's fiscal situation, virtually no road maintenance or construction
has taken place in the past several years. There has been no money or need to modernize the old asphalt
plants. Furthermore, the old plants have been dismantled and only a few can (and need) be repaired for
use. Because it is only after the contracts have been awarded when it will be known which plants need to
be repaired, the environmental mitigation plan focuses on the process of certifying asphalt plants, and in
some cases, the quarries, and improving the drainage design. Certification of the plants is a precondition
for contract award. Whenever possible, specific actions have already been proposed and undertaken.
Several quarries and crushing plants have been certified. It is anticipated that for most asphalt and
crushing plants, the first phase of environmental improvement consists of the installation of scrubbers and
filters to cleanse the dust. For drainage and erosion, the mitigation is approached through the design of the
subprojects.
The essence of the mitigation plan is observation to assure adherence to Georgia's environmental laws and
requirements. - If violations occur, the first step is to work with the firm or organization to correct the
procedure or device. If violations persist stoppage of work is imposed leading to contract cancellation
unless corrective measures are taken. Because, for the most part, the environmental impacts in the project
are positive and there is an interest in the part of the Borrower to improve the asphalt plants, the EMP is
adequate and appropriate.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 11/02/1999
This analysis is based on an environmental review conducted in January 1999 as part of the Georgia Roads
Project preparation. Preliminary consultations took place in conjunction with a mission to Georgia in
October 1998, and consultations with environmental specialists of the World Bank took place during
December 1998 and early January of 1999. The review included consultations with the State Department
of Roads of Georgia, the Road Design Institute (SAKGZAPROJECT), the Road Research Institute
(SAKGZAMETSNIEREBA), the Ministry of Environment, and with selected NGOs interested in
environmental issues.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The review included consultations with the State Department of Roads of Georgia, Road Design Institute,
the Road Research Institute, the Ministry of Environment and with selected NGOs interested in
environmental issues. A "stakeholder" meeting was organized by SDRG and TRRC and held in October,
1999, to inform interested parties of the Credit, its likely content, and the environmental requirements. The
draft environmental mitigation and monitoring plan was distributed at the meeting. Fifty persons
representing affected municipalities and interested contractors attended the meeting.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
A working group for liaison and auditing will be responsible for monitoring the mitigation plan and
ensuring that, certification processes are valid and followed.  The working group will consist of
-20 -



representatives of the MOE, TRRC, SDRG, and one NGO working with environmental issues. The
Deputy Minister of the MOE will appoint the chairman. TRRC will serve as the secretary of the group.
Compliance with certification will be verified by the conduct of site audits. The first set of audits will be
conducted within six months of the commencement of road maintenance activities; subsequent sets will be
conducted one and two years later. The group will meet as necessary but at least once between each IDA
supervision mission and after each annual audit. Finally, the supervision missions will follow-up on the
appropriateness and success of the mitigation plan to counter negative environmental impacts (if any). If
necessary, remedial actions will be proposed and adopted. The monitoring plan is consistent with the EMP.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Between 1990-94, real wages in Georgia fel by 90 percent, and unemployment is estimated to have risen
from negligible amounts to about 20 percent in urban areas. The Government has gradually increased the
share of wages and social benefits in public spending, but poverty remains persistent and widespread. The
CAS emphasizes revenue enhancing actions and efficiency gains in public spending to assist in increasing
the compressed public expenditures and making their use more effective.
While not specifically targeted to the poor, this project contributes to poverty alleviation by job creation for
implementing the civil works components in the short run and in creating employment opportunities in the
longer run through support for overall economic development of the country. The principal beneficiaries
will be the commercial sector, but agricultural producers and small businesses winl also benefit from better
access to markets and employment opportunities. The wide geographical scope of investments implies that
also the benefits will be widely distributed.
The project will provide direct benefits to transport operators, service providers, industries, and general
road users through improvement of road transport efficiency and road safety on Georgia's main
intemational links.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The formulation of the Transport Rehabilitation Project, the Ministry of Transport Restructuring LIL, and
preparatory documents for this project were the result of collaboration between private and public
stakeholders led by TRRC. The list of parties consulted included: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Environment, the Intemational Monetary Fund, NGOs and transport companies (rail, road, air, maritime).
Meetings and workshops have been held with affected interest groups such as the Chamber of Commerce,
the Road Transporters Association, the Contractors, and the interested public regarding environmental
impacts of the project and their mitigation, the likely contracts available for tendering, and the prospects for
improvements in road network conditions as a result of the project. The concept of participation will also
be incorporated into the Road Fund by the expected composition of the Road Fund Board to include
representatives of road users in addition to Govemment agencies. It is also expected that the institutional
development and professional capacity building activities that will be undertaken in the technical assistance
will include participation of interested stakeholders.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not applicable.
-21 -



6.4 What institutional affangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not applicable.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not applicable.
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do an of the following safeuard  olicies 1.R&  to the roect?
El Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes Oi No
LI Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04. Gr 4.04)                    L Yes I No
El Forestry (OP 4.36. gP 4.36)                                     El Yes M No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       EL Yes M No
El Cultural Property fOPN 11.03)                                   O Yes O No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     L Yes M No
L Involuntary Resettlement (OD 430)                                EJ Yes 1 No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37                                El Yes M No
Li Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50. GP 7.50)    L Yes M No
EL Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60. GP 7.60)          EL Yes 1 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See para 5 for the Environmental Assessment.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
There are two main risks to sustainability. The first is the availability of a long term, stable source of road
sector financing, which the project addresses through its Road Fund component. The second is the quality
of civil works supported by the project, where adherence to acceptable standards will be assured by the use
of intemational consultants for supervision of the civil works.
-22-



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
1. Vehicle operating cost reduction as a  N         Ensure quality of works.
result of road works is lower than
expected
2. No substantial improvements in road     M        Improve selection procedures for the staff and
maintenance from the use of the road                their training
management system and new planning
procedures
3. Administrative and financial            S        Dialogue with the Government and SDRG, and
management changes introduced in the                improved selection procedures for the staff and
road fund do not result in improved road            their training. Letter of Development Policy.
maintenance.                                        Financial management Action Plan.
4. Quality of design and materials of civil  M      Review of designs by intemational consultant,
works is substandard.                               updating of technical standards and use of
intemational consultant for the supervision of
works.
From Components to Outputs
1. Government counterpart funds are not    S        Advance deposit of counterpart funds is
available                                           designed to reduce this risk; creation of an
effective Road Fund should also serve to reduce
this risk.
2. Operational capacity of SDRG is not     M        Discussions with SDRG, and improved selection
sufficient                                          procedures for the staff and their training.
3. Insufficient competition in letting     S        Contract packaging and procurement
contracts                                           supervision schedule are designed to mrinimize
this risk.
4. Funding made available from the Road    S        Dialogue with and commitment from
Fund to SDRG may not be adequate to                 Government.
maintain the main road network
5. The Govemment could decide not to       N        TRRC's role will be a condition of the Credit
provide financing for TRRC's operations             Agreement
Overall Rlsk Rating                        S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Rlsk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
SDRG generally prefers the use of local contractors for road rehabilitation works. Discussions with SDRG
and road construction interest groups during the pre-appraisal and the appraisal missions focused on
explaining Bank procurement guidelines and opportunities for local participation in civil works, whether
the bidding procedure used is LCB or ICB. Also, local contractors have an option to work in joint ventures
with international contractors and consultants. The discussions led to Borrower agreement with the
proposed procurement plan (see Annex 6).
- 23 -



There may be resistance to modified or increased road user charges, even when collected for the specific
purposes of the Road Fund. The willingness of road users to pay road user charges rests on public
information, involvement of the public in road program development, and public awareness that the
collected income is in fact spent on road improvements.
There also can be resistance to restructuring the Road Fund and opening the Road Fund Board to road user
representatives.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1. The Government has opened a project account and a special account in commercial banks satisfactory to
IDA.
2. The Government will deposit in the project account counterpart funds sufficient to cover contractual
obligations for the first four months (estimated at US$585,000).
3. The Government has submitted to IDA for review and approval a draft agreement making the proceeds
of the Credit available to SDRG on the same terms and conditions as the IDA Credit.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Dated covenants. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
1. The Government will implement the financial management action plan according to the TOR agreed at
negotiations by December 31, 2000.
2. The Govemnment will appoint auditors for the project accounts and SDRG acceptable to IDA by
November 30, 2000.
3. The Government wiU cooperate in the institutional strengthening and technical development program as
agreed in its TOR, and in accordance with the timetable and performance indicators of Annex 1.
4. SDRG and TRRC, in cooperation with IDA, will carry out a Mid-Term Review of project progress to
determine if there is a need for any revisions in project planning not later than June 30, 2002.
Other Covenants.
1. The Government will allocate sufficient counterpart funds to ensure satisfactory progress in project
implementation throughout the life of the project
2. The Govemment, during the project implementation period, will each year allocate resources to road
maintenance activities at the level that will be not less than the level of SDRG's budget for the year 1999,
adjusted each year by the same proportion as the increase or decrease in the Government's overall revenue
collections.
3. The Government will take steps to extend the existing Road Fund.
-24 -



4. The Government will submit legislation to the Parliament to establish a restructured Road Fund and road
user charges by the time of Project completion.
5. Not later than June 30 of each year, the Government will furnish IDA the annual road program for the
next year, including procurement and financing plans, and will review these plans with IDA before
implementing them.
6. The Government agrees to undertake only economically, environmentally and socially justified road
investments. Specifically, it will carry out a feasibility study for all road investment projects estimated to
cost one million dollars or more, and will proceed to implement a project only if it has a positive Net
Present Value based on a cost of capital of 12 % per annum.
7. The Government will submit to IDA a quarterly Project Progress Report, in a format satisfactory to
IDA, not later than 60 days after the end of the quarter outlining progress made in the implementation of
the project, as well as the problems encountered and how they are being addressed.
8. The Government will monitor Project implementation and achievement of its objectives using indicators
satisfactory to IDA. It will report to IDA within 60 days after each calendar year the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities, and will set out measures to ensure the efficient implementation of the
Project during the following year.
9. The Government will prepare, not later than 6 months after the Closing Date, a plan for the future
operation of the Project activities, and the Government's input into the Implementation Completion Report,
both of which will be reviewed with IDA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
El 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[]4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
-25 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
F] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Antti P. Talvitie                Ricado H                         ! Y
Team Leader                      sectbr Manager/Director          Country Manager/Director
-26-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GEORGIA: ROADS PROJECT
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce road infiastructure   Increased road fund financing Quarterly progress reports and Improved planning and
bottlenecks through increased for road improvements and   Implementation Completion  maintenance effectiveness will
focus on: (a) promoting   road maintenance as        Reports.                   lower infiastructure
state-level pohicy reforms and  committed by GOG in                             bottlenecks
improving delivery        Transport Policy letter.
effectiveness of road sector
spending, (b) improving                                                         Improved transport system
strategic planning and    Improvement in                                        will foster private sector
maintenance effectiveness;   administrative and fnancial                        development
and (c) facilitating private    framework.
sector involvement in road
engineering construction and
maintenance.
-27 -



~~~~~- - K Pr.i,c-,  --
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
1. Reduce road transport costs 1.1 Road user costs reduced by 1.1 Road roughness and other 1.1 Reduced transport costs
in the main transport      15 percent.               condition surveys of       will help stimulate private
corridors.                                           completed sections.        sector development.
1.2 Pavement life extended.   1.2 Report.            1.2 Better standards and
specifications will reduce road
management costs.
2. Provide steady and adequate 2.1 Increases in road  2.1 Quarterly progress reports 2.1 Increased road financing
road maintenance funding    financing equal to general    and supervision missions.    will reduce road user costs
based on charges related to   revenue increases.     Road Fund audits.
road use and access.      2.1 Revised and efficient road 2.2 Quarterly progress reports 2.2 Road users will accept
user charges.             and supervision missions.    charges that reflect road use
2.3 Increased representation of 2.3 Quarterly progress reports 2.3 More transparent Road
stakeholders in road      and supervision missions.    Fund operations will improve
management.                Road Fund Board composition resource use.
and Road Fund audits.
3. Strengthen Georgia's road  3.1 Improved resource  3.1 Reports and supervision   3.1 PMS and the road data
management and private    allocation in the road sector.  missions.             bank will improve road
construction industry.                                                          maintenance planning.
3.2 Road sector performance  3.2 Reports and supervision   3.2 Performance indicators
indicators adopted as a   missions.                  will improve SDRG's
management tool.                                     incentive to perform well.
3.3 Several private sector  3.3 Supervision mnissions and  3.5 Use of private contractors
contractors have the capacity  reports.              will improve quality and
to participate in all SDRG                           reduce costs
civil works in a competitive
environment.
- 28 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Portions of the road  1I.1 Road upgrading and   Quarterly progress reports and Upgraded roads will reduce
network upgraded, using   bridges completed according  supervision mission.   total road transport costs.
competitive procurement, and to an agreed schedule (km).
improved technical standards. 1.2 All (prqject) road works
are implemented by private
contractors.
1.3 Technical standards and
specifications updated and
revised.
2.1- 2.3 Revised functional   2.1 New functional    Quarterly progress reports and Improved budget planning,
classification, road data bank  classification proposed.  supervision mission.  road management systems,
and PMS are established.  2.2 Road data bank is     Topic-specific technical  and monitoring of
established, functioning, and  reports.             performance lead to better
key data collected.                                 road maintenance and more
2.3 PMS system is installed,                        effective road management
functioning and used for road
program preparation.
2.4 Traffic safety program is  2.4 Traffic safety audit is                    There is a high level
developed.                completed and traffic safety                        government commitmnent for
workshop held.                                     improving traffic safety.
2.5-2.6 Improved institutional 2.5 Three-year rolling road
road management framework program covering all road
and technical capacity at  works is routinely prepared
SDRG.                     2.6 Sector performance
indicators are defined to track
road program and SDRG
performance
2.7-2.9 Restructured Road    2.7 New Road fund law passed                     Government agrees and
Fund is established and road  2.8 Accounting and fnancial                     Parliament approves an
user charges defined.     reporting systems installed                        improved Road Fund.
and Road Fund staff trained to
new financial processes.                           Improved administration and
2.9 Financial audits of the                         revenue collection will lead to
Road Funid performed                               improved road maintenance.
-29 -



dressings and improvement of
470 km of drainage.
1.2 Rehabilitation of about    US$34.73 million
162 kms of the core network
and reconstruction of two
bridges.
2. Strengthening institutional US$ 3.0 million      Quarterly progress reports,   2.1 SDRG will retain or
capacity of SDRG to manage                          supervision mission reports,  employ staff trained to operate
road network.                                       project evaluation.        the new systems.
2.1 Consultant services for                                                    2.2 IDA's bidding procedures
preparation of engineering                                                     will result in an adequate level
designs, bidding documents.                                                    of competition.
2.2 Consultant services for                                                    2.3 Funding will be provided
supervision of civil works                                                     under the Road Fund to ensure
contracts.                                                                    long term sustainability of
2.3 Consultant services for                                                    road maintenance.
technical assistance to
modernize road management
and traffic safety.
2.4 Consultant services to
restructure the Road Fund.
2.5 Goods and equipment for
road management and
vehicles.
3. Incremental operating cost US$ 0.50 million      Quarterly progress reports,   3. TRRC and SDRG share the
for TRRC (project                                   supervision mission reports,  project implementation
implementing unit).                                 audit reports.             management. TRRC will train
and support SDRG to carry
out its part.
-30-



Annex 2: Project Description
GEORGIA: ROADS PROJECT
1.    The proposed project is a follow up operation to the Transport Rehabilitation Project that was
completed in 1999. This project will address the most important priorities of the road subsector, and in so
doing, will reinforce the Bank's ongoing assistance in supporting Georgia' s economic recovery and
restructuring. Specifically, the project will (a) support rehabilitation and maintenance of the main road
network to reduce the backlog of deferred maintenance and to prevent further deterioration of Georgia's
road assets; (b) provide a stable road maintenance financing from local resources by restructuring the Road
Fund; and (c) strengthen and improve road management and technical capacity at SDRG.
2.    The proposed US$40.0 million IDA Credit will finance works, goods and services for three
components. First, IDA will support maintenance on the paved road network, and rehabilitation and
reconstruction of critical sections and structures of the main road network to improve its condition to a
level that facilitates sustainable maintenance. The IDA credit will also support strengthening the
management and technical capacity at the SDRG. Finally, the credit will provide incremental operating
costs of the project implementation unit TRRC. Designs prepared by local consultants are under review by
an international consultant to assure that they are of acceptable international standards. Consequently, the
lengths of road works specified below could change somewhat based on the results of that review.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$51.50 million
This component includes three categories of improvements of the main road network (see IBRD Map No.
30786):
Periodic maintenance and repair (US $ 16.77 million), including: 470 km of drainage upgrading, and 281
kam of surface treatment consisting of a leveling layer followed by either a single or a double surface
treatment on selected sections of the main road network. Cost estimates include design and supervision
(US$0.70 million) and civil works, including contingencies and taxes (US$16.07 million).
Rehabilitation (US$29.38 million) of selected road sections totaling about 162 km, including: 65 km on
roads S-1 and S-4, Poti-Tbilisi-Tsiteli Khidi, to include pothole repair, a leveling layer, an overly of either
5 or 6 cm, widening to 9 meters, strengthening or construction of shoulders of sand-gravel mix, and
associated road markings, road signs, and barriers where required for safety reasons.
60 km on roads S-3 and S-7, Tbilisi-Larsi and Mameuli-Sadakhlo, to include reconstruction of selected
sections where deterioration is extreme, and pothole repair, a leveling layer, one or two overlays of either 5
or 6 cm, widening to 9 meters, strengthening or construction of shoulders of sand-gravel mix, and
associated road markings, road signs, and barriers where required for safety reasons.
35 km on roads S-1, S-2, S-5, S-6, and S-8, Tbilisi-Samterdia, Samtredia-Poti-Batumi, Tbilisi-Lagodekhi,
Tbilisi-Mameuli, and Khashuri-Vale, to include pothole repair, leveling layer, an overly of either 5 or 6 cm,
widening to 9 meters, strengthening or construction of shoulders of sand-gravel mix, and associated road
markings, road signs, and barriers where required for safety reasons.
Cost estimates include design and supervision (US$1.22 million) and civil works, including contingencies
and taxes (US$28.16million).
-31 -



Reconstruction of two bridges (US$5.35 mnillion), one over the River Tsivi and the other over the
Sondiskhevi River.
Cost estimates include design and supervision (US$0.20 million) and civil works, including contingencies
and taxes (US$5.15 million).
Project Component 2 - US$3.00 million
Strengthening the Capacity of SDRG. The technical support program includes renewing the road
management framework by revising the functional classification of roads; capacity building for planning
and monitoring performance road programs and the SDRG, and underpinning them with adequate data
resources and management systems; modernization of technical standards and specifications; training in the
supervision of civil works; development of a program to improve traffic safety (including its institutional
framework); and strengthening in contracting, procurement, and financial management (US$1.60 million).
TRRC will support SDRG to improve its procurement, project accounting and financial management
capabilities. This component also includes training of SDRG's staff for all of these activities, funds for
financial audits of the project accounts (US$0.21million), renovation of SDRG's offices (US$0.24 million),
and equipment needed by SDRG for carrying out its responsibilities, including traffic counters, a
deflectometer, mobile weighing scales, testing equipment, office equipment and supplies, and vehicles
(US$0.95 million).
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.50 million
Incremental operating costs. This will fund the activities of TRRC, including staff salaries and office
expenses needed for project implementation. IDA will finance 80 percent of these costs over the life of the
project.
- 32 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GEORGIA ROADS PROJECT
-              -                                                              w
Pr'c CMtB'on    n                  U  $ntl,       J  iWo    VS $tiiffi1
Periodic Maintenance of the main roads                    4.17         9.80         13.97
Rehabilitation of sections of the main roads              7.34         17.14        24.48
Reconstruction of two bridges                             1.34          3.13         4.47
Goods/Equipment                                           0.00          0.82         0.82
Consultant Services                                       1.80          2.00         3.80
Incremental Operating Costs                               0.50          0.00         0.50
Office Equipment                                          0.05          0.15         0.20
Total Baseline Cost                                      15.20         33.04        48.24
Physical Contingencies                                   1.29         3.02          4.31
Price Contingencies                                      0.73          1.72         2.45
Total Project Costs             17.22        37.78         55.00
Total Financing Required              17.22        37.78        55.00
Goods                                                       0.00          0.95         0.95
Works                                                      14.87         34.73         49.60
Services                                                    1.85          2.10          3.95
Incremental Operating Costs                                 0.50          0.00         0.50
Total Project Costs    17.22         37.78         55.00
Total Financing Required     17.22         37.78        55.00
- 33 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
GEORGIA: ROADS PROJECT
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Benefits:                   148.0
Costs:                       45.7
Net Benefits:               102.3
IRR:                         50%
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
A cost-benefit analysis was carried out for all road sections under consideration to identify a priority works
program.  The road investment component includes three activities: (i) periodic maintenance; (ii)
rehabilitation; and (iii) reconstruction of bridges. A set of maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction
strategies were compared using the Highway Design Model (HDM). The priority program was selected
based on the following criteria: Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV). The latter
was based on a 12% discount rate and a simulation period of 20 years. Costs of institution building
activities, such as technical assistance, design, supervision, monitoring and physical contingencies were
incorporated into the investment costs to perform the economic evaluation. Additional benefits were
separately calculated for bridge reconstruction taking into account each structure-related specific economic
benefits.
The ERR and the NPV of the priority works are estimated to be 50% and USS101.3 million respectively.
ERRs range from  64%  for periodic maintenance, 40%  for rehabilitation works, and 65 %  for
reconstruction of bridges. These indicators show clearly that the proposed investments are highly
profitable.
Type of works               ERR (%)              NPV, IIS$ million
Periodic Maintenance         64                  10.4
Rehabilitation               40                  26.9
Reconstruction               65                  65
Total Priority Works        50                   102.3
Main Assumptions:
Main assumptions, data and economic analysis are briefly described in the following.
Routine and Periodic repairs include routine maintenance, pothole repairs, paintings, 4-5 cm overlays of
asphalt, and single or double surface treatments on no more than lOOm per kmn. Routine and periodic
- 34 -



repairs will cover 750 km selected from the entire international network. The average International
Roughness Index (IRI) on this network was estimated at 6.5, with an average daily traffic of 4,000 vehicles
per day in 1998. Annual traffic on this network is projected to rise at an annual rate of about 8.8% through
2000 and 5.5% thereafter. Traffic forecast is based on 1997-observed resumption of road traffic triggered
by the recent economic recovery and on projected GDP growth for 1999-2005.
Rehabilitation includes works on eight sections of the intemational network having a total length of 162
km. These sections, carrying large daily traffic, are gravely deteriorated as they have not been maintained
for the last five years. Reconstruction of the base layer and the pavement is required to bring them to a
maintainable level. Results of the economic evaluation for each section are detailed below.
Project                             Length     Costs,          IRR        NPV,
km         US$ million                US$ million
Ponichala-Tsiteli Khidi             65         8.4             700/o      19.4
Mtskheta-Khazbegi-Larsi             37         7.1             20         2.0
Senaki-Zugdidi                      10         1.2             29%        0.7
Choloki-Batumi                      5          0.7             65%        1.5
Tbilisi-Bakhurtsikhe                5          0.7             38%        0.6
Tbilisi-Bolnisi                     5          0.6             53%        1.0
Khashuri-Borjomi                    10         0.6             25%        0.6
Mamueli-Sadakhlo                    25         6.9             23%        1.0
Total rehabilitation works         162         26.2            40%        26.9
Reconstruction. Economic analysis was carried out for 4 bridges of various sizes and a road overpass
over a railway track. Due to funding constraints, however, only two bridges, over the Tsivi River and the
Sondiskhevi River, were selected for the project.
Bridge across the Tsivi River. Two piles of the current bridge were destroyed during the civil war, and
were temporarily replaced by a single pile. Therefore, the carrying capacity of the bridge has been
considerably reduced. If the new bridge is not constructed, the heavy traffic will have to be diverted to the
southern local road Poti - Grigoletti - Samtredia, which is 10 km longer and is not designed for
international standards (about 40 km/h)
Bridge across the Sondiskhevi River. Due to inadequate foundations and insufficient bridge span for water
flow at peak periods, the existing bridge abutment has moved and eventually the existing bridge will
collapse unless it is replaced. If it is not, the road will be cut and therefore Dusheti region will be isolated
from Tbilisi, and the traffic to Russia will be diverted to the western itinerary in the summer (an additional
100 hn) and will not be able to pass during the winter. The new bridge will be moved slightly upstream,
made longer and built with foundations strong enough to bear the loads and withstand the water pressure
during the floods.
-35 -



Project                                     Costs         IRR       NPV
aUSS min)                 12%
Bridge over TSIVI nver                      1.9          66%       28.7
Bridge across SONDISKHEVI river             2.6          65%       36.3
Total reconstrnction                         4.5          65%       65.0
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
A sensitivity analysis was performed to determine how much the economic return would be affected by a
substantial variation of the main factors in a road investment program which are: traffic and investment
cost. The alternatives considered are: (a) increase in maintenance costs by 20%/o resulting from further
deterioration of the road condition; and (b) 30 % slower traffic growth than predicted to reflect possible
slower economic recovery and strong dependence of the Georgian economy on the economic recovery of the
region. The results indicate that the economic return is still satisfactory in both cases of higher investment
cost and less traffic growth: (i) a reduction of about 13% in the ERR would result from investment cost
20% higher than estimated; and (ii) a 30% decrease in the traffic growth rate would have a proportionally
higher impact on the ERR, which would decrease by about 22%. In both cases, the level of ERR would
remain high enough (39%/o to 30%) to justify the investments.
Type of works         Indicators           Base case       Investment          Traffic
(%)            cost +20%           300/c
Periodic              ERR (%)              64              38                  25
maintenance           NPV (US$ m.)         10.4            7.6                 3.1
Rehabilitation        ERR (%)              46              37                  29
(seven sections only)    NPV (US$ m.)      25.9            21.8                 12.1
Reconstruction*       ERR (%)              48              44                  36
NPV (US$ m.)         70             67.8                43.5
Total project         ERR(%)               52              39                  30
NPV (US$ m.)         112.6           97.3                58.7
* Sensitivity analysis was carried out for four bridges and an overpass considered for inclusion in the
project.
Shadow Pricing: Shadow pricing was not considered necessary since the alternative opportunities
for labor in the existing economic environment are not plentiful. Therefore, the current costs do
not need to be adjusted to reflect alternative opportunity costs. Further, the exchange rate is
freely floating and does not appear to be over or under valued; therefore the value of costs and
benefits used in the analysis does not need to be adjusted.
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
-36 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GEORGIA: ROADS PROJECT
Years Ending December 31
(US$ Million)
I                 IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
|  Year  I       Year 2   |  Year 3        Year 4   |  Year 5
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           4.0          15.1         15.1         15.1          5.2
Recurrent Costs            0.1           0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1
Total Project Costs            4.1          15.2         15.2          15.2          5.3
Total Project Financing        4.1          15.2         15.2          15.2          5.3
Financing  Required        _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _
IBRD/LDA                   3.0          11.0         11.0         11.0          4.0
Goverment                  1.1          4.2          4.2           4.2           1.3
Co-Financiers         _            l            T            _
O ther_                 _   _  _    _ _  _   _    _ _  _  _    _ _  _  _     _ _   _  _
Total Project Financing        4.1          15.2         15.2          15.2          5.3
Main assumptions
- Project costs include taxes including VAT
-37 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
GEORGIA: ROADS PROJECT
Procurement
1.    The proposed Roads Project's component elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods
are summarized in Table A of this annex. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated
schedule of the major procurement actions is presented in Table C of this annex. All other procurement
information, including capability of the implementing agency, dates for publication of GPN and the Bank's
review process is presented in Table B of this annex.
2.    The project will be financed from the proceeds of the proposed US$40 million Credit from IDA
and the local expenditure contributions from the Government. The total cost of the project would be $55.0
million. Procurement activities under the project will fall under one of the following areas: (i) civil works,
(ii) goods, and (iii) consulting services. The procurement of goods and works of the IDA-financed
components would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised January 1996, August 1996, September 1997 and January
1999). For consultants' services the procurement would follow the Bank's Guidelines for "Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," (January 1997, and January 1999).
3.    A Country Procurement Strategy Paper (CPSP) was prepared by Hifab International of Sweden in
October 1995 (copy available in RPA's office). The procurement administration capabilities of the TRRC
and the SDRG have been assessed.
4.    The TRRC staff responsible for disbursement and provision of support to SDRG for procurement
will include the TRRC Director, a Procurement Specialist trained in the lLO's Advanced Level Equipment
Procurement course in Turin and with experience in Bank-financed procurement, and a Disbursement
Specialist. The TRRC has implemented the IDA financed Transport Project (Cr.28090) and is currently
implementing the Restructuring of the Ministry of Transport Project (Cr.31290). The Bank visited Georgia
to assess the adequacy of the TRRC to handle procurement, and to advise on the training needs to equip the
TRRC procurement staff with the necessary skills in drafting bidding documents, in evaluating bids and in
administering contracts in a timely manner. A procurement risk assessment was carried out, and the
results are described on pages 49-50. A procurement action plan was agreed, which includes increasing the
procurement capacity of the TRRC and the SDRG.
5.    The first General Procurement Notice was published in the Development Business on April 16,
2000. The total value of IDA financed contracts is estimated at $55.0 million. This will be procured as
follows:
6.    Civil Works: The proposed project includes $49.62 million for civil works consisting of periodic
maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction works. The Works contracts estimated to cost $600,000 and
above would be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Works contracts,
estimated to cost less than $600,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $13.62 will be procured
under NCB procedures.
7.    Goods: The proposed project includes $0.95 million for procurement of goods and equipment for
the State Department of Roads (SDRG). Goods contracts estimated to cost $100,000 or more will be
procured under International Competitive bidding procedures. International Shopping (IS) will be used for
equipment and materials contracts estimated to cost more than $50,000 but less than $100,000 and not
exceeding $0.25 million in aggregate. Miscellaneous items that cannot be grouped in packages of $50,000
or more, up to an aggregate amount of $0.16 million would be procured through National Shopping (NS).
- 38 -



The IS will be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two eligible
source countries in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. For NS, the quotes will be from at least three
local suppliers.
8.    Consulting Services: Consultants for technical assistance and training, valued at $3.40 million,
will be selected competitively using QCBS. Small contracts valued at less than $0.10 million for Technical
Design Studies and Support of SDRG and Work Supervision, up to an aggregate amount of $0.20 million,
will be awarded to firms based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) procedures. Individual Consultants for
Technical Design Studies and Support of SDRG and Work Supervision, up to an aggregate amount of
$0.10 million, will be selected based on qualifications (section V of the guidelines). Contracts for project
audits, included as part of the incremental operational costs, up to an amount of $0.20 million, will be
procured under Least-Cost Selection (LCS).
9.     Prior and Post review of contracts: All IDA financed goods and works contracts under 1CB, the
first two NCB contracts for the Road Maintenance and Road Rehabilitation sub-components, and the first
IS contract will be subject to prior review procedures in accordance with the Guidelines of the IDA/Bank.
All other goods and works contracts will be subject to post review. The ratio of post review for NCB
contracts will be not less than one in five contracts. For consultant contracting, the prior review thresholds
will be above $100,000 for firms and above $50,000 for individuals.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                          36.00         13.62         0.00           0.00         49.62
(25.81)       (8.91)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (34.72)
2. Goods                          0.55          0.00          0.40           0.00          0.95
(0.55)        (0.00)        (0.40)        (0.00)        (0.95)
3. Services                       0.00           0.00          3.73          0.00          3.73
(0.00)        (0.00)        (3.73)        (0.00)        (3.73)
4. Increm. Operating Costs        0.00           0.00          0.70          0.00          0.70
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.60)        (0.00)        (0.60)
Total                          36.55         13.62          4.83          0.00          55.00
(26.36)        (8.91)        (4.73)        (0.00)       (40.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
aIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through intemational and national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance
services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project
-39-



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
AFirs          3.43      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.20      0.00      0.00      3.63
(3 .43)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.20)    (-)    (0.00)    (3 .63)
BIndviduals     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.10      OM0        0.00      0.10
._____________   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.10)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.10)
Total   3.43     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.30      0.00      0.00      3.73
_ _  (3.43)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.73)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
-40 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                     >600,000                 ICB            >600,000/$36.00 million
<600,000                 NCB             <600,000/first two
contracts of each
component (Periodic
Maintenance and
Rehabilitation): $0.24
million
2. Goods                     >100,000                 ICB             >100,000/$0.55 million
<100,000                 IS             <100,000/first contract:
$0.10 million
<50,000                  NS                   None
3. Services                   Firms                QCBS/LCS              >100,000/$3.63
CQ                   All/$0.20
l____ _  Individuals          Section V            >50,000/$0.50
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: About $40 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
-41 -



Table B1
Section 1: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirements
Brief Statement
Primary responsibility for administrating procurement will rest with the Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center
(TRRC). Procurement Capacity Assessment was carried out in Georgia according to the requirements of the World Bank
memorandum of August 11, 1998. The assessment examined the overall procurement enviromnent in Georgia and the
procurement capacity of State Department of Roads of Georgia (SDRG), as the Implementing Agency for the project, and the
performance of the Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center (TRRC), as the Project Implementation Unit For the
reasons of inexperience and the immature but evolving competitive procurement environment in Georgia, the overall
procurement risk of the Georgia Roads project has been rated as "High". That does not reflect the past performance of
TRRC as the project implementation unit.
By September 2000, a procurement expert will be hired to provide assistance to strengthen the PIU's capacity and to advise
in procurement and contract administration of civil works contracts under Bank Guidelines.
Will the bidding documentsfor the procurement actionsfor thefirst year ready by negotiations:
No. ECA Regional Documents will be used for NCB works.
Section: 2 Training Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated Date of Project Launch Workshop: August 2000
Issues to be addressed:
(i) hire and sign contract not later than September, 2000, with an expert consultant or consulting firm to work at least for the
first 6 months of the project to provide advise and to train the TRRC staff and the SDRG in works contract management; (ii)
training of the TRRC and SDRG procurement specialists in the next available course by ILO, Turin, Italy or similar training
center, training to be completed by September, 2000.
Date of publication of General Procurement Notice: April 16, 2000
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business: Yes
Domestic Preference for Goods: Yes
Domestic Preferencefor Works, if applicable: No
Retroactive Financing: No
Advance Procurement: No
Section 3: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staffpart of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Name: Els Hinderdael assisted by Jesus Renzoli, Division: ECSIN, Extension: 85922
Brief description of the role expected of the Field Office in Procurement: The Country Office will provide liaison between
the HQ and the PIU and will follow up on procurement issues.
-42 -



Table B2: Procurement Plan
Page 1-a
LWV                    PoldP    Nof d    pdswih
Descrlil                           lm   Bd D  PmLc     PAMIhR      Pk     conrmnrs -Qua
C1999: -:W -.:
CONSLTING SBMERKS                                     _                    _
Tedit*a Desiwi shxdes (lst Y Rehab.) (Seceded as pat o te PPF)  CS1RF    SS                           20
1OTAr YEAR 1999                                                                  20
TQD~~WORKS~                                 _-                     _    _
PERODaC MA WACE P  ETHSYEA4                                                                       ;
B. REHABIfATION                                                                          _
POUThUBKSITSrrELM KH_
SsulldTBElSl-TSK KHDI                                    3    RHA.1   ICB1      Pr       Lot 1     530        NA
KutlSkno_ 9    RHt1.1  IC81                                                     Pii      Ld 2      1175       NA
Sinn -Zesftod                                            10    RHA1.1  ICB       Pror    Lot 3      1215
ZeStPcxI-D                                               4.5   RH12   ICB1       Pror    Lot 1      745
Zeetajyji4-Rjo                                           4.5   RH12   ICB1       Pna     Lot 2      750
RJCn d                                                   6    RH12   ICB1        Plia    Lot 3      880
GornTilsi                                                4.5   RH1.3  ICB1       Pior    Lot 1      805       NA
Gorr-Tbili                                               4.5   RH1.3  ICB1       Prio    Lot 2      805       NA
Porica-TsiteI Khki                                       6    RH1.3  ICB1        Pir    Lot 3       721       NA
SENAJ(I - LESBJDZE (S-I)
Senald - ZugdK|  3  |RH12    NCB                                                 Prior     1        475        NA
Khashqiwai                                               3    RH 1.3   NCB      Prior     1        655        NA
RECONSTRUCTM                                                  _              _
TBUB1    ELM                                                    RC;l   ICB       Prio      I        222D       NA
BMkgsomwTSM*&W                                         862m ___
0. REPAR TO SDRG BULNG                                          SDRG I   NCB      Pot       1        240
GOODS_
Gedgk  Fleld Svey Lab                                            G6      NS       Post      1         50
Velides b SDRG (4-12)                                             G7     ICB      Prior     1        155
CONSLLTh  SER_                                                __
Te 7cal Des* stu  (2rd   3rd Y Rehab.)                           CS1    acs       Prior     1        900
Tical Deui s|Tdies                                              CSl-I    CO       Pid    _            100
BEVeriate PUrenwt SpeW                                 I      ICdSPR              TCR                 50
Sort  _&Woks          _,   o        t _ _e            _,w CS2   CEBS              Prir      1        2504
Supat SDRG & WVle S                                             CS3-1   CQ        Pdi                100
SoRG& Urs er                                                    CS3-2                                  o TOR  50
INCREENTALOPERATNG OOSTS (S aftmtv hsii                        _                                     500
FurKirl Audits PaI dfhe InceT*MlW OP(e.kCEt) COE               CS4CS5   LCS       Pr        20 2
TOTrAL YEAR 2000                                   ___   ___  ___               15825 43
- 43 -



t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ..    |ggi.. ...
--   -   - --- -   -- ----C---
A~lXSfT4WLS



Page 2-a
T            KBE  FMB _WE
POTrTsnu3                                              __
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f                    m DCt     13  Pr;n   Lft 1     396      Nl
R Tsili KKi PF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9   DC1-                   1nt 51E                     NL.
S&4P                                                          _                               . _
liS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 7ts  1   460!;
- -TR d                                      11   SDt3 N3 P..              1       50-      NX
Rkd -gmIN qA   km1   &rI  r                                                            6s   Cf5NA
IT-TURK 8Z~AK2 13_                                                             ____
r    - Pran                                   is  Iq lAJ.I.t                                K
li-B3ui                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~7 SDt-7  KM  Pin  1  3iO  N
__ K_      _ _d  ___T__ __h Bade   __  _    _      2L      -Pa         B       1       58D   N
Serl<l Q)                           ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 RH1- __EZ_Pd  Itl 
Rpiud - 7i aff                                    7  jRH29         F  Pam      1       915 
MaSftdBojMilz                        7   RH23 ,  n       Pir    1         95
MSEIMKLARE -I=AR
Njdtf - Fbsljr (2)                               5.5  RH24  ICB      Pricr   LInt I1    845    Nt
Aftiali - Pa;SBIM t2)                           5-5  RFV 4           Pfir    I tt 2   835s
Pnmri-Liplam                                    6   RHQA            Pfiar -I3        RX I
1&ML-_Q2QjM  Brd                                  10   RH 34    C      Pfir  _lQWJ:f   3845      Ne
~~iE                              -    87                                                  _
GOODS
Dd&-dfW/v*e. sd.a Meas- Mtl                              G2    l3      Pdfr    1        1.72
Casmnd*e                                                 C3    IS      P        1       67
T,mII Co ae Ml                                     -            IS     P        1       62
bktieW 4 W i &                      (sc            -I.KGS       CB .   B        1       218
C-- gg CUPts&  [hm                                   m      kg     Pd       I1      117
c   -                                                                      1 -S
TellFax_l I2 G11 IS Ng                                                 Pet      1       25
CONSTXNGSEES                        _                        _N
WOTALYEAR2DDI                   _       ____9__
-45 -



Page 2-b
2//1        220/         01  2/28/01          501    501   5/15Y1 YD1             5/30/01       6/15/01      10/3001
2VY          2101            2/2801         4/15/01   S/01   5/ S11501            5//1          6/15/01      10/30/01
2/3/01      220/1            228/01         41501    5/5/01   5/1501              530I01        6/1501       10/30/01
2/3/01      220/01           228/01         4/1501   5/01    515/01               5/30/01       61/01        10o/1
3M31        320/1            3/28/01        5/ 15 /0SMo16/50 1 6/15               6/01          7/15/01       10/30/01
1/3/01      1/20/01          1/30/01        3/15/01   4/5/01   41501    _        4/30/01        5115/01       9/30l/0
1/3/01      1/20/01          1/30/01        3/1501   4/501   41 sioi             4/30/01        5/1501        9/1/01
Y315/01       4/1/01        7/31/01
23/01         20/1           2/28/O1        4/151    5/5/01    515/01             5/30/01       6/15/01      10o/1
1/20/01      1/31/01          215/01         3/15/01   3/20/0   3/31/01  _ _      4/15/01       4/30/01       9/30/01
1/20/01      1/31/01          2/5/01         3/15/01   3/20/1 I3/31/01  ___       4/15/01       .4/30/01      10/30/01
1/20/01      1/31/01          2/5/01         3/15/01   3/20/01   3/31101  _       4/15101       4/30/01       9/i30/1
1/20/01      1/31/01          2/5/01         315/01   3/20/01   3/31/01           4115/01       4/30/01       9/30/
1R001        131/01           201            3/15/01   3/20/01   3/31/01          4/1501        4/30/01       9/30/01
1/20/01      1/31/01         2V01            3/15/01   32/1   3/31/01             4/15/01       4/30/01       9/30i01
1/20/01      1/31/011         2/01           3/15/01   3/20/01   3/31/01    -     4/1501        4/30/01       9/30/01
10/20/01     11/10/01         11/20/01       1/20/    2/15/02     82               a325/02       3/30/02       8/30/3
9/30/01      10130/01        10/30/01       12/15/    1/15/02   2/15/02           3/15/2         4/1/02        7/31/02
11/3/00      11/28/00         12(7/00        l1/o101    /10/01   3/31/01          430/01        530/01        10/31/01
11/3/00      11/28/00         12/7/00        1/10/01   3/10/01   3/31/01    =     4/30/01       5/30/01       10/31/01
NA           NA             11/8/00        12171/00    NA      NA    _          4/16/01         /1/01      10/31/0o
10/8/00     10/30/00         12/10/00        2/25/00   NA        NA               4/17/01        52/01         8/101
9/20/0       10/20/00        10/30/00       11/30100  12/31/00  1/15/01        1  1/31/01        2/15/01      4/30/1
NA           NA             1/15/01        2/1501     NA       NA       =       3/15/01        3/30/01       6/30/01
NA           NA             1/15/01        2/1501     NA       NA               3/15/01        3/30/01       6/30/01
NA           NA             1/15/01        2/1501     NA       NA    __         3/15/01        3/30/01       6/30/01
-46-



Pge
TBEPROCURFCRlRmm
~R~BT~5A                                           _                  _
TRLL~MAR~PERKUf                                        __A              ____A_E
TWS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ia KHD 1 1 D                    --tkx         LotIr 1  715    NLA
KKH9R1RK        O RILT-TUTrKRvdm                      on  l-_              _ _ 1__ 1 
Panwt Tt                                                             _
S-aid SaMb lb (2)                   11                 1 (P     1 _hd                 I                  NA
mm KL~IM.  Lf- k1                                                                                        _
Z i- Rikdfi                                        in M0921            --- RM;     1       46&D      NA
Riknf - Th  i1 2  -,DA                                                 Q      z-      1   5              N
dib - RU Q4                                           10 06                           1        4         NA
AtBb - Tsih KhFiS Q                                    f6  I n   7   bST-    Prvt     I        315      NsA
iuGAEU                                                                     _ _
Iw&wb  (4                                              8    019    -M         et      1        375       NA
Rkiab, - 17g        (2                                 a            N        R         1                 N
MT~OTA-I4A RB lABlARS    C                        ___
FaoGi6P- (E)                                                                 _        1        W5        NA
Mba - Kdi                                                                         I1I nt       am        NA
Mb af - Kojhi Lad 73                                      I RFM2   ItO        r Pdn     [s2    amt
TOTAL POR1~~~~~~~~~ YEAR  ~ ~ ~ 5    443    -lr ______      I ___      in       N
SBOARRAllUAA _DS
Tbiis:i - R;Jth   m                                   5    RH 3-3  iCB      pc;t    Lot 2     736      NsA
TRU&AR _LV   
llSniq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p                                        7fi       NA  7
MANUkSDKLAREINBolder:                            in F3-'A IR           Pro    4r 1          5      NA
MLOHYTOT AL                            -      -2                               13890
TO BE PROCUFM FOR THE YEAR 23           4
A. PERlOM MANTENA=
LIEKEL404EGWRS                                        70   D3        C        r      Int Is  Aa   4   NA
TRI FI&ARNt A   Sm k-M                                 n   Dn        r:      Prir    Iv        xht       NA
]BLM-PAia RTS>F4 LAGM                                 50 Dm.1    -IEL    Pdrr        I ot1     2sD       NA
Pavrna*Treaiaf=
TBLISSlsKM ard HSMEOLT.-TtJTK Bo _
Pdfi - -"W 0)                                         In   DMl       1 C     Pfi      1        480       NA
TbMa - Ryass (3)                                       6    CM?   K          Prxt     1        306       NA
MbAL%WW a _                                            11  .t33      _1                         W        NA
Sam"amid )                                             In   SD 34   Nz       Pt;t      1       .5XI      NSA
8ad3,m n-"tRbdkN k  (3)                                A SD  3 5,      NtS             1       410       NA
RPo rbi  - Lahoak3                                     a  ;nlA   N19         PV.t      1       4=.S      NA
MASKETA- HS -    LAR9S
_ l*VbOlLaJi                                           6    qn17   NR        Pns       1        310       NA
Kr"; - Klhi Ci                                         8   _SD      NC 8-a             1       410       N
Tbiii - Mm   'C - G4 lgjl                             12    n.l .   Nr-      P.s       I       Si    9 NA.
swnSd - Khot 0                                                                        1        31 5      NA
Khi-Zuid (3)                                        8    D31 NM$    PrEtL           I       410       NA
.           TOTALM FORl EZ YEAR 200385 
GRAND T01;4L                                                      =       55WO
-47 -



Page 3-b
1/3/02       1/20/02          1130/02        3/15/02   4/5/02   4/15/02             4/30/02       5115/02       9/30/02
1/3/02   -1/20/02             1130/02        3/15/02   4/5/02   4115/02 I4/30/02                  5/15/02       9/30/02
1/3/02       1/20/02          1/30/02        3/15/02   4/5/02   4/15/02             4/30102        5/15/02      9/30/02
1/3/02       1/20/02          1/30/02        3/15/02-  4/50  /5/02                  4/30/02        5/15/02       9/30/02
1/3/02       1/20/02          1/30/02        3/15/02   4/5/02   4/15/02             4/30/02        5/15/02      9/30/02
1/3/02       1/20/02          1/30/02        3/15/02   4/5/02   4/15/02             4/30/02       5/15/02       9/30/02
1/3/02       1/20/02          1/30/02        3/15/02   4/5/02   4/15/02             4/30/02        5/15/02       9/30/02
2/3/02       1/20/02         2/30/2002       4/15/02   5/5/02   5/15/02             5/30/02        6115/02      10/30/02
21/3/02      2/20/02         2/30/2002       4/15/02   5/5/02   5/15/02             5/30/02        6115/02       0/30/02
2/3/02       2/20/02         W/30/20         4/15/02   5/5/02   5/15/02             5/30/02        6/15/02      10/30/02
10/20/02     11/10/02          11/0/02        1/20/03   2/15/03   2/28103            3/25/02       3/30/02        9/30/02
10/20/02     11/10/02         11/20/02        1/20/03   2/15/03   2128/03            3/2502        3/30/02        9/30/02
10/20/02     11/10102         11/20/02        1/20/03   2/15/03   2/28/03            3/25/02       3/301/02       9/30/02
10/20/02     11/10/02          13/20/02       1/0/03   2/15/03   2/28/03             3/25/02       3/30/02        9/30/02
10/20/02     11/10/02          11/20/02       1/20/03   2/15/03   2/28/03            3/25/02       3/30/02        9/30/02
10/20/02     11/10/02          11/20/02       1/20/03   2/15/03   2/28/03 .          3/25/02       3/30/02        8/30/02
10/20/02     11/10/02          11/20/02       1/20/03   2/15/03   2/28/03            3/25/02       3/30/02        8/30102
1/3/03      11/20/03          1/30/03        3/15/03   4/5/03   4/15/03             4/30/03        5/15103       9/30/03
NA       _  _ _  _ __                         _ _                                                              _ _  _ _
NA                    _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _                                          _ _  _ _
1/3/03       1/20/03          1/30/03        3/15/03   4/15/03   4/15/03            4/30/03        5/15/03       9/30/03
1/3/03       1/20/03          1/30/03        3/15/03   4/5/03   4/15/03  ___        4/30/03        5/15/03       9/30/03
1/3/03       1/20/03          1/30/03        3/15/03   4/5/03   4/15/03  ___        4/30/03        5/15/03       9/30/03
1/3/03       1/20/03          1/30/03        3/15/03   4/5/03   4115/03  ____       4/30/03        5/15/03       9/30/03
1/3/03       1/20/03          1/30/03        3/15/03   4/5/03   4/15/03  ___        4/30/03        5/1 5/03      9/30/03
1/3/03       1/20/03          1/30/03        3/15/03   4/5/03   4115/03  ____       4/30/03        5/15/03      9/30/03
1/3/03       1/20/03          1/30/03        3/15/03   415/03   4/15/03             4/30/03        5/15/03       9/30/03
1/3/03      1120/03           1/30/03        3/15/03   4/5/03   4/15/03             4/30/03 5315/03              9/30/03
1/3/03       1/20/03          1/30/03        3/15/03   4/5/03   4/15/03             4/30/03        5/15/03       9/30/03
1/3/03       1/20/03          1/30/03        3/15/03   4/5/03   4/15/03             4/30/03        5/15/03       9/30/03
1/3/03       1/20/03          1/30/03        3/15103  14/503   4/15/03              4/30/03        5/15/03       9/30/03
Thehlsgenerally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-48 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
. _xpm~dltur C*goy             Amount In US$.i~imon                      e
Works                                    30.76                        70%
Goods                                     0.81             100% of foreign, 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory, and 80% of
local expenditures
Services                                  3.09                        100%
PIU Incremental Operating Costs           0.67                80% of local expenditures
Refunding of PPF                          0.67                        100%
Unallocated                               4.00
Total Project Costs                      40.00
Total                                    40.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for: (a) works contracts below
US$600,000; (b) goods contracts below US$100,000; and (c) services for contracts for (i) individuals
below US$50,000 and (ii) firms below US$100,000 equivalent. Disbursements for goods and services
exceeding the above limits would be made based on normal documentation. Supporting documents for
expenditures financed on basis of SOEs will be retained by TRRC for at least one year after disbursements
and made available for review by Bank representatives and extemal auditors.
Special account:
To facilitate payments from the Credit, the borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account in US dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA.
Administration of the Special Account, including preparation of withdrawal applications and replenishment
of the account will be the responsibility of the TRRC. The authorized allocation is US$4,000,000, to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account upon request from the
borrower. Initially, the authorized allocation will be limited to an amount equivalent to US$2,500,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments equals or exceeds the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000. Replenishment applications will
be submitted at least every month, and will include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate
supporting documents.
Traditional Disbursement Procedures. Applications for Withdrawal from the Credit will be used to
request: (i) direct payment to third party for amount due; (ii) replenishment to the Special Account; (iii)
reimbursement of payments already made by the Borrower for eligible expenditures; and (iv) application
for Special Commitment.
Annual financial statements of IDA-financed activities will be prepared in accordance with lntemational
Accounting Standards (IAS) and audited in accordance with Intemational Standards on Auditing (ISA).
- 49-



Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
A PPF in the amount of US$600,000 to finance consulting services, goods and incremental costs was
approved on November 17, 1997. Of this amount, US$230,876.64 has been disbursed as of April 1, 2000.
Financial Management
Objective: The primary objective of the assessment of the project financial management system is to
determine whether the project has in place adequate financial management systems for project
implementation and credit disbursements as required under OP/BP 10.02.
Implementation Arrangements: The State Department of Roads of Georgia (SDRG) wili have the
overall responsibility for project implementation, with the assistance of the Transport Reform and
Rehabilitation Center (TRRC). Main functions of the TRRC will be project accounting, administration of
the Special Account, disbursements, financial reporting, auditing arrangements, assisting SDRG in
procurement, and coordination with the World Bank and other donors. The TRRC has experience in
managing Bank projects having implemented two IDA-financed transport projects. it will work with both
the Ministry of Finance and SDRG for implementation of the Roads Project and has signed contracts with
both entities spelling out its responsibilities.
Evaluation of the project accounting and financial reporting system. The existing project accounting
and financial reporting system, running on MS DOS Fundware software, is based on double entry modified
accrual accounting. The system is adequate with respect to meeting basic accounting requirements. The
chart of accounts developed for the ongoing project captures project expenditures and financing and
provides sufficient information for financial reporting to both the Bank and the Borrower. However, in
order to produce Project Management Reports (PMRs), the report writing features of the existing
accounting software require upgrading and/or customization. As the existing software is no longer
supported by the vendor, TRRC has opted to procure an off-the-shelf commercial accounting software to
meet Bank financial reporting requirements. A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) is available to finance
procurement of a commercial accounting software and required hardware. A time-bound action plan for
stengthening financial management system has been discussed and agreed with the borrower. The action
plan will be implemented by December 31, 2000.
Project Accounting. The TRRC will be responsible for maintaining records and accounts for the project,
including those of the Special Account. It will also be responsible for consolidating accounting and
reporting for all project components, including the SDRG management capacity strengthening capacity
component. The Chart of Accounts will be revised to accommodate the proposed project to capture
sources and uses of funds, assets and liabilities in sufficient detail to satisfy reporting requirements. The
proposed system will, in addition to producing periodic and cumulative budgeted and actual expenditures,
link the financial data to measures of output of the project. A fixed asset register will be maintained and
updated regularly. The incumbent accountant is qualified, experienced and familiar with accounting and
auditing standards and procedures, and Bank guidelines.
Staffing. The TRRC is headed by a Director and has a staff composed of an accountant, a
procurement/contract manager, technical and training manager, officer manager and secretary/translator.
The project team (contracted consultants) is qualified and experienced and is familiar with Bank projects,
procedures and guidelines. The accountant is well qualified and is occasionally requested to provide
support and training to other PlUs implementing Bank projects in Georgia, Moldova and Lithuania.
-50 -



Internal Controls. Existing accounting and auditing laws and regulations, and operational procedures,
were reviewed to understand the overall environment for internal controls. Accounting and administrative
internal controls within TRRC were found to be adequate. Accounting and operating procedures are
documented in an Accounting Procedures and Operational Manual. An internal audit is conducted by the
State Control Chamber, and annual audits are carried out by private independent auditors. Coopers and
Lybrand auditors carried out the audit of the project financial statements for the years ended December 31,
1997 and 1998. The audit reports were found to be satisfactory and acceptable to IDA.
Financial Management Reporting. The format and frequency of submission of Quarterly Project
Financial Management Reports were agreed with the Borrower during pre-appraisal. Quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMRs) which link eligible expenditures with actual physical progress made by the
Project will be generated from the integrated computerized financial management and monitoring system.
These PMRs will include: (i) financial report summarizing sources of project financing and project
expenditures, disbursement, and forecast project expenditures; (ii) reconciliation of the Special Account;
(ii) project progress report comprising output monitoring and summary of project progress; and (iii)
procurement management report on status of procurement and contract management
Auditing arrangements. The TRRC will be responsible for engaging independent private auditors, whose
qualifications and experience as well as terms of reference are acceptable to IDA, by November 30, 2000
to ensure that the audit will be completed in a timely manner. Draft terms of reference for the audit of the
Project Management Reports (PMRs), project financial statements, the Special Account, and system of
internal controls were provided to the TRRC. Independent auditors will be selected by Negotiations. The
auditors should be selected in time to carry out their responsibilities, including review of the financial
management systems at the beginning of Project implementation, and to enable the timely issue of annual
audited financial statements. The audit will be carried out in accordance with acceptable international
standards, and Bank guidelines on auditing and financial reporting as outlined in The World Bank Financial
Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook and Project Financial Management Manual. The Borrower
will submit to the Bank audited financial statements and audit reports within six months following the fiscal
year-end.
Flow of Funds. Existing procedures on budgeting and budgetary controls and on channeling budgetary
funds to the Project will be followed. Counterpart funding will be made available from the Government
budget. The IDA Credit will be on-lent to SDR on the same terms as the Credit received by the Ministry of
Finance. The funds will be channeled in large part through the Special Account to be opened in a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA. To facilitate timely project implementation and financing from the
Credit, the Borrower proposed that a Special Account will be opened at the Deutche Bank where the
account for the ongoing transport project is maintained. A local Project Account will also be opened
specifically for the proposed project in the National Bank to facilitate payment of local project expenditures
financed from counterpart funds. The TRRC will manage the Special Account, including preparing Credit
withdrawal applications and supporting documentation, replenishment and reconciliation of the Account.
Credit Agreement categories will include: civil works, goods, consultant services and training, and
incremental costs. The pre-appraisal IDA team explained to TRRC and the SDRG the disbursements
methods and procedures, including PMR-based disbursements (LACI), project accounting, financial
reporting and internal and external auditing requirements.
Accounting and Auditing Standards. Accounting and auditing standards are based on international
standards. IDA - requires adherence to International Accounting Standards (IAS) in preparing and
maintaining accounts and International Accounting Standards (IAS) in conducting the audit.
- 51 -



Readiness for Implementation and Risks. A fully operational project implementation entity, the TRRC, is
in place and is experienced in implementing Bank projects. Steps are being taken to ensure that a
satisfactory financial management system is in place before the start of the project. An agreed action plan
by the Borrower to remedy any aspects that need strengthening will be implemented by December 31, 2000.
Based on recommendations of recent country financial assessment, disbursements will initially be made on
basis of traditional disbursement procedures.
-52 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GEORGIA: ROADS PROJECT
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (IdentiflcatIon)            03/15/97                    03/15/97
Appraisal mission departure                    02/01/2000                  02/28/2000
Negotlations                                   04/04/2000                  04/04/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/15/2000
Prepared by:
Kavita Sethi, Slobodan Mitric, Els Hinderdael, Njeri Muhoho, Hedi Larbi, Mirtha Pokorny, Robert Nooter,
Antti Talvitie, Jesus Renzoli
Preparation assistance:
Coral Bird
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Slobodan Mitric                  Principal Urban Transport Specialist
Kavita Sethi                     Economist
Els Hinderdael                   Senior Procurement Specialist
Njeri Muhoho                     Financial Analyst
Hedi Larbi                       Senior Transport Economist and Engineer
Antti Talvitie                   Senior Transport Specialist
Robert Nooter                    Consultant
Jesus Renzoli                    Consultant
Mirtha Pokomy                    Principal Transport Economist
- 53 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GEORGIA: ROADS PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Preparation mission Aide Memoire for July 17-26, 1999 mission
Pre-Appraisal mission Aide Memoire for October 19-29, 1999 mission
Procurement Capacity Assessment, 1999
Georgia Transport Sector Memorandum dated January 16, 1996
C. Other
Transport Sector Reform Project- Road Component: Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Works dated
August 1998, prepared by the Georgia Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center (Executive Summary
and 4 Volumes)
Economic and Financial Analysis- Preparation of the Transport Sector Reform Project dated January
1999, prepared by the Georgia Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center and assisted by BCEOM
Implementation of Privatization- Transport Rehabilitation Project: Final Report dated October 10, 1998,
prepared by Zdenek Tomas Havelka
Preparation of the Transport Reform Project, Concerning the Road Fund: Final Report dated November
15, 1998, prepared by Zdenek Tomas Havelka
Feasibility Study for Rehabilitation of Transit Roads in Georgia- Draft Final Feasibility Report dated
September 1997, prepared by Kocks Consult in association with TecNecon
Report of Meeting of Stakeholders and SDRG Management- Minutes of the discussion of the proposed
Transport Sector Reform Project held on October 28, 1999
Policy letter dated December 21, 1999, from the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economy, and the
Head of the State Department of Roads of Georgia to the World Bank setting forth the Government's
intentions regarding the establishment of a permanent and improved Road Fund.
Memo to file on project implementation arrangement and SDRG - TRRC relationship. May, 2000.
*Including electronic files
- 54 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GEORGIA: ROADS PROJECT
Difference between expecsed
and actual
Original Atount in US$ Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                               IBRD      IDA         Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm ReVd
P008415        1997 Georgia                     AGRKCULTURE DEVELOP.                     0.00      15.00        0.00       4.50      -2.15      0.00
P055573        1998 Georia                      CULTURAL HERtTAGE                        0 00       4.49        0.00        3.27      1.50      o ro
P064094        1999 Georgia                     ENERGYSECAC                              0.00      25.00        0.00       12.17     12.79      0.w
P008416        1999 Goargia                     ENTERPRtSE REHABIL                       0.00      15.00        0.00       12.38      2.49      0.00
P008414        1996 Georgi                      HEALTH                                   0.00      14.00        0.00        7.19      7.79      0.00
P050911        1999 Georgia                    INTEG. COASTAL MGT                        0.00       4.40        0.00        3.92      0.53      O.M
P0C7813        1999 Georgia                    JUDtCIAL REFORMA                          00.0o     13.40        0.00       12.57     -0.77      0.C0
P050910        1998 Geoorga                     MUNCIPAL DEV.                            0.00      20.90        0.00       16.70     10.81      0.00
P008417        1995 Georgia                     MLUNCIPAL INFRA. FtEH                    0.00      18.00        0.00        0.46      2.08      0.QD
P035784        1997 Georia                      POWER FtEHAB.                            0.00      5230         0.00        2.42      2.80      0.00
P052153        1999 Georgia                    SACIII                                    0.00      60.00        0.00       39.67     61.10      0.0
P039929        1998 Georgia                     SOCIAL INVEST. FUND                      0.00      20.00        0.00       13.52      6.48      0.00
P052154        1999 Georgia                     STRUCT. REF. SUPPORT                     0.00      16.50        0.00       15.29      0.98      0.00
P056514        1999 Georgia                     TRNSPT MN RESTRUCT.                      0.00       2.30        0.00        2.23      2.05      0.00
Total:       0.00     28129         0.00      14629    108.48       0.00
- !5 -



GEORGIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Commiitted                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997/00            Georgia GI&MW Co.              0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Georgia M-F Bank               0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00
1998               Ksani                          6.32    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
1998               TBC Bank                       3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               ThilComBank                    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.68    0.00      0.00    0.00
2000               Telasi                        30.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               ninotsminda                    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        42.32    3.16    6.00    0.00    1.88    2.98      0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1997              GGMW                               0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1998              TBC Bank                          0.00      0.00   1000.00      0.00
2000               TCW LA Fund                       0.00      0.00  70000.00     0.00
Total Pending Cominutment:        0.00     0.00  71000.00      0.00
- 56-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GEORGIA: ROADS PROJECT
Europe A    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central  middle-
Georgia      Adsa   Ineome       Development dismond
199S
Population, mid-year (millions)                         5.4       473        908                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                      930      2,190     1,710
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                        5.1      1,039     1,557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                          -0.1       0.1       1.1
Labor force(%)                                          -0.1       0.6       1.5      GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avalable, 1992-98)                                  capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below naionat poverty Oine)     11
Urban popuistion (% of total population)                 60        88         58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         73        69         58
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lIe births)                  17        23         38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                      Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populetlon)                    ..        ..        75
Illiteracy (% of populatlon age 15+)                     ,,         4         14
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populatlon)    88        100       103            Georg/a
Male                                                   89       101        105             Lower-middle-lncome group
Female                                                 88        99        100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997       1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                              ..       ..       5s2        5.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                          28.8        7.2       7.8
Exports of goods and services/GDP                      41.6       12.6      13.8                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                             29.7       -8.3      -6.4
Gross national savings/GDP                                         1.5       1.6
Current account balancelGDP                                       -7.2      -7 9      D    s
Interest payments/GDP                                              0.4       02       Domesticent
Total debt/GDP                                                    29.4      32.8      Savings                       nvestme
Total debt servicelexports                                         5,4      19.0
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debtiexports
Indebtedness
1977487  19i8-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   3.5    -15.4     11.0        2.9       4.1         -Geor/a
GNP per capita                        2.7    -14.3     1687        2.7       4.0          ------ Lower-middle-Income orouo
Exports of goods and services                          29.6        2.9       9.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1996t     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            sa
Agriculture                                            24.2       29.2      26.0      :01
Industry                                               38.0       15.8      15 .8
Manufacturing                                         28.0      15.9       1 5.6
Services                                               37.8       55.0      58.2       o 
Private consumption                                    86.9       97.2      97.5     -t50     52    4   06   96   97   De
General government consumption                         13.4        9.1       8.9               -GDI                GDP
Imports of goods and services                          40.4       26.1      28.0
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agricutture                                                        3.0      -8.0    so
Industry                                                          18.0       3.0    40
Manufacturing                                                    5.0        1.0
Services                                                           9.9       9.5    20
Private consumption                              .        ..      24.8      10.0 
General government consumption                                    19.3       7.2             93    996   97 9'
Gross domestic investment                                         41.4      10.3    -20
Imports of goods and services                                     52.9      14.7                  sExports          Imports
Gross national product                         3.5    -14.4       16.0       2.7
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
57 -



Georaia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987      1997      1998      Intlan
Domestic p "es
(% dngJ                                                                          20,ns
Consumer prices                                                 7.1       3.6    15.00
Implicit GDP deflator                        1.4      2.3       7.0       3.4    10,00
Govermnmnt finance                                                               L
(% of GDP, indLdes carmnt grants)
Currertrevenue                                 ..      ..       9.8      10.9              93   94   95   96   97
Cunrent budget balance                         ..      ..       0.0       0.0             -    GDP deflator   'CPI
Overall surpusdeficdt                          ..      ..      -4.6      43
TRADE
(LIS$ mWions)                               1977    1987       1997     199S      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..      ..       494      473     t2
Blackmetal                                   ..      ..       115       111
Tea                                          ..      ..        41       38       900
Manufackures                                 ..      ..       219       223
Total imports (cif)                           ..       ..    1,052    1,164       6
Food                                        ..       ..       288      332       E 
Fuel and energy                             ..       ..       191       186
Capial goods                                 ..      ..       198       213       o_
92  09  94f  9s  96  97  96
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      ..        90       93
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       ..       101       93               *Exprts       *impoats
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                       ..      ..        89      100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977    1987       1997     1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
(US$ -mfNons)
Exports of goods and services                 ..       ..       661      705      o
Imports of goods and services                  ..      ..    1,368      1,437         92
Resource balance                              ..       ..      -707     -732      a-
Netincone                                     ..      ..       134      115
Net current transfers                         ..   ..   196   211  .6   111111
Cunrent account balance                       ..       ..      -376      -406
Financing items (net)                         ..       ..       315      315
Changes in net reserves                       ..       ..        61       91    -12-
Meno:
Reserves including gold (US$ mfNfons)          ..
Conversion rate (DEC, IcallUS$)               ..       ..       1.3       1.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1997      1998
(US$ mflions)                                                                     ComposIton of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total dbtr outstanding and disbursed           ..      ..    1,542      1,682
IBRD                                                            0        0                   F: 78
IDA                                          ..               227      300                    *: 300
Total debt service                            ..       ..        46      171
IBRD                                        ..        .         0        0
IDA                                          ..       .         1        1
Composiiion of net resource flows                                                                                c: 302
Official grants                             ..        .        55
Official creditor                           ..       ..        78      -73
Prvate creditors                            ..        ..        0       -1          E ss
Foreign direc investment                     ..       .        50
Portfolio equity                            ..        .         0
World Bank program                                                                A- ISRD                     E - Batral
Comrrnments                                 ..       ..       174       26      B-IDA     D-Othermutilatebrl   F-Private
Disbursements                                                  64       73      C-IMF                       G - Shor-tern
Principal repayments                        ..       ..         0        0
Netflows                                     ..      ..       64        73
Interest payments                           ..        ..        1        1
Net transfers                               ..       ..       63        72
Development Economics                                                                                             10114/99
-58 -



hZdZ6fO)33@(1)b                                     MINSTRY OF FINANCE
Z3OG6UCM   3O3060686c')                                           OF GEORGLI
z. 7inzL-o 380062, n. Jo, .   Ng7O                     70, r. Abzshidzc ss... 330062, 1bilisi. Gccrgia
&C.; 22 63 05                                         Tcl.: (993 32) 22 68 05
4U.3(Ln 2? 23 68                                       F3x: (995 32) 29 23 63
dfX7z7- X,Y&'39                              Pcevier f/ 15
To: The World Bank
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
laternational Development Association
Government of Georgia welcomes the World Bank's decision to give Georgia credit for
"Road rehabilitation Project" - (40556-GE). Government of Georgia considers this project
as highest priority and it is especial1y sigtnificant for dcvelopment of the economy of the
counny, as well as facilitating of the regional cooperation and intentational trae and further
development of Europe-Asia Transport Corridor.
Georgian governent confirms its readiness to support implcmentation of :his project. This
policy letter is to inform you that according to the Georgian Government decision a special
commission was created in order to rcgulate the Road Sector financing system and further
modernize the Road Fund, The State Minister of Gcorgia headss the cor=rnission; members of
the comnmission are high officials of the zdrnistrics of Finance, Econorny, Trade and Foreign
Economic Relatons and State Deparenent of Roads of Georgia. The Commission will prepare
and submnit to Georgian Government package of proposals for considerarion, to ensure the
.srablishrnent of permanart Road Fund, and usage of Road Fund revenues, first of all for road
maintenance; Establisbmerit of an allocation mechanism for Road Fund in lineC WSith priority
maintenance actvities; Creation of an objective system for sharing the Funds revenue with
Local Administration fo. the maintenance of local roads; Creation of t^he management of
system including rmprescntatives forrn road users, as well as transparent financial procedures
and managcmncnt etc. The package of proposals, in fact, will include al statements of the WB
Prc-appraisal mnission aid inmoir (19-29 October 1999).
Covernmenr of Georgia hopes that the Project Appraisal procedure and negotiations on the
Credit Agreement will be carried out in time. Georgian Goverrunent on its side &IlI fully
support the successful implementation of t.e Proijct.
Minister of Finance of Georgia               Minister of Economy of Georgia
D,Onoprishvili                                     V. Papava
<'                                         /~~7
Mvlinister of Transport of Georgia         Head of the State Departent of Roads
of Georg-la
rY. j2b/l>,; 4r. Adeishvili                   Of Ge>B. Saralidze
-59-



MAP SECTION






18RD 30786
40'                                     4AU                                      44                                       444,5                                                                                                                        6
GEORGIA
HIGHWAY NETWORK
ROAD REHABILITATION
,r'-',                                          ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~R U 5SSI AN    F E DER A T ION-  ROADSSEGMENTS TO BEREHABLITATED                                                              - MAIN ROADS
S                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BUILT-UP URBAN AREA   SECONDARY ROADS
31  '-"'                                                                                                                    0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED CITIES  - RAILROADS
/  N-""'                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 AUTONOMOUSI OBLAST (AOl CENTER  "'DISTRICT ROUNDAR ES
I  '-."..o"                                                                                 *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~NATIONAL CAP TAL        00     AJTONOMOUS REPTUBLIC IAUDRI BOUNDARIES
GLACIER AREAS                                     '    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
45~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERD
I 13       30      4,5    4,0    74 K'LOMETEKS
*  U ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~kM
.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T lAk
\  C'                   r'~~~~~~~~~T )A-',ok
-  0,                                                                                                                                 Bo AS   56          Moo,s     o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~' 'N  ,i     00464 04040     RU 55 IA 
PEREBATON                                                          /                    ,          y-.    <~~~~~~~~~~2r'-~~~.    "                                            A--  -  -C   NDER TIO
Alock  T'4c  -~ ~~~~~~A.c k
-                 O~~~~~EO)04GCA1                                                      T  U  R  K  E  Y                           ~-                                                Ni                                                                                                           1
N4,,AZERBAIJAN&                41 
TURKEY                          Z             Rr,boo,d04~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p.4-,4 by 4,4  M.,444  4D4,,yo.i tI4,i W,Id,ooBo44k
"o144Pd444I4446AMI40doLAA,                                                                                               R    E I
,U504  RAB RTR(   IRAQ     SL-AMIC KBP. OP IRAN                            424''                                                                                                                                                    
MAKRC 2000



