E-314
VOL. 2
GEORGIA ROADS PROJECT
Environmental Assessment
INTRODUCTION
1.    This analysis is based on an environmental review conducted in January 1999 as part of
the Georgia Roads Project (RP) preparation.' The review included consultations with the State
Department of Roads of Georgia (SDRG), the Road Design Institute (RDI,
SAKGZAPROJECT), the Road Research Institute (RRI, SAKGZAMETSNIEREBA), and the
Ministry of Environment (MOE) and 'with selected NGOs interested in environmental issues.
2.    The proposed project rating is Environmental Category B. The environment review has
followed the specifications and guidelines for "Category B" projects provided in the following
World Bank documents: Operational Directive 4.01: Environmental Assessment; Environmental
Assessment Sourcebook; and Roads and the Environment: A Handbook.
BASELINE SITUATION AND PROPOSED INVESTMENT
3.    The Georgian road network consists of over 21,000 kilometers (kms) of roads, of which
about 9,700 are paved. The principal road transport spine is the "Magistral," a highway of about
700 kms that runs from the Azeri border, through Tbilisi, to the Black Sea and the Russian
border. The alignment, longitudinal gradients, and slope stability of this principal highway are
generally acceptable. Maintenance funds for this route have been inadequate for over a decade,
resulting in distressed and potholed surface conditions and blocked drainage.
4.    The RP builds on the achievements of the earlier Transportation Rehabilitation Project
(TRP), which included a priority program of emergency repairs to stabilize about 1,000 kms of
the main network and important secondary feeder roads. To achieve its objectives of lowering
transport unit costs, lowering fiscal costs and inducing efficient resource use in the sector, the RP
comprises routine and periodic road repair and rehabilitation of about 800 kms of road and the
reconstruction of 2 bridges.
5.    In accordance with the Environmental Permits Law of Georgia passed in 1997,
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) for the rehabilitation and reconstniction subprojects
are required. Discussions were held with the MOE and the SDRG concerning this new
requirement and a sample matrix to be used for the EIA. The SDRG and the MOE will jointly
review this matrix and adjust it to best fit the requirements of the new legislation. For this
project, the present legal environmental requirements are adequate in Georgia; it is their
dissemination and enforcement that may be problematic.
6.    Because of the Government's fiscal situation virtually no road maintenance or
construction has taken place in the past several years. There has been no money or need to
modernize the old plants. Furthermore, the old asphalt plants have been dismEntled and only a
I     Preliminary consultations took place in conjunction with a mission to Georgia in October 1998,
and consultations with environmental specialists of the World Bank took place during December and
early January of 1999.



2
few can (and need) be repaired for use. Because it is only after the contracts have been awarded
when it will be known which plants are necessary and economical to be repaired, the
environmental mitigation plan focuses on the process of certifying asphalt plants, and in some
cases, the quarries, and improving the drainage design. However, whenever possible, specific
actions will be proposed and undertaken. It is anticipated that for most asphalt and crushing
plants, the first phase of environmental improvement consists of the installation of scrubbers and
filters to cleanse the dust; for erosion the mitigation is approached through the design of the
subprojects. The essence of the mitigation plan is developmental: observation of the adherence
to environmental laws and requirements. If violations occur, the first step is to work with the
firm or organization to correct the procedure or device; if violations persist stoppage of work is
imposed, ultimately leading to contract cancellation unless corrective measures are taken.
DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
7.    Most rehabilitation and maintenance projects in the road sector have positive
environmental impacts, particularly with the retention of existing alignments. This project is no
exception. The traffic project roads will enjoy reduced vehicle operation costs and cause
attendant reduction in the emission of pollutants, noise and vibrations. The design of the projects
offer an opportunity to introduce mitigation actions, especially with regard to drainage- and
erosion-associated negative environmental impacts, but also with regard to the way road
maintenance and construction activities are undertaken in this project and, in the future, in the
operations of SDRG.
8.    Direct negative impacts from road maintenance and rehabilitation activities arise from: (i)
production and application of bituminous products; (ii) quarrying of stone and gravel; (iii) such
short-term impacts as noise, dust and the disruption of traffic resulting from works execution;
(iv) removal of waste materials; and (v) drainage and erosion. Each of these areas of concern
were examined in the course of the review. Indirect environmental impacts are discussed in
section IV.
9.    Production and Application of Bituminous Products. Although most asphalt plants lie
outside highly populated areas, their emissions represent a potential source of pollution to both
the air and surrounding land areas. No asphalt paving operations have been undertaken in
Georgia in the past several years. For this reason it was not been possible to examine the
environmental properties of the asphalt plants to be used. All asphalt plants are required to
obtain environmental certification in order to operate. Emissions testing, required for
certification, is conducted at the RRI's environmental laboratory, established with assistance
from the TRP. At least one modern emulsion pavement mixing plant has been acquired by a
Georgian contractor. That plant and its associated crushing plant were certified and were
observed to operate satisfactorily during the appraisal mission. The stock piles were in good
order, the stone materials were washed and the dust bound, and the fine materials were protected.
On the same site there also was a certified asphalt station. However, it was not in operation
because of lack of work.
10.   The SDRG has informally notified 12 plants which it expects to compete for providing
asphalt for the project's road works that they must comply with environmental regulations and
obtain the appropriate certification. The deteriorated condition of most plants and the



3
contractor's inability to afford spare parts has made it impossible to improve the processing
techniques until the plant owners have received advance payments-or at least orders-for work.
As an interim measure the RRI, on behalf of the SDRG and in consultation with the MOE, will
prepare guidelines for needed actions to reduce pollution from emissions. These guidelines will
be distributed to all asphalt plants interested in receiving contracts under the project. Only
certified plants will be allowed to compete for provision of asphalt to SDRCi and contractors of
road works.
11.   Quarrving and Crushing of Gravel. The licensing and monitoring system for quarries
was revised by the MOE in 1996, under the Natural Resources Protection Law. The current
system requires that all quarry and crushing sites obtain environmental certification. The
renewal of certificates is periodically determined on a sliding sale based on ithe total size of the
deposit and productive operations at each site. Several certified quarry and crushing sites are in
operation, two were observed during the appraisal mission and operated satisfactorily
12.   Short-term Impact. Short-term impact from noise, dust, vibration, and traffic congestion
during the execution of road work is inevitable. This impact will be minimized under the project
by: (i) requiring contractors to attend an orientation course in construction management and road
maintenance as a pre-requisite to bidding eligibility on project works; and (ii) specifying in all
project contract documents the responsibility of contractors to undertake appropriate work site
mitigation actions as part of the management of work sites. Mitigation actions will be specified
in the bidding documents.
13.   Environmental guidelines to contractors will be based on an updating of specifications
and standard procedures carried over from the Soviet Period with incorporation of recent
environmental legislation. These will be reviewed by the Road Research Institute and the MOE.
The RRI, serving as the consulting engineer for all project works, will be responsible for
monitoring guideline compliance. Contractors will be required to prepare a site-specific
mitigation plan for any site where the scale of impact is judged to be significant; particular
attention would be given to the residential road segments. Subprojects will only be accepted by
the implementing agency, the SDRG, if contractor compliance is certified.
14.   Waste Products. The preparation of specific waste management legislation is pending. A
monitoring system proposal has been prepared and submitted for support by the UNDP.
Technical specifications currently in use in Georgia require the collection and containment of all
waste materials with bituminous content in areas specified for each region. The local offices of
the MOE are responsible for licensing such areas and assuring compliance. All contractors
would be required to conform with environmental regulations and practices relating to proper
disposal. The identification of the disposal site to be used and approximate quantities is to be
included as part of the documentation for each subproject. However, no waste products are
expected in this project as existing material will be re-used to form the sub-base layer in the case
of rehabilitation works.
15.   Drainage. Drainage is the major environmental consideration in this road project. In
general Georgia's highway network was designed with good drainage. The lack of maintenance
is the principal reason for its negative impacts: road surface and road side deterioration, erosion,
and corrosion (at bridges). There also are concerns related to the placement and design of drains,



4
particularly in conjunction with bridges and culverts. The TRP addressed drainage impacts
leading to surface deterioration through the emergency repair program. Drainage issues will be
addressed in this project through corrective actions and improved design before repairs are made.
In the case of reconstruction, drainage improvements will be considered in subproject design. 2
INDIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL IlPACTS
16.   Increased traffic and traffic speed. Indirect environmental impacts possibly arising from
road rehabilitation projects include such long-tertns developments as increases in the growth of
traffic and increases in the speed of traffic. Although road maintenance and rehabilitation are
pre-requisites for such developments, a far higher correlation exists between such developments
and national economic recovery. This is particularly the case in Georgia today.
17.    Road safety. Most drivers, especially truckers, maintain that a major cause of road
accidents is attempting to avoid potholes and deteriorated surface conditions. The repairs to road
surfaces envisioned under the project would increase road safety and more than balance any
likely increase in the level of traffic or speed of vehicles. 3 The project includes a traffic safety
component to begin a comprehensive program for road traffic safety and traffic safety audits for
road designs.
18.   Vehicle emissions. In the case of Georgia, with the economic downturn and a decline in
production levels in the country, road vehicle emissions remain the major source of air pollution.
The roadwork envisioned for the project will reduce vehicle operating costs and the emissions
from vehicles. 4
INSTITUTIONAL AND REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS
19.   Throughout the 1990s the transition from the former Soviet System to market economics
has severely stressed the Government's capacity to deliver quality services. The restructuring of
the transport sector organizations is still underway and sector management legislation,
regulations, guidelines, and procedures are being formalized and gradually implemented.
Progress has been made in the development of provisions for environmental protection, but
continued economic hardships divert attention from their enforcement. Definitional
clarifications in environmental legislation are underway.
2     The design for one of the bridges proposed for reconstruction includes corrective action to
counter erosion resulting from the original design that resulted in a damage to the bridge itself. The
problem at the bridge site is not due to erosion per se but to too short bridge span for the volume of water
at peak flows and a weak foundation design which has resulted in a movement of bridge abutments. The
corrective action consists of moving the bridge slightly upstream, increasing the span length, and using a
piled foundation to withstand the pore water pressure. Erosion also exists in some areas from improperly
designed or placed drains, lack of maintenance and, especially, where construction work was initiated but
stopped.
3     Statistics available for the MOT indicate that there has been a decline in traffic accidents on the
main route receiving maintenance under the TRP whereas there has been an increase on secondary roads
not provided for under the TRP.
4     The RDI has conducted analysis for the rehabilitation component indicating the positive returns
on reduced vehicle operating costs and vehicle emissions.



5
20.   The Ministry of Environment has undergone internal changes, moving from first being a
national commission to becoming a full ministry. A National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP) has been drafted, with assistance from the World Bank and other donors, and is now
awaiting submission to Parliament for ratification. Nine major environmental laws have been
passed, and two others are pending. The qualifications of MOE central staff have been
upgraded, and divisional responsibilities clarified. As part of its reform, the MOE has
established regional offices and devolved certain regulatory functions to these centers. Concepts
of follow-up and enforcement are still evolving. Such factors have been taken into consideration
in the design of the mitigation plan.
21.   Technical assistance under the proposed project will support strengthening of SDRG
capacity in the area of works planning and supervision, including environment management and
implementation of the project environmental mitigation action plan.



6
MITIGATION PLAN
22.   The following mitigation plan has been prepared to minimize any potential negative
environmental impacts from the project. The essential elements in the plan, summarized in
Table 1, address impacts from periodic maintenance, rehabilitation, and reconstruction works on
roads and include needed institutional strengthening activities.
23.   A working group for liaison and auditing will be responsible for monitoring the
mitigation plan and ensuring that certification processes are valid. The validity will be verified
by the conduct of site audits. The first set of audits will be conducted within six months of the
initiation of road maintenance activities; subsequent sets will be conducted one and two years
later. The working group will consist of representatives of the MOE, the Transport Reform and
Rehabilitation Center (TRRC), the SDRG, and one NGO working with environmental issues.
The Deputy Minister of the MOE will appoint a representative to serve as chair. The TRRC will
serve as the secretary of the group. The group will meet as necessary but at least once between
each Bank supervision mission and after each annual audit.



7
Table 1: Environmental Mitigation Plan
ISSUES                          MITIGATIVE ACTIONS                         Institutional Responsibility
1. Policy         The SDRG will prepare and disseminate to its staff and to all potential   SDRG, TRRC
Conmmitment       and actual contractors or suppliers providing services to the SDRG a 1-2
page policy statement to underline the importance the SDRG accords    A "stakeholder" meeting,
environmental protection require all staff to follow environmental  organized by SDRG and
regulations, and inform contractors and suppliers that they must work in  TRRC and attended by app. 50
accordance with environmental laws and regulations.         construction compar- and
municipality offici2 vas
held in October 199, - 
inform of the Credit, its
environmental requirements
and the mitigation plan.
The SDRG will not award contracts to suppliers and contractors that are
not fully certified. Certiftation will cover sources of gravel and other   SDRG, MOE
materials such as asphalt.
2. Training       An orientation seminar on environmental protection and site  SDRG, TRRC
management will be organized for SDRG; the MOE, and the local
engineering industTy.                                       Re: the "stakeholder" meeting.
3. Enviromnental   Both the Technical Department of the SDRG, and the MOE will  SDRG, MOE
Expertise         upgrade their expertise in environmental protection. During the life of
the project this may be achieved through contracting with an
environmental specialist, but should become a permanent in-house
capacity in the future.
4. Liaison and    A liaison and auditing working group will be established to monitor the   SDRG, TRRC, MOE
Auditing          mitigation plan and ensure the validity of certification processes.
Site visits conducted by a local consulting firm, serving as an  SDRG, TRRC, Consulting
independent auditor and reporting to the working group, will confirm  Firm
that sites are being properly managed, environmental certifications halve
been obtained, and all work is in compliance with national
environmental standards. Three different sites will be audited each
year, providing nine different site audits over a three year period. The
working group and the auditors will make themselves available for
consultation with the supervision missions of the World Bank fwithout
additional chargcl.



8
ISSUES                           MlllGATIVE ACTIONS                            Institutional Responsibility
5. Production and   The major issue with the asphalt plats is the dust All asphalt plants  SDRG, Contractors, MOE
Application of     providing bituminous materials to the projects will be required to
Bitunminous        conform with environmental regulations. Certification of compliance
Products           with enviromnental standards will be required from contractors/plants
that participate in the project. The MOE and the SDRG will prepare a
short guideline on emission reduction for distribution to all potential
operators of asphalt plants in the project. The immediate mitigation
measures consist in better filtering of the plant and storage of materials.
6. Quanfying and    Contractors will be required to use materials taken only from licensed    SDRG
Crushing of Stone   sites. Copies of these licenses will be provided in the documents
and Gravel         provided by the consulting engineer, and in the ElAs provided to the
MOE. Initial violations by contractors would result in the stoppage of
work; recurrent violations would result in the cancellation of contracts.
6. Hazardous       Contractors will be required to use construction materials only from  SDRG
Materials          licensed sites and monitor the composition of the asphalt mix to avoid
the use of hazardous fillers such as asbestos.
7. Short Term      Attendance at an orientation seminar will be required of all contractors   SDRG
Impact: Noise,     as a pre-requisite for bidding on work under the project. This will
Dust, Vibration,    include site management and mitigation planning for such short-term
Traffic Safety    impacts as noise, dust, vibration, and traffic congestion during
diversions for the execution of work. Contracts providing for periodic,
rehabilitation, or reconstruction services under the project will require
contractors to address these issues in the management of their work.
8. Waste Materials  The orientation seminar would include proper methodology for the
disposal of materials to avoid contamination of soils and the water table.
The regional office of the MOE would be responsible for certifying that
all waste materials are placed in areas designated for that use by the
MOE. Certification by the MOE would be included in the acceptance
documentation.
9. Drainage and    Drainage continues to be a major concern, as it was in the TRP.  SDRG
Erosion            Surface deterioration that has resulted from improper drainage will be
corrected before repairs are made. Drainage issues will be considered in
the design of all rehabilitation and reconstruction subprojects.



t
9
Table 2: Environmental Monitoring Plan
Phase              Parameter           Parameter        Parameter         Parameter       Institutional
Responsibility
What                Where            How               When          Installation
operation
Implement   Number of contractors    SDRG and         Participation in   . After each     SDRG    SDRG
ation/Cons  attended SDRG seminars.  TRRC            seminars          seminar (2/year)    and      and
truction                                                                                  TRRC    TRRC
SDRG    SDRG
Number of              SDRG and          Audit reports    One audit/year    and       and
enviromental audits.    TRRC                                                 TRRC    TRRC
. Number of asphalt plants  SDRG          SDRG Annual    once a year         SDRG    SDRG
certified by the MOE.                    report
. Number of licensed    SDRG              SDRG Annual    once a year         SDRG    SDRG
stone crushing plants.                  report
. Actions taken to mitigate  SDRG         Supervision                        SDRG    SDRG
short termn impacts of                   report and audit  . twice a year
works.                                  reports
Operation   . Number of asphalt plants  SDRG          . SDRG Annual    once year          SDRG    SDRG
certified by the MOE.                    report
. Number of licensed    SDRG             . SDRG Annual   . once year         SDRG    SDRG
stone crushing plants.                  report
. Actions taken to mitigate  SDRG        . Supervision    . twice a year     SDRG    SDRG
maintenance short temn                   report of SDRG
impacts of maintenance
works.
World Bank User
P:\GEORGIA\INFRA\RoadProj\2LENA\Envirass.doc
03/23/00 1:45 PM



