                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 35396

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (PPFI-Q0780 IDA-33570)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 29.8 MILLION
                              (US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                TO THE GOVERNMENT OF

                                       GEORGIA

                                        FOR A

                                    ROADS PROJECT




                                       June1, 2006




Infrastructure Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective March, 2006)

                             Currency Unit = Georgian Lari (GEL)
                                    1 GEL = US$ 0.5472
                                   US$ 1.0 = 1.8275 GEL
                                  US$1.44 = SDR 1
                                     1 GEL = SDR 0.38

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1   -  December 31


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     =     Country Assistance Strategy
GDRMED  =     General Directorate of Roads under the Ministry of Economic Development
ERR     =     Economic Rate of Return
ICR     =     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     =     International Development Association
IMF     =     International Monetary Fund
NPV     =     Net Present Value
PAD     =     Project Appraisal Document
PIU     =     Project Implementation Unit
PMS     =     Pavement Management System
RDMID   =     Road Department of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development
RF      =     Road Fund
SDRG    =     State Department of Roads of Georgia
TA      =     Technical Assistance
TORs    =     Terms of Reference
TRRC    =     Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center




                            Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                         Country Director     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo, ECCU3
                 Sector Manager/Director      Motoo Konishi/Peter Thomson, ECSIE
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Olivier Le Ber, ECSIE

                                          GEORGIA
                                         Roads Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            22
Annex 8. Letter from SDRG                                                        23
Map IBRD No. 34805

Project ID: P040556                                                  Project Name: Roads Project
Team Leader: Olivier Le Ber                                          TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 1, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Roads Project                                            L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0780; IDA-33570
   Country/Department: GEORGIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (99%); Central government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Rural services and infrastructure (S);
                            Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/06/1997                                     Effective: 01/31/2001                01/31/2001
     Appraisal: 02/03/2000                                         MTR: 09/30/2003                  12/14/2002
      Approval: 05/25/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA/STATE DEPARTMENT OF ROADS OF
                                           GEORGIA (SDRG)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                            Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:                 Peter D. Thomson                               Ricardo A. Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:             Olivier Le Ber                                 Antti P. Talvitie
ICR Primary Author:             Mirtha Pokorny


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No



Quality at Entry would be rated Marginnaly Satisfactory under the new 6-notch scale.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original development objectives of the Roads Project, as described in the PAD, were:

      (i)    to reduce road transport costs and improve access in Georgia's major corridors;
      (ii)   to provide a steady and adequate level of funding for road maintenance (including routine and
             periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction) based on charges related to road use
             and road access; and
      (iii)  to improve management and effectiveness of the entire road network, including local roads,
             through the institutional strengthening of the State Department of Roads of Georgia (SDRG)
             and the development of the private road construction industry.

The project supported the October 21, 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives that rested on
four main themes: (i) strengthening public finance; (ii) deepening and diversifying sources of growth; (iii)
protecting the environment; and (iv) reducing poverty. The project's main contribution to these objectives,
as stated in the PAD, was to reduce road infrastructure bottlenecks through increased focus on (i)
promoting state-level policy reforms and improving delivery effectiveness of road sector spending, (ii)
improving strategic planning and maintenance effectiveness; and (iii) facilitating private sector involvement
in road engineering construction and maintenance.

Project objectives were clear and thought to be realistic at the time of project preparation, particularly
considering that the project built upon previous IDA involvement in the transport sector, which supported
major structural transformations in the sector. The Georgian road agency (called SDRG at project
appraisal), was the recipient of IDA's first transport project in Georgia, the Transport Rehabilitation
Project, and by the time of the appraisal of the Roads Project SDRG had taken a number of important steps
to improve the efficiency and financial health of the sector: (i) a Road Fund dedicated to preserving the
road infrastructure was introduced in 1995; (ii) state enterprises in road construction and maintenance,
road design institutes, and road transport carriers were privatized; and (iii) the staff and activities of the
remaining State entities were streamlined. Also, with IDA support the Ministry of Transport was created
in 1996 by the Georgian Government to formulate and manage policy and regulation of the transport mode.

The Roads Project was conceived to reduce the road rehabilitation and maintenance backlog of a network
that was suffering from decades of neglect and, on the institutional front, to move from the structural
reorganization of the sector to the modernization and capacity building phase. The politically difficult
measures to dismantle the Soviet style road agency were by then behind but much remained to be done to
have in place an adequately working institution. The stage was thought to be set to cement those changes,
bring technical and managerial standards up to Western accepted practices, fine tune revenue collection to
ensure funding closely aligned with road access and user charges, improve the governance and
accountability of the Road Fund and start-up the creation of the institutional framework to incorporate road
safety in road management. The underlying paradigm was a move (even if only the first steps) towards a
commercial orientation of roads, with the sector financed by user fees channeled through the Fund, a
governance structure that included public and private stakeholders, modern western road standards, and
decisions based on sound technical and economic criteria supported by state of the art management
systems.

IDA's preparation team acknowledged that the Government planned to move gradually in those areas in
which politically sensitive decisions were required (e.g. revision of user charges and functional
reclassification of roads). In other areas, such as traffic safety or design standards clearly the team's
intention was to place the issues in the government's agenda, starting a process that is known to be long



                                                    - 2 -

term and requires substantial work to raise awareness and achieve meaningful actions. Based on IDA's
experience in the previous projects in Georgia, project objectives and project design followed the logical
continuation of a work already in progress. In retrospect, however, it is clear that the initial previous
project involved mainly difficult but very definite political decisions at the very beginning of the country's
independence, when the old Soviet system had to be taken apart and IDA was instrumental in supporting
the development of a basic framework for a modern public sector. The Roads Project, subject of this
report, aimed at making inroads in developing a different culture, going from the purely legal and
organizational structure to the institutionalization and mainstreaming of principles of efficiency and
accountability. As it turned out the latter proved to be a more difficult task in a sector already showing
signs of "reform fatigue", hard to die cultural traits and the effects of a hurried dismantling of existing
structures without sound provisions for its replacement.

The accomplishments of the project were substantial, but mostly limited to (i) the physical improvement of
the network, (ii) the increased competence of the construction industry to adopt new technologies, and (iii) a
significant improvement in the capability of the consulting industry to carry out civil works supervision. It
is clear in retrospect that the government was keener to consider advice on engineering principles than on
policy issues related to governance and sound public sector management. In particular, achievements were
at the very best marginal on the improvement of road management capabilities, and there was a major set
back in the project's objective of mainstreaming the "user pay" principle in road financing. This objective
was overtaken by events in that the new Government following the Rose Revolution in 2003 decided on a
different approach to ensure adequate funding involving elimination of the Road Fund and providing
increased direct budget transfers.    This is in keeping with the new Government's desire to streamline
procedures and reduce the opportunities for corruption. On the positive side, the project contributed to
raise the awareness of the new government on the main sector issues and left a fairly workable blueprint of
the actions that should be adopted to improve sector management.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained formally unchanged during the life of the project. However, the objective of
securing a stable source of funding for road maintenance was pursued by the new Government following
the Rose Revolution through increased direct budget transfers rather than linked to specific road user
charges provided through a Road Fund. Based on the discussions in the PAD, on the selection of
monitoring indicators, and on the inclusion of the very explicit covenants in the Credit Agreement with
respect to the long term existence of the Fund, its sources of funding and its governance structure, the ICR
concludes that the objective of securing a stable source of financing referred specifically to strengthening
the performance of the Road Fund (the Credit Agreement also included a clause obligating the government
to increase road maintenance allocations in amounts at least proportional to the increase on general
revenues).     As it turned out, the reform oriented new government brought into office after the rose
revolution, with the support of the IMF and IDA decided to eliminate extra-budgetary funds.              IDA
management, in view of the strong commitment of the Government to adequately fund the sector, agreed
that the adoption of multi-year programs and budgets were sound substitutes for the Road Fund and
constituted a stable alternative. These commitments were formalized through a Policy Letter presented by
the Georgian government in the context of the preparation of the Secondary and Local Roads Project (Cr.
3938-GE), and as general revenues trebled between 2004 and 2005 allocations for road maintenance as
agreed during the negotiations of the Secondary and Local Roads Project, increased a staggering 174%
during the same period.

3.3 Original Components:
The project, with an estimated total cost of US$55.0 million, was described in the PAD as having the
following components:



                                                     - 3 -

    (a)    Civil works for periodic maintenance and repairs (US$16.77 million). Proposed treatment
           included 470 km of drainage upgrading, and 281 km of surface treatment.
    (b)    Civil works for road rehabilitation (US$29.38 million). Included the rehabilitation of about 162
           km of the main road network.
    (c)    Civil works for the reconstruction of two bridges (US$5.35 million).
    (d)    Institutional Strengthening of SDRG. (US$3.0 million) Including consultant services to update
           the functional classification of roads; modernizing the Road Fund and Road User Charges;
           development of a traffic safety program; installing a pavement management system and a road
           data bank; updating existing technical standards and specifications to international practices;
           installing a financial management system; improving the management and administration of
           contracts; planning of maintenance activities and sector performance indicators; training for the
           above; funds for financial audits of the project accounts; and equipment for carrying out road
           management functions, including traffic counters, a deflectometer, mobile weighing scales,
           testing equipment, field laboratory, office equipment and supplies, and vehicles.
    (e)    Incremental operating costs for project management (US$0.50 million).

The IDA Credit was approved by the Board on May 25, 2000 and signed on July 26, 2000. It was ratified
by Parliament as required by Georgian Law, a process that delayed effectiveness by about seven months.
The Credit was declared effective on January 31, 2001.

3.4 Revised Components:
The original project components remained formally unchanged. In 2002 the Government requested Bank
support for a Secondary and Rural Roads Project, and the Bank agreed to include in the Roads Project a
pilot program to identify the optimal technologies to be applied to the improvement of those roads. The
pilot was implemented at a total cost of about U$1.0 million, which were financed from the originally
unallocated funds.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR, with the benefit of hindsight, finds the quality at entry marginally satisfactory. Probably the
main flaw of project design was to misconstrue the Bank's past experience in Georgia and past
government's receptiveness to improve public sector management, frequently with the adoption of
politically difficult measures, and conclude that the government (before the rose revolution) was ready to
continue forward with sweeping sector reforms. Hence, the project filled the government's agenda with a
diverse set of issues. Bank experience shows that the type of complex and "all encompassing" action plan
proposed by the project could have only been tackled with strong local ownership, sufficient indigenous
capabilities, and possibly a local "champion" of reform. As it turned out, that level of commitment was far
from present in Georgia, although it improved very significantly with the new Government following the
rose revolution. The institutional development elements of the project turned out to be largely supply
driven, a characteristic that might sometimes shed positive results, but rarely on the wide scope of issues
addressed under the project. To a great extent, there was also an element of overstated optimism with
respect to the potential institutional development in the writing of the project documents. Nevertheless,
project preparation was thorough, and detailed implementation plans were prepared and updated frequently.
The remarkable smooth implementation of the civil works and adherence to the original procurement and
execution plans, even in the midst of the political upheaval and government changes that shook the country
in 2003, attest to the quality at entry of the physical components. Preparation took into account IDA's
safeguard policies including the development of an appropriate environmental management plan. Project
risks were mostly appropriately assessed although some of them might have been better addressed with
up-front conditions to confirm the level of government conviction on the proposed institutional program.
There was no Quality Assurance group assessment of this project.



                                                      - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is considered to be satisfactory, a conclusion based on the fact that the
objectives were either fully or partially achieved, and among the fully achieved, the more pressing one of
reducing transport costs. With respect to the outcome/achievements of each objective:

Objective (a): reduce road transport costs and improve access in Georgia's major traffic corridors.
Achievement/Outcome: All the physical investments were successfully completed and they contributed to
reduce transport costs on the main transport corridors by at least 15%.

Objective (b): provide a steady and adequate level of funding for road maintenance (including routine and
periodic maintenance, rehabilitation and reconstruction) based on charges related to road use and road
access.
Achievement/Outcome: Since independence, the fiscal crisis in the country had prevented the government
from providing the road sector with sufficient funding, and addressing the ensuing backlog of deferred
maintenance was considered one of the highest sector priorities. As a result of intensive dialogues between
the Minister of Finance, IDA, and the Georgian Road Sector Agencies under the Transport Rehabilitation
Project, a Road Fund (RF) was created under the Road Fund Law of 1995. The Fund at the time of
appraisal was functioning as a division within SDRG. The head of the RF was appointed by SDRG's
chairman and reported directly to him. The project aimed at moving the governance structure towards an
independent legal entity, headed by a Chairman appointed by the Minister (or even the President) and a
representative board with members nominated from key government ministries and road users groups. As
discussed above, the Road Fund was eliminated.

A Road Fund is only an instrument, albeit a powerful one, to dedicate funds (preferably linked to user
charges) to the roads. A government committed to the "user pay" principle may very well allocate funds
linked to user charges indirectly through the budget, and achieve alternative means of securing efficiency,
transparency and accountability in road management. That is not the case of the present system in Georgia.
While funding for the roads have increased substantially and the government is giving a very high priority
to the development of the infrastructure, the basic principles behind the project objective (i.e. moving
towards a commercial management of the roads with users paying, with efficiency and accountability
secured by an overseeing body of stakeholders, and with a substantial level of independence from the
political whims of the moment) were not formally achieved although the strong commitment of the
Government to adequately fund the sector, formalized through a Policy Letter constituted a stable
alternative acceptable to IDA.

Objective (c): improve management and effectiveness of the entire road network, including local roads,
through the institutional strengthening of the SDRG and the development of the private road construction
industry.
Achievement/Outcome: The project did (i) raise the government awareness of the need for a new functional
classification for all public roads although the expectations of starting the process during the life of the
project were not fulfilled; (ii) a Pavement Management System (PMS-HDM4) is in place although not yet
fully operational as a management tool as originally envisaged; (iii) a road data bank for the most
important attributes has been established for the main roads although not yet for the entire public road
network by the Credit closing date; (iv) all project related civil works were implemented by private
contractors; and (vi) a three year rolling road program covering all proposed investments in the national
road network planned to be undertaken by the government will be prepared. All these achievements are
only incipient, are well behind in terms of original expectations, and not necessarily are perceived as crucial



                                                     - 5 -

by the government.        Furthermore, there were delays in project implementation due to changes in
government, disagreements between the project team and Bank management on the selection of consultants
and problems with the quality of the major technical assistance to help the government in these areas.
However, the basis is there to build up the institutional capacity during follow-up projects and therefore,
the ICR considers that this objective was largely achieved although the dated monitoring indicators were
very optimistic.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance. The project financed the rehabilitation of about 167 km of
roads and routine maintenance, basically surface treatment on 224 km of roads at total cost of US$47.2
million, well in line with appraisal estimates. Implementation was in general fairly smooth and problem
free, except for minor difficulties arising from delays in payments to the contractors. In some instances
these delays were caused by IDA's slowness in replenishing the Special Account, presumably due to an
excessive workload. The quality of the works was considered to be very good, an accomplishment that has
to be traced to the outstanding work done by the supervision, which included substantial know-how transfer
to the local consultants and is perceived by the Borrower as an important achievement under the project.

Bridge Rehabilitation. The project financed the rehabilitation of two bridges at a total cost of US$4.5
million, compared to the appraisal estimate of US$4.7 million.

Institutional Strengthening. This component was clearly designed to achieve several objectives and its
implementation was rather uneven, with some of the tasks/objectives implemented successfully while others
were considered of poor quality. Problems in the execution of this component arose for different reasons of
which the most important were: (i) different visions of SDRG and the consultants with respect to key
aspects of policy recommendations, in particular technical standards; (ii) poor quality of some of the
consultants' reports, a problem that was significantly amplified by the difficulties in securing good
translations; (iii) lack of experience in SDRG with this type of TAs, coupled with lack of expertise in the
areas being discussed, which complicated the client/supplier relation; and (iv) lack of capabilities within
SDRG to assimilate the know-how transfers intended to take place during the project. The TA was
implemented under one major consulting contract at a cost of US$4.0 million (including supervision), and it
was divided into nine specific tasks. The following paragraphs assess the achievements under each element
of the TA, although not necessarily dwelling on the amount of effort, revisions and discussions generated
by each one of them.

Task 1. Review and Recommendations for Specific Standards and Specifications for Pavements. In
general the outcome of this technical assistance was satisfactory. Reports were prepared on recommended
structure of pavement standards and specifications of asphalt concrete pavements. The Borrower found
this TA particularly useful although narrow in its treatment of only one type of pavement.

Task 2. Review and Recommendations for the Functional Classification of Roads. The implementation
of this task was successfully completed in 2003 with the preparation of a functional road classification
system and the related proposed legal/regulatory framework. The Borrower considers the need to reclassify
roads and redefine their ownership an important priority, and sees the consultant's report as a tool to
further the argument for reclassification in Parliament.

Task 3. Development of proposals for Road Fund legislation and Road User Charges. This task was
mostly completed although not fully finalized because the decision to eliminate the Road Fund made the
legislation issue moot. The revision of road user charges, which was going to be derived from the work on
the Pavement Management System (PMS), was not carried out because implementation of the PMS
experienced serious delays and it is still not completed. Interestingly enough, the government considered



                                                     - 6 -

the completion of this task only necessary in the context of the Road Fund, clear evidence that substantial
work is still necessary until Georgia adopts basic principles of road financing.

Task 4. Development of a Road Data Bank and a Pavement Management System. Although still not fully
completed, this component is probably the one presenting the highest potential for a sustainable impact in
SDRG. Its implementation was delayed by the lack of personnel in SDRG to be trained in the use of the
PMS. Eventually local young engineers or computer experts were hired as consultants to be trained in the
use the PMS, a task that is still underway. Several problems in harmonizing systems and data also
contributed to the delays in implementing this task. One particular problem is the poor retention capability
of SDRG, particularly when these young experts are in high demand.

Task 5. Development of a "Rolling Multi-year road Program". Implementation of this task encountered
substantial problems as the consultants did not carry out the expected training. A three year program was
developed although the objective of continuing the updating of the program and, more importantly, its use
as a management tool, will need substantial further work.

Task 6. Development of a Traffic Safety Program. The consultants developed a comprehensive traffic
safety program involving the participation of different agencies, including education and enforcement, and
their coordination. The Borrower accepted the recommendations of the consultants, but considers them
rather theoretical for Georgian conditions. The future challenge will be to develop and implement short
term measures to mainstream road safety in RDMID.

Task 7. Development of Performance Indicators for SDRG to manage its road program. The task was
successfully completed although the road agency continues to be highly politicized and not yet ready to
adopt the performance criteria developed by the consultants.

Task 8. Work Supervision. This was considered one of the most successful elements of the technical
assistance. Consultants worked together with local counterparts and effectively achieved substantial
know-how transferred in the quality of supervision.

Task 9. Improvement of SDRG's financial management. The task was successfully completed and TORs
were developed for a financial management system.

In addition to the main technical assistance contract discussed above, the project included study tours to
familiarize SDRG with road management policies in Western countries, consulting services for project
design, and the purchase of equipment, at a total cost of about US$1.1 million for road management
(weighing scales, deflectometers, computers, etc.).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The ex-post economic evaluation confirms the economic merits of the project. The appraisal report
estimated a cost of US$26.2 million for the rehabilitation of about 162 km of the international road network
and an ERR and a NPV of 40% and US$26.9 million respectively. The actual number of km improved is
close to 148 at a cost of US$27 million. The increase in costs were more than compensated by an increase
in benefits due to higher than expected traffic flows. Thus, the ex-post ERR and NPV are 41% and
US$60.3 million respectively. Cost increases per km were mainly due to further deterioration suffered by
the roads between the date of preliminary analysis and the actual beginning of works. Regarding the
reconstruction of the two bridges, investment costs were lower than expected while the actual traffic was
higher, yielding in both cases estimated ERRs above 50%. (Annex 3).




                                                     - 7 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was not calculated since there are no revenue earning entities in the project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project should be considered modest, albeit a work in progress
especially considering the reform oriented mind of the Government established after the rose revolution.
The project certainly helped to improve important technical aspects of road construction and, to a certain
extent, design. It also contributed to a significant development of the local construction industry. In the
area of road management, the project developed a workable blueprint and proposals in key areas, such as
road classification, traffic safety and data banks. The challenge now, within the ongoing IDA dialogue with
the government, is to develop a long term institutional vision that builds upon the achievements under the
project. Particularly promising are the institutionalization of modern planning and programming techniques
for roads investments and maintenance. These efforts, however, will require a sustained commitment from
the RDMID, both in terms of human and financial resources, to move from the "what to do stage" to the
actual implementation of the recommendations left by the technical assistance under the project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no factors outside the control of the government or implementing agency affecting the outcome
of the project, except probably the change in government itself as a result of the "Rose Revolution",
resulting in a more reform oriented government. The advent of the new administration was also the pivotal
element in the elimination of the Road Fund, the successful increase in general revenues and the currently
substantial allocation of maintenance funds for the road network.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The main interface between the project and the government was road financing. The project contained two
main instruments to secure acceptable levels of funding for the network. The first one was a legal covenant
that, acknowledging the government's dire financial situation and difficulties to raise revenues, obligated it
to increase (or decrease) the funding of road maintenance at a rate equal to the increase in general revenues;
the second one were the already discussed obligations with respect to the Road Fund. During the first few
years of the project, until the advent of the new administration in 2003, percentage increases in road
funding were substantially below increases in the general revenues. The new administration proved to be
highly successful in restructuring the tax system and raising revenues. As already discussed, to a great
extent, the adverse impact of the Fund's closure was more than compensated by the important budgetary
increases of the resources allocated to road maintenance, over and above the rate of increase in general
revenues. It remains to be seen if this more traditional indirect channeling of user fees to the roads will
provide in the future the level of stability and predictability required for an efficient operation and
maintenance of the network.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The institutional organization of the sector was and continues to be in a state of flux, with a road
administration that went through different degrees of autonomy and is now under the Ministry of Economic
Development. More constant factors in the sector are (i) a production oriented culture with a limited
inclination to the introduction of modern asset management concepts, although things improved with the
post rose revolution government; and (ii) lack of local capabilities derived from low salaries in the public
sector, anachronistic university training, and limited possible delivery of training due to language barriers.
Within this context, the executing agency, supported by well qualified and a quite experienced PIU, took
the necessary steps to implement the different project components. As such, the civil works and technical
assistance elements of the project were completed. However, the actions required to comply with the



                                                      - 8 -

monitoring indicators, all of them under the jurisdiction of the implementing agency were unduly delayed
(e.g. hiring of engineers and economists to be trained on the pavement management system).

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the implemented project was US$57.2 million (as compared to the US$55.0 expected at
appraisal), of which 71% was financed by IDA, and 29% by the Government of Georgia. The higher than
programmed project costs were due to an increase in the technical assistance component to (i) prepare the
Secondary and Local Roads Project; and (ii) to additions to the institutional development technical
assistance in many cases to upgrade the original Terms of Reference.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the institutional development and the substantial infrastructure improvements
supported by the credit appears as likely. The policy and institutional measures supported under the project
provide a basic framework for productive dialogue on a well-managed sector. The substantive IDA
program for the road sector of Georgia should provide the necessary continuity to achieve progress in areas
that were only initiated under this project but that will require a long-term approach, with changes taking
place at a pace more in line with the realities of the country and with an initial focus on those areas in
which the government shows adequate receptiveness. The proposed East-West Highway Improvement
Project, follows up on issues such as the full adoption of Western standards in road design, actually
ensuring a better use of scarce resources and thus an increased likelihood that the expected benefits of the
infrastructure improvements will materialize as planned. Similarly, technical assistance under the United
States funded Millennium Challenge Corporation Project ($102 million) will also contribute to further
strengthen the institutional development and will fund substantial infrastructure improvements

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
IDA, in the context of the present dialogue with the Georgian authorities to continue its support for the
sector is currently preparing a project focusing on the improvement of key links of the road network and
advancing the dialogue with the road authorities to gradually introduce concepts of value engineering in its
modus operandi.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project preparation was thorough and effective in those areas in which the Bank was able to rely in an
in-depth knowledge of the country needs, particularly on the physical improvements of the sector
infrastructure, which had basically the character of a follow on project. In the case of the sector financing
and institutional development components project preparation, although meticulous and highly professional
showed some disconnect between the aims and proposed targets of the project and the actual intentions and
capabilities of the government with respect to the expected achievements. Much of this disconnect can be
attributed more to a problem of report writing (i.e. with a tendency to inflate possible impacts) rather than
of project design. Based on the above, project preparation is considered satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
IDA's missions visited Georgia regularly twice and thrice a year to assess progress in the implementation
of the project. The supervision team engaged in candid and enriching exchange of ideas with government
officials and made a commendable effort to convey the benefits of modern road construction technologies
and state of the art technical designs. Supervision missions also were highly proactive in ensuring the
government participation and interaction with the technical assistance consultants, particularly to address


                                                     - 9 -

problems in the quality of the products being delivered. Also, the supervision team acted always diligently
to smooth out implementation problems as, for example, ensuring IDA revision of its procurement rules
which were unduly limiting the participation of local contractors. The ICR, based on the supervision
reports, finds three areas in which the supervision could have been stronger: (i) a sharper focus on all the
legal covenants of the project; (ii) a more balanced consideration of the financial and nonfinancial aspects
of the project in evaluating progress and achievements; and (iii) a greater emphasis on monitoring
indicators and risk ratings. These comments take into account the following:

     (a) supervision reports consistently point out the lack of compliance with the agreement on allocating
         funds to roads linked to the general revenues, but do not generally mention other legal covenants,
         including those related to the Road Fund. Covenants on the latter, key to the project design, were
         never waived and the Credit Development Agreement was not amended when the Fund was
         abolished;
     (b) for a period of time, the financial aspects of the project received an unsatisfactory rating while
         when the institutional targets of the project as measured by the monitoring indicators, were far
         from being on track, the institutional component rating always remained positive; and
     (c) risk ratings of less than expected institutional reforms due to lack of government ownership,
         remained as moderate throughout the life of the project.

While the above comments refer more to the interface of the supervision team and IDA management,
relations with the Borrower were always excellent, and the team was instrumental in accomplishing a
rather smooth project implementation during difficult political times. Thus, the ICR finds the Bank
supervision performance overall as satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the preceding discussion, the Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performance in project preparation was satisfactory. The Borrower was actively engaged in
project preparation and contributed to shape the physical component of the project. The design and
preparation of the institutional component of the project fell mostly on the Bank team. It might be
concluded that the Borrower saw the technical assistance component as an implicit cost of securing
financing for the road network rather than as an opportunity for strengthening SDRG.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government implemented the project with diligence and was open to exchange ideas on many issues for
which solutions are not always obvious and for which consultants, IDA staff and local authorities offered
differing views. The government, both in the executive and legislative branches, was always open to
discussions with IDA on financial issues and was finally more than forthcoming, with the new government
and the new management at General Directorate of Roads under the Ministry of Economic Development
(GDRMED) in appropriating substantial resources to the sector.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The executing agency, which went from SDRG at appraisal to GDRMED with the new government, was
eager to implement the civil works and technical assistance contracts financed under the project, and to
profit from the sound engineering advice brought from IDA and the consultants' experts. SDRG was
willing to try new technologies and accept new ways of doing things (e.g. use IDA's procurement rules for
all the procurement in the country) in those cases in which the benefits were self evident, but was reluctant



                                                    - 10 -

to shed certain ideas inherited from the old soviet system (e.g. standards). GDRMED was ready to
participate in reviewing, commenting, attending related presentations and workshops on the several
documents produced as part of the nine tasks of the technical assistance component, actively ensuring that
he final product was acceptable.       However, it was not necessarily convinced that the consultants'
recommendations, particularly those aiming to changes in culture towards efficiency and transparency,
were a priority. The smooth implementation of the contracts financed under the project should, to an
important extent, be attributed to TRRC. The latter, with its long experience in IDA projects and IDA's
rules, contributed to the minimal delay in project execution due to changes in government and the road
agency.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above discussion the Borrower's performance is considered satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The design and implementation of the project offers the following considerations that might be useful in
shaping future projects of this nature:

Legal covenants should be carefully worded to allow adequate flexibility in their achievement. An efficient
road sector requires the acceptance and adoption of key principles that may be put in place through
different mechanisms and under different types of administrations. Among these principles are the need to
maintain the quality and serviceability of infrastructure assets through adequate funding, up to date
technical capabilities and efficient use of scarce resources and, for the use of public monies, transparency
and accountability. Legal covenants should refer to the observance of these principles rather than to the
specific mechanisms to put them into practice. Only when a particular method counts with the strong and
evident support and consensus of key stakeholders in the country, IDA legal covenants might be more
specific and help to secure the prompt implementation of the chosen mechanism. The Road Fund issue
under this project is a case in point. Its creation was driven by IDA and probably only fully supported by
the road administration. Its existence was more a matter of opinion than a matter of principles, in a sense
making the related legal covenants unenforceable and finally ignored.

The design and implementation of projects in the road sector should give equal or more weight to the issue
of quality of expenditures rather than to the issue of quantity of expenditures. There appears to have been
a marked emphasis during project implementation on funding issues.              This is clearly reflected in
supervision reports, aide memoires and management letters to the Borrower, which consistently bring to the
attention of high- level officials the lack of compliance with funding obligations. On the other hand,
possible improvements in the quality of expenditures (e.g. planning, programming, road management
indicators) generally do not receive the same attention and are mostly relegated to the discussions of delays
in implementing a contract in the technical assistance component. Considering that quality issues involve
substantial changes in the institutional culture which seldom originate within the road agency, weaknesses
in those areas should be brought to the attention of major stakeholders (e.g. Ministry of Finance, Ministry
of Economic Development, users, etc) who might have an interest in securing that the increased amount of
funding proposed under a project is used wisely. Management should fully support the project team in
these endeavors.

Finally, a word or two on sector work. The "Rose Revolution" brought to power a cadre of young and
sometimes inexperienced officials determined to implement drastic changes to ensure the development of
Georgia and its integration to the world. Filling the power vacuum left by the previous administration
sometimes entailed trial and error measures that were not cost-free. Sector Policy Notes or some other
form of sector work, could be an ideal instrument to engage the new government in a meaningful dialogue



                                                    - 11 -

on sector issues and the role of a project (and future projects) in addressing them. It would provide a
strategic blue print or road map for the sector that at the very least would help avoid costly mistakes and
backtracking, and at the very best would bring forward those areas that are becoming serious bottlenecks in
institutional development (e.g. inadequate university programs, lack of career development incentives, etc).
Engaging different stakeholders in a long term vision for the sector would also serve as a cost-effective way
to raise awareness of the work ahead and contribute to generate well focused demand driven technical
assistances. The soon to be prepared Country Economic Memorandum will to a certain extent address this
issue.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following letter was received from the Borrower on May 19, 2006, providing in attachment the
comments made by SDRG. The translation of these comments are available in Annex 8. In addition, TRRC
provided a detailed contribution to the ICR which is reflected in the final ICR.




                                                   - 12 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no other partners.

10. Additional Information

An analysis of the cost per km is provided in this section. Under the rehabilitation component, cost per km
ranges from about US$100,000 to US$330,000            excluding the two pilot rural road rehabilitations
(Zestafoni-Kideti-Tabakini and Zestafoni-Bagdadi). The important spread is mainly due to the broad range



                                                   - 13 -

of road conditions encountered prior to starting the works as well as the uneven terrain surface with the
location of the sections. The type refers to main category of the works as reflected in the project
components. More information regarding the location of the sections rehabilitated or repaired is available in
the project files.
                                  Sections rehabilitated under the project

Section of                                          Cost in USD    Length in km      Cost per km            Type
Senaki-Kutaisi                                      1,165,269.04         10             116,526.90     Rehabilitation
Kutaisi-Simoneti                                    1,163,038.18         9              129,226.46     Rehabilitation
Simoneti-Zestafoni                                  1,261,871.04         10             126,187.10     Rehabilitation
Zestafoni-Rikoti                                    1,277,175.60         9              141,908.40     Rehabilitation
Rikoti-Gomi                                           758,131.78         6              126,355.30     Rehabilitation
Gomi-Tbilisi                                        1,594,122.17         9              177,124.69     Rehabilitation
Ponichala-Tsiteli Khidi                               692,603.30         6              115,433.88     Rehabilitation
Senaki-Zugdidi                                        999,132.72         10               99,913.27    Rehabilitation
Khasuri-Borjomi                                       673,591.16         3              224,530.39     Rehabilitation
Khasuri-Akhaltsikhe                                 1,109,932.37         7              158,561.77     Rehabilitation
MTSKHETA-KAZBEGI-LARSI                             4,981,429.36         35             142,326.55     Rehabilitation
Mleta-Kobi-Larsi                                    3,634,197.26         14             259,585.52     Rehabilitation
MARNEULI-SADAKHLO-ARMENIAN BORDER                   6,798,242.74        20.5            331,621.60     Rehabilitation
Zestafoni-Kideti-Tabakini                             496,223.03         9                55,135.89    Rehabilitation
Zestafoni-Bagdadi                                   1,106,835.25         10             110,683.53     Rehabilitation
Bridge over Tsivi River                             1,411,459.88      0.0862         16,374,244.55    Reconstruction
Bypass bridge on river Sondiskhevi                  1,919,070.59      0.0875         21,932,235.31    Reconstruction
POTI-TBILISI-TSITELIKI KHIDI                       4,707,951.61         78               60,358.35       Surfacing
POTI-TBILISI-TSITELI KHIDI
TBILISI-BAKURTSIKHE-LAGODEKHI
MTSKHETA-KAZGEBI-LARSI4                             5,665,413.41         78               72,633.51       Surfacing

SENAKI-LEELIDZE5
Samtredia-Kutaisi                                   1,571,805.91         17               92,459.17       Surfacing
Rikoti-Gori                                         1,664,988.69         20               83,249.43       Surfacing
Tbilisi-Rustavi                                       515,648.65         5              103,129.73        Surfacing
Algeti-Tsiteli Khidi                                1,160,588.97         11             105,508.09        Surfacing
Khasuri-Borjomi                                       964,172.28         9              107,130.25        Surfacing
Tbilisi-Marneuli-Guguti                               552,604.55         6                92,100.76       Surfacing
Choloki-Batumi                                        770,069.57         5              154,013.91        Surfacing


 Includes sections of Natakhtari-Pasanauri and Pasanauri-Mleta
 Includes sections of Senaki-Samtredia, Kutaisi-Zestaponi, Zestaponi-Rikoti, Gori-Igoeti and Igoeti-Tbilisi
 Includes sections of Zestaponi-Rikoti
 Includes sections of Tbilisi-Sagarejo, Sagarejo-Bakurtsikhe and Sagarejo-Badiauri
4 Includes sections of Natakhtari-Pasanauri and Kobi-Kazbegi
5 Includes sections of Senaki-Khobi and Khobi-Zugdidi




                                                        - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Road user costs reduced by 15%               Road user costs reduced by an estimated        Road user costs reduced by an estimated
                                             15% in the project roads                       15% in the project roads
Revised and efficient road user charges      Not achieved                                   Not achieved
Increased representation of stakeholders in  A Road Board was created                       A Road Board was created
road management
Improved resource allocation in the road     Partially achieved                             Significantly achieved
sector                                       Allocation increased                           Allocation increased threefold
Road sector performance indicators adopted Not achieved                                     Not achieved
as a management tool
Local contractors have the capacity to       Achieved for medium size contracts             Achieved for medium size contracts
participate in all SDRG civil works in a
competitive environment


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Road upgrading and bridges completed         Achieved                                       Achieved
according to an agreed schedule (km)
All (project) road works are implemented by  Achieved                                       Achieved
private contractors
Technical standards & specifications         Partially accomplished. Old standards still in Partially accomplished. Old standards still in
updated & revised                            use                                            use
New functional classification proposed       Proposal completed                             Proposal completed
Road data bank is established, functioning,  Road data bank has been established,           Road data bank has been established,
& key data collected                         functioning for international roads only       functioning for international roads only
PMS system is installed, functioning & used PMS System installed but not fully              PMS System installed but not fully
for road program preparation                 operational                                    operational
Traffic safety audit is completed & traffic  Completed                                      Completed
safety workshop held
Three-year rolling road program covering all Not achieved                                   Not achieved, but under preparation
road works is routinely prepared
Sector performance indicators are defined to Indicators defined. Not in use                 Indicators defined. Not in use
track road program & SDRG performance
New Road Fund law passed                     No longer applicable                           No longer applicable
Accounting & financial reporting systems     Partially achieved                             Partially achieved
installed & Road Fund staff trained to new
financial processes

1 End of project




                                                                - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                        Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Periodic Maintenance of the main roads (Works)               16.07          16.80           104.5
Rehabilitation of sections of the main roads (Works)         28.16          28.48           101.1
Reconstruction of two bridges (Works)                         5.15            3.51           68.2
Goods/Equipment                                               0.95            0.88           92.6
Consultant Services                                           3.93            6.32          160.8
Incremental Operating Costs                                   0.50            0.82            164
Office Equipment                                              0.24            0.28          116.7

Total Baseline Cost                                          55.00          57.09
 Physical Contingencies                                       0.00            0.00
 Price Contingencies                                          0.00            0.00
                          Total Project Costs                55.00          57.09
                   Total Financing Required                  55.00          57.09


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             36.00          13.62         0.00         0.00        49.62
                                   (25.81)          (8.91)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (34.72)
2. Goods                             0.55           0.00          0.40         0.00         0.95
                                    (0.55)          (0.00)      (0.40)         (0.00)      (0.95)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00          3.73         0.00         3.73
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (3.73)         (0.00)      (3.73)
4. Incremental Op. Costs             0.00           0.00          0.70         0.00         0.70
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.60)         (0.00)      (0.60)
   Total                             36.55          13.62         4.83         0.00        55.00
                                   (26.36)          (8.91)      (4.73)         (0.00)     (40.00)




                                                 - 16 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                43.71              5.13              0.00             0.00             48.84
                                           (30.51)            (3.60)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (34.11)
    2. Goods                                0.62               0.00              0.55             0.00              1.17
                                           (0.61)             (0.00)            (0.49)            (0.00)           (1.10)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              6.33             0.00              6.33
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.89)            (0.00)           (4.89)
    4. Incremental Op. Costs                0.00               0.00              0.82             0.00              0.82
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.64)            (0.00)           (0.64)
       Total                                44.33              5.13              7.70             0.00             57.16
                                           (31.12)            (3.60)            (6.02)            (0.00)           (40.74)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Periodic Maintenance of        11.25         4.82         0.00       11.76         5.04       0.00       104.5    104.6      0.0
the main roads
Rehabilitation of sections     19.71         8.45         0.00       19.94         8.54       0.00       101.2    101.1      0.0
of the main roads
Reconstruction of two           3.60         1.55         0.00        2.46         1.05       0.00       68.3      67.7      0.0
bridges
Goods/Equipment                 0.95         0.00         0.00        1.10         0.07       0.00       115.8     0.0       0.0
Consultant Services             3.93         0.00         0.00        4.89         1.44       0.00       124.4     0.0       0.0
Incremental Operating           0.40         0.10         0.00        0.64         0.19       0.00       160.0    190.0      0.0
Costs
Office Equipment                0.24         0.00         0.00        0.28         0.00       0.00       116.7     0.0       0.0




                                                           - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The ex-post economic evaluation has been carried out using the Highway Design Model (HDM-4). In
general, actual figures are better than the ones envisioned in the PAD. While the average cost per km has
slightly increased for the road rehabilitation contracts, the ex-post estimated average economic rate of
return is 41% (evaluated at 39% in the PAD) along with a total net present value estimated at US$60.3
million (more than double the estimation of the PAD). Regarding the two bridge reconstructions, the actual
costs were lower than the ones envisioned initially while the actual traffic is better. The analysis yielded for
both bridges economic rates of return above 50%, an outcome well in line with appraisal expectations.

                                                          Traffic       NPV in US
                                    Length IRI (mm/m)                                       EIRR in %
                                                         measured          million
                                            1999 2005 2000 2005 forecast actual forecast actual
           Roads Contracts
         Ponichala-Tsiteli Khidi      59     6.5   3.5 4276 5420        19.4     47.0       70       77
        Mtskheta-Khazbegi-Larsi      43.3   10.5   2.9   796    960     2.0       3.0       20       20
             Senaki-Zugdidi           10     6.5   3.0 1517 2293        0.7       1.8       29       30
            Choloki-Batumi            5      7.5   2.8 1747 2505        1.5       2.2       65       63
           Khashuri-Borjomi           10     8.0   3.1 1405 1950        0.6       1.7       25       25
           Marneuli-Sadakhlo         20.5   12.5   2.5 2006 2400        1.0       4.6       23       28

          Bridges Contracts
              TSIVI Bridge          0.0862 N.A     N.A 1317 2409        66%      >66%      28.7    >28.7
         SONDISKHEVI Bridge         0.0875 N.A     N.A   553    759     65%      >65%      36.3    >36.3




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                          No. of Persons and Specialty                    Performance Rating
                                              (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year       Count              Specialty                            Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               07/1999                           2     POO; EC

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               10/1999                           5     POO; EC; FA; PA; TE
               02/2000                           5     STE; STP; EC; FA; PO

 Supervision
               09/2000                            3    STS; EC; PS                              S               S
               01/2001                            3    STS; EC; PS                              S               S
               05/2001                            3    STS; EC; PS                              S               S
               11/2001                            3    STS; EC; PS                              S               S
               02/2002                            3    STS; EC; PS                              S               S
               06/2002                            3    STS; EC; PS                              S               S
               12/2002                            2    STS; EC                                  S               S
               06/2003                            2    STS; EC                                  S               S
               112003                             4    STS; TEC; EC; PS                         S               S
               03/2004                            6    TEC; STS 2; SDS; ES; PS                  S               S
               09/2004                            3    TS; STS; PS                              S               S
               01/2005                            6    STS; PS; SDC; IF; TC 2                   S               S
               07/2005                            7    STS 2; TC 2; IS; SFO; PC                 S               S

 ICR
               12/2005                           2     TC; IS

Abbreviations: EC = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst; IS = Infrastructure Specialist;
PA = Procurement Advisor; PC = Procurement Consultant; POO = Principal Operations Officer;
PO = Projects Officer; SDC = Social Development Specialist; SFO = Senior Financial Officer;
STE = Senior Transport Engineer; STP = Senior Transport Planner; STS = Senior Transport Specialist;
TC = Transport Consultant; TS = Transport Specialist; TEC = Transport Economist

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  No longer
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    supported by                              337
  Supervision                         Bank Information                               448
  ICR                                            System                                25
  Total                                                                              810
Notes:   (i) SAP no longer gives detailed breakdown for ICR
         (ii) The above figures exclude an additional $53,500.00 received from a trust fund to support
             Lending (identification/preparation plus appraisal/negotiations)
 Source: SAP report, "Project Details at a Glance", query run on April 4, 2006.




                                                       - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document, The World Bank, May 2000
Project Preparation Document, BCEOM, June 1999
Project status Reports and Mission Aide-Memoires

Various studies prepared under the project:
1.   Louis Berger Group Inc., USA (December 2003): Technical Assistance & Works Supervision
     Services to the State Department of Roads of Georgia:
     Task 2: Functional Classification of the Road Network, Final Report 2-4
     Task 3: Road Authority Legislation and Road User Charges, Final Report 3-4Louis Berger Group
     Inc., USA (December 2003): Technical
     Task 4: Road DataBank and Pavement Management System, Final Report 4-5 (Vol. 1) Louis Berger
     Group Inc., USA (December 2003):
     Task 4: Road DataBank and Pavement Management System, Final Report 4-5 (Vol. 2A)
     Task 4: Road DataBank and Pavement Management System, Final Report 4-5 (Vol. 2B)
     Task 6: Traffic Safety Program, Final Report 6-4
     Task 7: Performance Indicators, Final Report 7-3
2.   BCEOM French Engineering Consultants and SCOTT WILSON UK Consulting Engineers,
     Republic of Georgia, State Department of Roads, Transport Rehabilitation Project, April, 1988
     (Final Report):
     Vol. I - Main Report Summary
     Vol. II - Appendix (1) Road Statistics; Appendix (2) Organisation of the State Department of Roads;
     Appendix (3) Privatization in the State Department's Responsibilities
     Vol. III) - Appendix (4)Financing of Road Maintenance; Appendix (5) Three and Five Years Activity
     Programme of Road Maintenance and Construction - WB and Kuwait Fund Loans; Appendix (6)
     Traffic Counts on International and Internal State Roads
     Vol. IV - Appendix (7) Winter Maintenance of Roads in Georgia (Volumes 1 and 2)
     Vol. VI - Appendix (9) Computerization of Various SDR Activities; Appendix (10) Yearly Road
     Handbook; Appendix (11) Equipment Leasing
     Vol. VII - Appendix (12) Private Sector Construction Companies; Appendix (13) Equipment of the
     Road Sector
3.   BCEOM French Engineering Consultants, January 1999: Preparation of the Transport Sector
     Reform Project Staff Appraisal Reform Economic and Financial Analysis
4.   Kocks Consult GMBH, Consulting Engineers, Germany in association with TECNECON,
     Economic and Transport Consultants, UK; PHONIX Pavement Consultants, Denmark
     Feasibility Study for Rehabilitation of Transit Roads in Georgia Vol. 1 TRACECA Project,
     September 1997
5.   Proposed Route on Constructiion, Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of VANADZOR-TBILISI
     Highway (Republic of Armenia/Republic of Georgia)
6.   Zdenek Tomas Havelka, Consulting Engineer - Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center,
     Technical Assistance to The State Department of Roads in Preparation of the Transport Reform
     Project, concerning the Road Fund (Final Report)
7.   The World Bank Georgia Diagnostic Trade Integration Study, A Strategy for Export Development,
     June, 2003
8.   TACIS (Technical Assistance to the Commonwealth of Independent States) - Georgian-European
     Policy and Legal Advice Centre, GEORGIAN ECONOMIC TRENDS, Vol. I, 1999




                                                  - 22 -

Additional Annex 8. Letter from SDRG



                                              /Logo/
                               State Department of Roads of Georgia


29a Gagarini Str., Tbilisi 0160                            Tel: (995 32) 37-62-86, Fax: 37-62-16

18.05.06         # 01-1211838


/Stamp/

                                                                                   Mr. Roy Southworth
                                                       The World Bank Country Manager for Georgia




Mr. Southworth,


We are pleased to make comments per your request regarding ICR of the Roads Project (Credit 3357) and
present the evaluation of the State Department of Roads of Georgia (SDRG) on discharging the
responsibilities by the World Bank and Borrower as spelled out in Credit Agreement.

The work of the Manager for the World Bank Roads Project and of the supervisory missions as a
whole was of constructive character. The team and its leader were thoroughly aware of all the
details and during the implementation of the project their advice and assistance gained high
evaluation. Providing solutions to several principal issues that played an important role in
successful implementation of the Project need to be especially highlighted

Firstly, the decisive role played by the foreign company in the technical assistance consultancy
component of SDRG in respect of successfully carrying out the supervision. The critical role of
accurate implementation of this activity, their knowledge and sharing experience with the local
consultants should be underlined. Among the technical assistance consultancy components the
creation of Road Databank and HDM system, development of new road pavement standards, etc.
were of significant importance as well. These activities made the beginning of new stage in
reforming the SDRG, improving and further developing its technical capabilities.

We would like to point out the World Bank team participation in successful introduction of
technological innovations in the field of roads in Georgia. Prior to the implementation of the
Project the country had meager experience in arranging new type pavements, in producing high
quality construction materials meeting the new standards (production of so called Class A
bitumen-asphalt) and in using special technologies (recycling, surface treatment and etc). It can be



                                               - 23 -

said without any exaggeration that the implementation of the Roads Project started a completely new
stage in the road sector of Georgia and the Project gave a great impetus to introducing innovations in the
country.

The great achievement that World bank team should be credited with is the facilitation of accelerated
development of the road construction industry. In fact the implementation of the Project accelerated the
development of the industry in the country. The activities of the World Bank team and consultants in
sharing new technologies, engineering experience and transferring knowledge immediately to the road
construction industry, to the road construction companies so that they can be developed in these areas were
highly valuable and we have significant positive results in this regard.

For the Borrower the World Bank Roads Project was practically one of the most important projects. The
Government of Georgia and Parliament of Georgia have always paid a great attention to the Project. The
Government of Georgia and Parliament were regularly informed on the project implementation and some
Members of Parliament were identified to carry out the monitoring of the Project. The immediate receiver
and implementer of the Project was the State Department of Roads of Georgia. Together with the
Transport Reform and Rehabilitation Center that provided the financial and procurement
consultancy it carried out the Project. The implementation of the World Project also enabled us to
start the institutional reform of the State Department of Roads of Georgia, though this reform had
to be implemented in the difficult circumstances when major political changes were underway in
the country. However it should be mentioned that these circumstances did not hamper the project
implementation. The institutional reform of SDRG, especially the Road Fund reform did not take
place due to its abolishment and at a later stage given the significant increase in the road sector
funding and the special attention paid by the State the reforming of Road Fund under the SDRG
in order to secure the stable funding for the road sector was no longer crucial.

The Borrower, particularly the road sector state management, and the road industry at large, as it
was mentioned above - have undergone significant changes as a result of the World Bank project
implementation. First of all this pertains to the technological changes in the road construction
works, improvement of supervisory works, further improvement in producing construction
materials, the road sector development planning and improvement of long-term development
strategy, and etc.



        Sincerely,

        Head of the Department        /signed/   R. Dalakishvili




                                                   - 24 -

- 25 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 34805

                40                                                       41                                                                                     42                                                            43                                                              44                                                                45                                                             46



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G E O R G I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ROADS PROJECT
 To
Soci
  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ROAD SEGMENTS REHABILITATED:
          l                                                                                                                                                                      R U S S I A N                       F E D E R A T I O N
            l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - SURFACE TREATMENT                                                                 GLACIER AREAS
              l  l
                    l
                       l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - COMPLETE REHABILITATION
                        S1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS
                         l  l

                              lGagra                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BUILT-UP URBAN AREA                                                                    MAIN ROADS
                                l

                                 l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SELECTED CITIES                                                                        SECONDARY ROADS
                                   l   l
                                         l
                                             l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) CENTER                                              l   l   l   RAILROADS
                                    Picunda    l

                                                 l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC (ASSR) CENTERS                                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                   l  l  l  l  l
                                          Gudauta                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
43                                                                 l

                                                                      l    Suhumi                                                                                                                                 Mestia
                                                                        l  l                                                                                                                  Enguri                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  43
                                                                             l

                                                                              l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0         15          30            45         60       75 KILOMETERS
                                                                 Kvemo-Psap
                                                                          
                                                                               l

                                                                                l                                                 Tkvarceli   
                                                                                  l                                    l
                                                                                     l                               l
                                                                                                   lS1l                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To Vladikavkaz
                                                                                                         l         l
                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                 l                                                                                                 Lentehi                                               Gebi                    To Alagir
                                                                                                              ll
                                                                                                    Ocamcira
                                                                                                                 l                                                      Dzvari
                                                                                                                                                                          
                                                                                                                    l                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Larsi
                                                                                                                        l
                                                                                                                               l
                                                                                                                                   l                                  l
                                                                                                                                       Gali                                                              Cageri                                         Uravi                                                                       Kazbegi
                                                                                                                                       l                         l
                                                                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                                             l                            Calendziha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kobi
                                                                                                                                                          l                                                                                                        Oni
                                                                                                                                              l                                                                                           Cesi
                                                                                                                                                         l                                                                                                                  Kvaisi
                                                                                                                               Enguri                                                                                                                     Rioni
                                                                                                                                                                             Chorocku
                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                              l l    l  Zugdidi                                             Chenisckali         Ambrolauri
                          B         l       a          c       k                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Gudauri
                                                                                                                                              l                                                                                                                                                                                         Aragvi
                                                                                                                                                 l                                 Martvili                          Rioni                                                                       Dzava
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                    l                                                                                                                                                                               Mleta
                                                                                                                                                      l                                                                                                        Sachere
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R U S S I A N
                                                                                                                                          Hobi            l                                              Chaltubo          l
                                                                                                                                                               l                        Honi           l               l     l
                                                                                                                                                                  l                                                 l              Tkibuli                  l            Kvirilk                                                    Pasanauri
                                                                                                                                                                    l l Senaki                                                                 Ciatura
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ll         l
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kutaisi                                          l  l                                                                                                                                                                                           F E D E R A T I O N
                                                                                                                                                      l     l   l        l                                 l   l                                   l                                                 Chinvali
                                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                           l        S2                      l
                                   S         e         a                                                                                                                                              l   l
                                                                                                                                l    l                                         l                l  l         l
                                                                                                                                                                                             l                  l l
                                                                                                                                                                          Rioni   l                                   l                                                                                                                                                   Iori
                                                                                                                                                                                          l                                      Terzola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l

                                                                                                                              l                                                      l     S1                             l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                     Poti                                                  Samtredia                               Simonetil                                                                        l
                                                                                                                                                                                       l                                       l           l                                                                                                                         Tianeti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l                                                                  l
                                                                                                                                                      Lanchuti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Leningori
                                                                                                                                                               l   l                                                                     l
                                                                                                                                                                        l   l   l  l  l                                                                                                                                                  Duseti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                               l      l    l
                                                                                                                                  S2                                                               Vani                             ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Zestaponi     l    l                                                        l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l
42                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bagdati                                                S1                                                                             S3                                     Ahmeta
                                                                                                                                            l                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                        Gomi       l  l             l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l  l        l            l
                                                                                                                                         l                             Cohatauri                                                                     l           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l              l  l                     l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Haragauli                                                                               S1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              l            l  ll        Kareli     l         l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                              l      lGori             Kasp                                                                         Alazanl            Kvareli
                                                                                                                                        l                                                                                                                  l                                               l    l
                                                                                                                                           l                                                                                                                                    Hasuri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l                                                                       Telavi
                                                                                                                                                       l  l                                                                                                                                                                    l
                                                                                                                                                               l                                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l           l
                                                                                                                                                  l                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l                                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                             l                     Ozurgeti                                                                                                                                                          l                                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                  l                                                                                                                 l                                                        Mtkvari       l                                                                        l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lagodehi
                                                                                                                                                 l                                                                                                                                                                                           Mcheta                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Borjomi   l                                                                 (Kura)    l
                                                                                                                                           l                                                                                                                    l                                                                               l
                                                                                                                      Kobuleti                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l  l                                                                 l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l                                                                                                                                                             l
                                                                                                                                          l                                                                                                                                                                                                             l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    l S8  l       l
                                                                                                                                      l                                                                                                         l      l             l                                                                                               S9                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Sagaredzo                         Gurdzaani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                          l l
                                                                                                                                    l                                                                                                                                                                                                            TBILISI                                  l  l  l     l                            l                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l      l                                                                                                                      l  l         S5 l
                                                                                                                                 l                                                                          Adigeni                         l                                                                                                                                  l                         l                                                         Zagatala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l                                               l   l

                                                                                                                 Batumi                                                                 Hulo                                          l                                                                                                                                             l                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ahalcihel                                                                                                                                                                              l  l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l                                                                                                                                                                Iori            l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l        l    S5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        l                                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l                                                                                                                                                                                             l
      40                                                              41                                                        Helvacauri                          Suahevi                                                                          Aslindza                                      Calka                                                               l                                                       l     Signahi
                                                                                                                                                               Keda                                                                                                                                                     Tetri-Ckaro                              l          Rustavi                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             l            l                                                            l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l                    l                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Tsalka                                                                                                                               l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l                       l                                                             l  l
    U K R A I N E                                                      KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bolnisi                   l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S6                 Marneuli            Gardabani
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                               Dedopis-Ckaro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l          l    l      l

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l   l      l                                l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S7                         l
                                    RUSSIAN                                                                              Choroki                                                                                                                                        Ahalkalaki                                                                                        S4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dmanisi                                                              l  To
                                  FEDERATION                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l                            Gazah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ninocminda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l                        To           Mtkvari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l                      Gazah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                l

   Black      Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   l                                          (Kura)

                                                              Caspian                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l                                                                                                              Alazanl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To                                                                                                 Iori
                                      GEORGIA                                                                                                                             T U R K E Y                                                                                                                                  To Tasir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Alaverdi
                                        Tbilisi                                       TURKMENIST
                                                                   Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Leninakan                                                                                                                                                                                  41
                                            ARMENIA                                                    41
                                                    AZERBAIJAN
                                                                                                                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
             T U R K E Y                                                                        AN                  on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                                                                           A R M E N I A
                                                                                                                    judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A Z E R B A I J A N
                                                                                                                    acceptance of such boundaries.


                SYRIAN ARAB REP.        IRAQ              ISLAMIC REP. OF IRAN                                                                            42                                                                  43                                                                   44                                                                45                                                                 46

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAY 2006

