Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5990 
Operation Name 
TONGA ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY 
OPERATION 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
EASNS 
Project ID 
P121877 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Tonga 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry for Finance and Planning 
Date PID Prepared 
September 8, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
August 20, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
[October 19, 2010] 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Overall Economy:
Tonga is a small and remote island economy, consisting of 176 islands with a 
total area of 748 km
2
,
an Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of about 700,000 km
2
and a total 
population of 102,000 spread across 36 inhabited islands. There are four groups of islands 
(Tongatapu, Ha'apai, Vava'u and Niuas). The 
capital, Nuku’alofa, is located on the largest Island, 
Tongatapu.  Seventy-one percent of the population lives on Tongatapu.   
 
While external factors have resulted in an economic contraction in Tonga over the past year, the 
country remains one of the best performers among World Bank members in the Pacific in terms 
of making progress toward the MDGs.  Extreme poverty is almost non-existent, and Tonga is on 
track to meet goals to significantly reduce maternal and child mortality, achieve universal 
primary education with no disparities between boys and girls.   
 
Tonga is highly vulnerable to external economic shocks and natural disasters
.
Small size 
combined with a large distance from the nearest large market means that the country is unable to 
exploit economies of scale in production.   A narrow resource base and a small market result in a 
production structure that is highly undiversified.  Remittances account for a large share of the 
GDP.  Size and remoteness also impact the cost of key imports such as petroleum, exacerbating 
the risk to the economy from external shocks.  All these vulnerabilities have come into play in 
the last two years, taking a heavy toll on Tonga’s economy. 
 
The knock-on effects of the global economic crisis resulted in GDP contractions of 0.4 percent in 
FY2008/09 and an estimated 0.5 percent in FY2009/10 (IMF estimate). GDP growth in Tonga 
has not exceeded 2 percent in any of the last five years. Domestic political disturbances in 2006 
caused widespread damage in the capital, and GDP contracted by 1.2 percent in FY2006/07. The 
economy rebounded to grow by 2 percent the following year, leading up to the coronation of the 
new King in August 2008. However, Tonga was unable to build on this upswing as it was 
adversely impacted by the global economic crisis. In addition, the country was buffeted by two 
natural disasters, a tsunami on September 29, 2009 causing loss of life and significant material 
damage, and then a cyclone in February 2010. 
Page  2
The main impact of the GEC was on remittances which, on average, are the equivalent of 67 
percent of imports and 30 percent of GDP. As a result of the economic slowdown in the key 
remittance-sending countries of the US, NZ and Australia, remittances are projected to fall by 18 
percent in FY2009/10 compared with the previous year. This substantial decline comes on top of 
a
12.5
percent fall in remittances in FY2008/09. Tourist receipts are projected to fall by 15 
percent in FY2009/10 compared with the previous year, following a decline of 5.6 percent in 
FY2008/09. The latest data indicate a 13 percent fall in the value of exports year on year, to 
February 2010. 
 
Faced with a revenue shortfall the government imposed across the board cuts in current 
expenditure, with exceptions for health and education. A more considered approach to 
expenditure rationalization is being taken for FY2010/11, with Tonga’s Expenditure Review 
Committee consulting with individual ministries to delineate essential and non-essential 
activities, and to prioritize the former in their programs and budgets for the coming year. 
 
The outlook is for growth to recover in FY2010/11 to around 1.5 to 2 percent but downside risks 
remain. The projected recovery assumes that the construction of public infrastructure projects 
proceeds as planned, with the government being able to ensure an adequate contribution from 
domestically available inputs, mainly labor. The recovery also crucially depends on a pick-up in 
remittances and tourism revenues. In addition, it assumes a resumption of commercial bank 
lending. However, global recovery is not assured and weak economic performance in key partner 
countries would preclude the needed reversal in remittance and tourism receipts. In addition, 
risks could arise from delayed fiscal consolidation, especially if the provision of donor grants 
falls short. 
 
At the same time, Tonga is preparing for a major political and constitutional transition from a 
near-absolute monarchy under which the King appoints the Prime Minister and Cabinet, to a 
constitutional monarchy where power is exercised by an elected Government.  Elections for the 
new government will take place in November 2010.  As would be the case in any country 
undertaking a significant political change, together with the expected benefits of the change there 
is also a significant level of political uncertainty associated with the election process itself and 
the performance of a new, possibly inexperienced administration.   
 
Importance of the Energy Sector:
Energy is a fundamental building block for Tonga in its social 
and economic development and in enhancing the livelihoods of all Tongans.  It affects all 
businesses and every household.  Tonga is highly dependent on imported fuels to meet its overall 
energy requirements.  In 2000 when the last energy balance for Tonga was compiled, imported 
petroleum products accounted for about 75% of Tonga's total energy needs.  Currently, all grid-
supplied electricity, which accounts for over 98% of electricity used in Tonga, is generated using 
imported diesel fuel.  Over 95% of Tongans are connected to grid-based supply of electricity. 
Tonga's total fuel imports account for about 25% of all imports and about 10% of GDP.  Hence 
changes in the price and amount of petroleum imports have a significant impact on Tonga’s 
balance of payments situation and inflation.  In particular, sudden price shocks can be difficult to 
absorb.  Electricity generation accounts for about one third of total petroleum imported.   
 
Page  3
The oil price spike of 2008 led to the highest electricity tariffs Tonga has ever seen, with 
electricity prices peaking at over TOP1.00 per kWh (approximately 50USc/kWh). This had a 
significant negative impact on economic activity and on the quality of life for all Tongans. The 
experience highlighted the risk to Tongan electricity consumers and the economy as a whole of 
the combination of 100% dependency on imported petroleum for grid-based electricity 
generation together with essentially spot market pricing of all imported petroleum.   
 
Scenarios for future petroleum price trends indicate that on average, the price is expected to 
increase as the global financial situation normalizes.  The history of international oil prices 
demonstrates the high price volatility that characterizes this commodity.  Acknowledging the 
prospect of increasing and volatile petroleum prices, the Government recognized that the energy 
sector as currently structured and operated represents a major risk to the economy overall, and to 
the standard of living of individual Tongans.  The Government determined that it must, as a 
matter of priority, take measures to mitigate these risks in order to achieve an energy sector that 
supports, rather than limits, economic growth and improved standards of living for the people of 
Tonga.     
 
In April 2009, the Government and Development Partners embarked on a process to undertake a 
sector-wide review and develop an approach to improving the performance of the energy sector 
and to mitigating the risks.  The resulting document entitled the “
Tonga Energy Road Map 2010-
2020: Ten Y
ear Road Map to Reduce Tonga’s Vulnerability to Oil Price shocks and Achieve an 
Increase in Quality Access to Modern Energy Services in an Environmentally Sustainable 
Manner
”, or “Tonga Energy Roadmap (TERM)” addresses improvements in petroleum supply 
chain and consideration of price hedging instruments, increased efficiency both in electricity 
supply and use, development of grid-connected domestic renewable energy resources, improved 
access to quality electricity services in remote areas, reduced environmental impacts both locally 
and globally, enhanced energy security, and overall sector financial viability.  The scope includes 
policy, legal, regulatory and institutional aspects of the sector as well as investment.   
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed Tonga Energy Development Policy Program will provide budget support to reduce 
the near-term fiscal deficit.  It will also reinforce the importance of implementation of energy 
sector reforms necessary to reduce Tonga’s vulnerability to oil price rise and shocks, which 
otherwise would pose a significant risk to achieving stable growth in the medium term. 
 
The development objectives of the operation are to provide budget support to contribute to 
reducing Tonga’s fiscal deficit and to support the Government’s efforts in implementing reforms 
in the energy sector which will contribute to achieving steady and stable growth in the medium 
term. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Tonga Energy Road Map (TERM) represents the result of a year of intensive dialog with the 
Government, and consultation and coordination with energy sector development partners.  The 
World Bank played a major role in development of the TERM, from the initial conception of the 
Page  4
scope and approach, through support for and supervision of the key analytic work, managing the 
coordination of long-term energy sector development partners as well as helping to bring on 
board new players, and synthesis of the inputs into the final TERM document.  As described 
above, the proposed operation forms an integral 
part of the Bank’s overall energy sector 
engagement in Tonga. 
 
The Bank has been able to play this role for two reasons.  First, it is seen to provide valuable 
international experience in energy sector policy and development.  Second, it is viewed as an 
impartial source of guidance and funding within a field of bi-lateral players which may be 
viewed as having more complicated, political agendas. 
 
The approach and program set out in the TERM are fully in line with the institutional agenda on 
Climate Change.  The TERM integrates energy efficiency and renewable energy generation into 
the mainstream sector planning and policy framework, through the focus on reducing 
vulnerability to oil price rise and shocks as a key factor in enhancing national energy security.  
Further, the TERM explicitly recognizes the potential for climate-change related impacts on the 
sector and includes an evaluation of these risks and mitigation measures as an early step 
implementation of the TERM. 
 
Including key public financial management actions in this operation sets the stage for a deeper 
engagement in this area and signals both the importance attached to improved PFM and the 
willingness of the Bank to expand its program in these areas if requested by the new 
Government. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
5 
 Total 
5 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The proposed program is designed as a single operation providing general budget support in 
recognition of strong progress towards strengthening the energy sector and moving forward with 
key PFM reforms.  The operation would mobilize US$ 5 million in IDA Grant.  Prior actions 
have been selected on the basis of strong ownership by GoT and harmonization with other 
development partners.  The operation will support policy and institutional measures that will help 
Tonga sustain its reform momentum in the energy sector and implement recommendations from 
the 2010 Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Assessment.  The operation will also 
provide short-term fiscal relief to address the budget deficit projected for FY10/11 as key 
determinants of government revenue, particularly remittances, remain well below normal levels 
as a result of the global economic slow-down.   
 
A
close dialog will be maintained with the GoT, TPL and other development partners.  
Contributing to the energy sector dialog will be: (i) formal supervision/preparation missions 
Page  5
related to this operation; (ii) preparation activities related to the proposed SIL utilizing IDA with 
co-financing, planned for presentation to the WB Board in Q4 FY11 to support implementation 
of specific aspects of the TERM; and (iii) formal engagement with development partners 
initiated by GOT as a regular feature of TERM implementation, as specified in the TERM.  The 
Bank maintains an on-going dialog with energy sector development partners in the Pacific 
through the Energy Development Partner Working Group, chaired by the Bank with quarterly 
meetings.  This provides a regular forum for an update on the implementation of TERM 
activities financed by other development partners. 
 
For the PFM aspects of the operation, a dialog will be maintained with Ministry of Finance and 
other development partners supporting PFM reforms.  PFM specialists will visit Tonga at least 
twice during the year following Board approval.  It is anticipated that the dialog with the GOT on 
macroeconomic issues will be strengthened once the new government is in place, and this 
engagement will include working jointly with GoT and other development partners in areas of 
public financial management and public procurement.  Bank participation in the joint initiatives 
will also provide a platform for on-going supervision of the PFM aspects of this operation. 
 
The grant will be disbursed according to IDA disbursement procedures for development policy 
operations.  The full grant amount will be disbursed to the GOT Treasury upon approval of the 
project by the WB Board and evidence of completion of the specified prior actions.  There is no 
procurement to be undertaken as part of this program.  Therefore no procurement assessment and 
no procurement plan are needed. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits:
The budget support will contribute to providing the resources necessary to implement 
the FY10/11 budget.  The general public will benefit from the operation. Timely budget support 
provided through this operation will contribute to the stable provision of government services 
and will help avoid emergency expenditure savings measures caused by budget shortfall, such as 
occurred at the end of FY09/10.  
 
Energy consumers (households and businesses) and the public will benefit from the operation.  
Adoption of the TERM and implementation of a formal arrangement for coordination and 
oversight across the energy sector will set in motion actions to improve the efficiency, cost-
effectiveness and transparency of the sector institutions, investments and operation.  By signaling 
that the Bank-
supported “Tonga Energy Road Map Project” currently under preparation is 
planned to provide support for implementation of key “Phase 0” TERM activities aimed at 
achieving the medium term energy sector outcomes for the proposed operation, and that any 
subsequent budget support operation would include a focus on continued implementation of the 
energy sector reforms discussed in this Program Document, the operation reinforces the 
importance of TERM implementation.  TERM implementation will lead to more efficient use 
and targeting of available resources which will in turn lead to lower, more stable energy bills, 
improved quality of electricity service and improved access to affordable electricity compared to 
a
situation without the implementation of the TERM.   
 
Page  6
Benefits with respect to the energy sector aspects also extend beyond Tonga.  The process of 
developing the TERM is widely seen in the region as a concrete example of a new paradigm for 
Government leadership and development partner coordination to undertake sensible planning 
followed by coordinated implementation.  It is anticipated that other countries in the region will 
follow this example, extending the benefits of the Tonga work to other Pacific Island countries. 
 
Risks:  The main risks and their associated risk mitigations measures are the following: 
 
The need to address immediate budget shortfalls could distract the new administration from 
focusing on the implementation of critical energy sector reforms
,
as per the TERM, needed to 
support medium term economic stability and growth.  Budget pressures could also result in 
insufficient resources being available for the GoT’s role in implementation of the TERM.  The 
mitigation measure is to contribute, along with other development partners, to reducing the 
budget gap through this proposed budget support operation.   
 
A
new, possibly inexperienced administration may take some time to appreciate the importance 
of focusing on energy sector reforms
,
within the wide scope of demands on a new 
administration, especially if oil prices do not rise significantly in the coming months.  This could 
result in a loss of momentum, or actions at odds with the TERM, which could undermine the 
progress and credibility to date.  The risk will be mitigated to some extent  by clear signaling, in 
this document and as part of the preparation of the energy sector SIL which will be appraised 
after the new administration takes office, that progress on energy sector reform will be an 
important component of the overall country dialog going forward, as well as a pre-requisite for 
further support in the energy sector.  A further mitigation measure is the strong development 
partner coordination around the development of the TERM and the commitment provide support 
in line with implementation of the TERM.  The benefits and importance of maintain the focus on 
energy sector reforms and on adhering to the principles set out in the TERM will be emphasized 
not only by the Bank, but by a wide range of other development partners. 
 
Natural Disasters and Climate Change negatively impact the expected benefits associated with 
implementation of the planned energy sector reforms.
Two approaches to mitigating this risk are 
built into the TERM.  First, design of new investments will routinely take into account Tonga’s 
vulnerability to natural disasters and specify equipment and designs accordingly.  Second, one of 
the Phase 0 activities of the TERM is “Analysis of environmental change impact on Tonga to 
identify any risks to long term safety and security of energy infrastructure”.  The findings and 
recommendations of this study will inform subsequent implementation of the TERM. 
 
Progress on Public Financial Management reforms could stall if the new administration focuses 
on other priorities
.
The primary mitigation measure is the planned joint development partner 
efforts to support the GoT in implementing improvements in the areas of public expenditure and 
financial management.  The Bank intends to work closely with other development partners to 
provide the support and emphasis necessary to maintain the GOT’s focus and capacity to take 
action on PEFM reforms.   
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Page  7
Implementation of the TERM supported by this DPO will have significant, direct positive social 
impacts including:  
 
·
reducing household expenditure on electricity services through reduced cost of supply 
passed on to consumers and improved end-use efficiency to reduce the amount of 
electricity required to achieve a given level of electricity services;  
 
·
reducing the volatility of electricity prices so that households can budget sensibly for the 
cost of electricity.   
 
·
improved access to affordable, quality electricity services in remote areas.  The Off-Grid 
Initiative which is part of the TERM will provide remote communities with access to 
electricity options from renewable sources that are sustainable and also provide for their 
varied power needs.  The program aims to provide both enhanced quality of life and offer 
the potential to increase economic activity of the outer islands communities through a 
novel “Tiered Approach”
.
The approach takes into account the wide variation of energy 
demand and development opportunities as well as the economic abilities throughout the 
islands and to match the supply concepts to match energy demands.   
 
The TERM includes principles of environmental and social impact assessment as an integral part 
of new energy sector investments.  Any potentially negative social impacts will be identified and 
plans developed to avoid or mitigate possible negative consequences. 
 
Consultation and Participation
Information on development of the TERM has been made available to the public throughout the 
process via press reports, televised and radio presentation and question and answer sessions with 
reporters.  The Tonga Energy Road Map was set up in January 2010.  All draft and final 
technical reports are posted as well as minutes of the TERM Committee.  While the level of 
outreach and information available to the public has been relatively high during the process to 
date, more focus on soliciting feedback and public participation would strengthen the TERM 
implementation.  The Government intends to establish a program of public communication and 
consultation with citizens and relevant public stakeholders.  
 
As described below, any energy investments under the TERM will be subject to an 
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment which would include consultations with any 
project-affected people as and when specific investments are contemplated.  
 
Environmental Aspects
The proposed operation is not expected to have any significant negative effects, and the overall 
effect on the environment, forests or other natural resources is expected to be positive.  The 
positive effects are expected to stem from the energy sector reforms.  The public sector 
management reform supported under the operation is unlikely to have any environmental effects. 
 
Page  8
Any infrastructure development potential could lead to negative environmental effects if not 
designed and managed with environmental sustainability as a key consideration.  However, in 
the case of the energy sector development that could take place as the TERM is implemented, a 
number of mitigation measures are built into the TERM approach to assure that any potential 
environmental issues are fully assessed and mitigated to avoid any negative effects..   
 
First, the key technical reports feeding into the TERM 
–
those on renewable energy options for 
grid supply and the petroleum sector – both included specific analysis on potential environmental 
impacts associated with action or inaction on the part of the Government in implementing the 
recommended actions.  For renewable energy all options were first screened for any 
environmental or social “showstoppers”, i.e. any significant negative impact that could not be 
avoided or mitigated.  If a showstopper were identified the option was not included in further 
assessment.  Hence any potentially negative environmental impacts from the RE investments 
included in the TERM can be mitigated.  Many of the RE options will have a significant positive 
environmental impact through displacement of diesel-based electricity generation with clean 
technologies such as solar PV.  Environmental sustainability is an integral part of the Tonga 
Energy Road Map and one of the key principles as discussed above.  The TERM principle on 
Environmental Sustainability requires that any new energy investments under the TERM will be 
subject to Environmental and Social Impact Assessment and Mitigation Plans as necessary as per 
international practice.  By building the process of routinely undertaking environmental impact 
assessment and implementing mitigation plans for new energy investments under the TERM, the 
practice in the sector could become an example for other infrastructure sectors – another 
potentially very positive effect of implementation of the TERM.   
 
One of the recommendations from the petroleum sector studies was the need for increased 
attention to environmental and safety aspects of petroleum storage.  TERM implementation will 
address the recommendations from the petroleum studies, including those on environmental and 
safety issues.  This would have a significant positive environmental effect. 
 
In addition, specific activities to be undertaken in Phase 0 of the TERM implementation include: 
 
·
Environmental screening of the TERM to identify environmental considerations of the 
planned activities in the TERM;  
 
·
Analysis of environmental change impact on Tonga to identify any risks to long term 
safety and security of energy infrastructure.  
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Wendy Hughes 
Title: Senior Energy Specialist 
Tel: 61 2 9235 6543 
Fax:  61 2 9223 9903 
Email: whughes@worldbank.org 
Location: Sydney, Australia (IBRD) 
 
Page  9
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
