Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5840 
Operation Name 
Tonga Energy Development Policy Project 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General energy sector (70%);Public administration- Energy and 
mining (30%) 
Project ID 
P121877 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF TONGA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
June 16, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
August 15,2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
September 25, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Overall Economy
.
Tonga is a small and remote island economy, consisting of 176 islands with a total 
area of 748 km
2
,
an Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of about 700,000 km
2
and a total population of 
102,000 spread across 36 inhabited islands. There are four groups of islands (Tongatapu, Ha'apai, 
Vava'u and Niuas). The capital, Nuku’alofa, is located on the largest Island, Tongatapu.  Seventy-one 
percent of the population lives on Tongatapu.   
 
While external factors have resulted in an economic contraction in Tonga over the past year, the country 
remains one of the best performers among World Bank members in the Pacific in terms of making 
progress toward the MDGs.  Extreme poverty is almost non-existent, and Tonga is on track to meet 
goals to significantly reduce maternal and child mortality, achieve universal primary education with no 
disparities between boys and girls.   
 
Tonga is highly vulnerable to external economic shocks and natural disasters
.
Small size combined with 
a
large distance from the nearest large market means that the country is unable to exploit economies of 
scale in production.   A narrow resource base and a small market result in a production structure that is 
highly undiversified.  Remittances account for a large share of the GDP.  Size and remoteness also 
impact the cost of key imports such as petroleum, exacerbating the risk to the economy from external 
shocks.  All these vulnerabilities have come into play in the last two years, taking a heavy toll on 
Tonga’s economy. 
 
The knock-on effects of the Global Economic Crisis (GEC) resulted in GDP contractions of -0.4 percent 
in FY2008/09 and a projected -0.5 percent in FY2009/10. The main impact of the GEC was on 
remittances which, on average, are the equivalent of 67 percent of imports and 30 percent of GDP. As a 
result of the economic slowdown in the key remittance-sending countries of US, NZ and Australia, 
remittances are projected to fall by 18 percent in FY2009/10 compared with the previous year. Tourist 
arrivals fell by 15 percent and goods exports by 5.5 percent. 
 
Faced with a revenue shortfall the government imposed across the board cuts in current expenditure, 
with exceptions for health and education. A more considered approach to expenditure rationalization is 
Page  2
being taken for FY2010/11, 
with Tonga’s Expenditure Review Committee consulting with individual 
ministries to delineate essential and non-essential activities, and to prioritize the former in their 
programs and budgets for the coming year. 
 
The outlook is for growth to recover in FY2010/11 to around 1.5 to 2 percent but downside risks remain. 
The recovery crucially depends on a pick-up in remittances and tourism revenues. However, global 
recovery is not assured and weak economic performance in key partner countries would preclude the 
needed reversal in remittance and tourism receipts. In addition, risks could arise from delayed fiscal 
consolidation, especially if the provision of donor grants falls short. 
 
At the same time, Tonga is preparing for a major political and constitutional transition.  Elections for the 
new government will take place in November 2010.  As would be the case in any country undertaking a 
significant political change, together with the expected benefits of the change there is also a significant 
level of political uncertainty associated with the election process itself and the performance of a new, 
possibly inexperienced administration. 
 
Importance of the Energy Sector
.
Energy is a fundamental building block for Tonga in its social and 
economic development and in enhancing the livelihoods of all Tongans.  It affects all businesses and 
every household.  Tonga is highly dependent on imported fuels to meet its overall energy requirements.  
In 2000 when the last energy balance for Tonga was compiled, imported petroleum products accounted 
for about 75% of Tonga's total energy needs.  Currently, all grid-supplied electricity, which accounts for 
over 98% of electricity used in Tonga, is generated using imported diesel fuel.  Over 95% of Tongans 
are connected to grid-based supply of electricity. Tonga's total fuel imports account for about 25% of all 
imports and about 10% of GDP.  Hence changes in the price and amount of petroleum imports have a 
significant impact on Tonga’s balance of payments situation and inflation.  In particular, sudden price 
shocks can be difficult to absorb.  Electricity generation accounts for about one third of total petroleum 
imported.   
 
The oil price spike of 2008 led to the highest electricity tariffs Tonga has ever seen, with electricity 
prices peaking at over TOP1.00 per kWh (approximately 50USc/kWh). This had a significant negative 
impact on economic activity and on the quality of life for all Tongans. The experience highlighted the 
risk to Tongan electricity consumers and the economy as a whole of the combination of 100% 
dependency on imported petroleum for grid-based electricity generation together with essentially spot 
market pricing of all imported petroleum.   
 
Scenarios for future petroleum price trends indicate that on average, the price is expected to increase as 
the global financial situation normalizes.  The history of international oil prices demonstrates the high 
price volatility that characterizes this commodity.  Acknowledging the prospect of increasing and 
volatile petroleum prices, the Government recognized that the energy sector as currently structured and 
operated represents a major risk to the economy overall, and to the standard of living of individual 
Tongans.  The Government determined that it must, as a matter of priority, take measures to mitigate 
these risks in order to achieve an energy sector that supports, rather than limits, economic growth and 
improved standards of living for the people of Tonga.     
 
In April 2009, the Government and Development Partners embarked on a process to undertake a sector-
wide review and develop an approach to improving the performance of the energy sector and to 
mitigating the risks.  The resulting document entitled the “
Tonga Energy Road Map 2010-2020: Ten 
Year Road Map to Reduce Tonga’s Vulnerability to Oil Price shocks and Achieve an Increase in Quality 
Access to Modern Energy Services in an Environmentally Sustainable Manner
”, or “Tonga Energy 
Roadmap (TERM)” addresses improvements in petroleum supply chain and consideration of price 
Page  3
hedging instruments, increased efficiency both in electricity supply and use, development of grid-
connected domestic renewable energy resources, improved access to quality electricity services in 
remote areas, reduced environmental impacts both locally and globally, enhanced energy security, and 
overall sector financial viability.  The scope includes policy, legal, regulatory and institutional aspects of 
the sector as well as investment.   
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed Tonga Energy Development Policy Program is designed to support implementation of 
energy sector reform in Tonga, and to contribute to reducing medium term fiscal deficits which 
otherwise could impede progress on energy sector reform. 
 
The development objective is to support the implementation of actions
 to reduce Tonga’s vulnerability 
to oil price rise and price shocks and achieve an increase in safe, quality access to electricity services in 
an environmentally and financially sustainable manner, as set out in the Tonga Energy Roadmap. 
 
Beneficiaries.
Energy consumers (households and businesses) and the public are the beneficiaries of the 
project.  Energy consumers will benefit from lower, more stable energy bills, improved quality of 
electricity service and improved access to affordable electricity compared to a situation without the 
project-supported implementation of the Tonga Energy Roadmap.  As part of the overall reforms 
included in the TERM, improvements will be made in the basic infrastructure necessary to deliver 
reliable electricity services.  This will include upgrading of sub-standard distribution networks to ensure 
the infrastructure meets international safety standards.  Local populations will benefit from reduced local 
pollution as generation of electricity from renewable energy sources displaces diesel-fired generation.  
The international community will benefit from reduced GHG emissions.  Reducing the vulnerability of 
the economy to oil price rises and shocks will improve the macroeconomic stability which will have 
positive implications for the general public.  Steps toward improving public financial management will 
also benefit the overall public though increased effectiveness of public sector funds. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Tonga Energy Roadmap (TERM) represents the result of a year of intensive dialog with the 
Government, and consultation and coordination with energy sector development partners.  The World 
Bank played a major role in development of the TERM, from the initial conception of the scope and 
approach, through support for and supervision of the key analytic work, managing the coordination of 
long-term energy sector development partners as well as helping to bring on board new players, and 
synthesis of the inputs into the final TERM document.   
 
The Bank has been able to play this role for two reasons.  First, it is seen to provide valuable 
international experience in energy sector policy and development.  Second, it is viewed as an impartial 
source of guidance and funding within a field of bi-lateral players which may be viewed as having more 
complicated agendas. 
 
The approach and program set out in the TERM are fully in line with the institutional agenda on Climate 
Change.  The TERM integrates energy efficiency and renewable energy generation into the mainstream 
sector planning and policy framework, through the focus on reducing vulnerability to oil price rise and 
shocks as a key factor in enhancing national energy security.  Further, the TERM explicitly recognizes 
the potential for climate-change related impacts on the sector and includes an evaluation of these risks 
and mitigation measures as an early step implementation of the TERM. 
 
Page  4
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
5 
Total 5 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The proposed program is designed as a single operation providing general budget support in recognition 
of strong progress towards strengthening the energy sector and moving forward with key PFM reforms.  
The operation would mobilize US$ 5 million in IDA Grant.  Prior actions have been selected on the 
basis of strong ownership by GoT and harmonization with other development partners.   
 
The grant will be disbursed according to IDA disbursement procedures for development policy 
operations.  The full grant amount will be disbursed to the GOT Treasury upon approval of the project 
by the WB Board and evidence of completion of the specified prior actions.  There is no procurement to 
be undertaken as part of this program.  Therefore no procurement assessment and no procurement plan 
are needed. 
 
6. Risks 
 
A
significant risk for energy sector reform is that the need to address immediate budget shortfalls could 
distract the new administration from focusing on the implementation of critical reforms needed to 
support medium term economic stability and growth, of which the energy sector reforms set out in the 
TERM will be a key component.  Budget pressures could also result in insufficient resources being 
available for the GoT’s role in implementation of the TERM.  This risk is recognized as a core driver of 
this DPO series.  The mitigation measure is to contribute, along with other development partners, to 
reducing the budget gap through budget support and to ensure that sufficient resources are allocated in 
the FY10/11 budget to allow GoT to undertake institutional and key technical assistance activities 
without delay.   
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Implementation of the TERM supported by this DPO series will have significant, direct positive social 
and environmental impacts. 
Environmental and Social sustainability is a key principle of the TERM.  It encompasses both 
minimizing local negative social and physical environmental impacts of the energy sector, as well as 
aligning with global goals with respect to minimizing impact on climate change where possible.  New 
energy investments under the TERM would be subject to Environmental and Social Impact Assessments 
and Mitigation Plans as necessary, as per international practice. Investments that have major negative 
environmental or social impacts or constraints that cannot be mitigated or solved will be avoided.  As 
one of the group of countries which has contributed least to global climate change, yet stands to be 
Page  5
severely impacted, Tonga is committed to setting an example for larger countries with respect to 
responsibly and sustainably reducing GHG emissions.  Social sustainability also incorporates an element 
of equity.  Hence the scope of the TERM includes the provision of sustainable, affordable electricity 
supply that meets the needs of people living in remote areas. 
 
Positive social impacts from implementation of the TERM include: 
·
reducing household expenditure on electricity services through reduced cost of supply passed on 
to consumers and improved end-use efficiency to reduce the amount of electricity required to 
achieve a given level of electricity services;  
·
reducing the volatility of electricity prices so that households can budget sensibly for the cost of 
electricity.   
·
improved access to affordable, quality electricity services in remote areas.  The Off-Grid 
Initiative which is part of the TERM will provide remote communities with access to electricity 
options from renewable sources that are sustainable and also provide for their varied power 
needs.  The program aims to provide both enhanced quality of life and offer the potential to 
increase economic activity of the outer islands communities through a novel “Tiered Approach”
.
The approach takes into account the wide variation of energy demand and development 
opportunities as well as the economic abilities throughout the islands and to match the supply 
concepts to match energy demands.   
 
Specific activities identified to take place early in the TERM implementation include: 
·
Environmental screening of the TERM to identify environmental considerations of the planned 
activities in the TERM;  
·
Analysis of environmental change impact on Tonga to identify any risks to long term safety and 
security of energy infrastructure. 
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Wendy Hughes 
Title: Senior Energy Specialist 
Tel: 61 2 9235 6543 
Fax:  61 2 9223 9903 
Email: whughes@worldbank.org 
Location: Sydney, Australia (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Page  6
