                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR2806



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IBRD-77380)

                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 48 MILLION


                                     TO THE

             KAZAKHSTAN ELECTRICITY GRID OPERATING COMPANY

            WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN

                                      FOR A

                  MOINAK ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION PROJECT




                                  October 30, 2013




Sustainable Development Unit
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2013)

       Currency Unit=Kazakhstani Tenge (KZT)
                 1 KZT = US$ 0.01
               US$ 1.00 = KZT153.56

                   FISCAL YEAR
               January 1 – December 31


        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARNM          Agency for Regulation of Natural Monopolies
CPS           Country Partnership Strategy
EIRR          Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
FIRR          Financial Internal Rate of Return
FM            Financial Management
GHG           Greenhouse Gases
GOK           Government of Kazakhstan
GWh           Gigawatt Hours
KEGOC         Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Company
kWh           Kilowatt Hours
LAP           Land Acquisition Plan
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MHPP          Moinak Hydroelectric Power Plant
MW            Megawatts
NGO           Non-government Organization
OHTL          Overhead Transmission Line
OSY           Outdoor Switchyard
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PDO           Project Development Objective
PMU           Project Management Unit
PP            Procurement Plan
REK           Regional Energy Distribution Company
SS            Sub-Station


Vice President:              Laura Tuck
Country Director:            Saroj Kumar Jha
Sector Manager:              Ranjit J. Lamech
Project Team Leader:         Mirlan Aldayarov
ICR TTL                      Joseph Melitauri
ICR Author:                  Richard Berney
                                               KAZAKHSTAN
                                     Moinak Electricity Transmission Project


CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 13
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 14
  6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 17
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 21
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 25
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results .................................................................................. 27
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 28
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 29
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 33
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 34
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                Kazakhstan Moinak
Country:            Kazakhstan            Project Name:         Electricity Transmission
                                                                Project
Project ID:         P114766               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-77380
ICR Date:           10/30/2013            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                KEGOC (KAZAKH
Lending Instrument: SIL                   Borrower:             ELETR.GRID OPERATING
                                                                COMP)
Original Total
                      USD 48.00M          Disbursed Amount:     USD 44.73M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:       USD 44.73M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Company (KEGOC)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                      Revised / Actual
    Process            Date          Process          Original Date
                                                                          Date(s)
Concept
                   11/10/2008    Effectiveness:                          01/27/2010
Review:
Appraisal:         05/13/2009    Restructuring(s):                       12/11/2012
                                 Mid-term
Approval:          09/15/2009                          06/30/2011        05/10/2011
                                 Review:
                                 Closing:              12/31/2012        04/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                 Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:              Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                     Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank               Ratings          Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:   Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
Quality of          Moderately         Implementing
                                                           Satisfactory
Supervision:        Satisfactory       Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank        Moderately         Overall Borrower
                                                           Satisfactory
Performance:        Satisfactory       Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
      Implementation
                               Indicators QAG Assessments (if any)      Rating
        Performance
 Potential Problem Project at
                              No           Quality at Entry (QEA): None
any time (Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any time               Quality of Supervision
                              No                                   None
(Yes/No):                                  (QSA):
 DO rating before
                              Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                       Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Public administration- Energy and mining                  5                5
Transmission and Distribution of Electricity             95               95




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector
                                                         100                   100
development

E. Bank Staff
      Positions                    At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:        Laura Tuck                    Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:      Saroj Kumar Jha               Motoo Konishi
Sector Manager:        Ranjit J. Lamech              Ranjit J. Lamech
Project Team Leader:   Mirlan Aldayarov              Istvan Dobozi
ICR Team Leader:       Joseph Melitauri
ICR Primary Author:    Richard L. Berney


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to increase and improve the supply of electricity to
business enterprises and households in southern Kazakhstan in an economically and
environmentally sustainable manner.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)


(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                          Original Target Formally         Actual Value
                                           Values (from      Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                             approval        Target       Completion or
                                            documents)       Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Partial reduction of power deficit in the southern region of Kazakhstan
                                         Additional
Value                                    average                        Target achieved.
                Winter power deficit
quantitative or                          generation of                  Additional 300
                was 865 MW
Qualitative)                             1,027 GWh/year                 MW is available.
                                         (or 300 MW)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                 04/30/2013                     04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved - 100%
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Reduction of load shedding in the Almaty power region
                                         Additional 300
                                         MW of peak                     Target achieved.
Value
                230 MW (2008-2009 capacity                              No
quantitative or
                winter season)           available to                   load shedding in
Qualitative)
                                         reduce load                    Almaty region.
                                         shedding to zero
Date achieved 12/31/2007                 04/30/2013                     04/30/2013
Comments
                Achieved - 100%, (Completion of the second North-South Interconnector
(incl. %
                contributed to elimination of load shedding)
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Reduction in CO2 emissions (in mln. metric tons)
                                         Estimated 1.2 m
                Baseline scenario                                       Estimated 1.2 m
Value                                    tons
                estimates emission of                                   tons
quantitative or                          of CO2
                1.20 m tons of CO2                                      of CO2 emissions
Qualitative)                             emissions
                without the project.                                    avoided.
                                         avoided.
Date achieved 12/31/2007                 04/30/2013                     04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved - 100%
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Transmission lines constructed and commissioned
Value
                                         325.18 km of                   325.18 km of
quantitative or No line constructed.
                                         lines constructed              lines constructed
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                 12/07/2012                      04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved - 100%
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Additional installed peak capacity in the southern region of Kazakhstan
                                                                         Moinak HPP is
                                         Moinak HPP
Value                                                                    commissioned
                                         Switchyard
quantitative or No plant commissioned                                    with
                                         complete and
Qualitative)                                                             two 150MW
                                         commissioned
                                                                         units.
Date achieved 12/31/2007                 04/30/2013                      04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved - 100%
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Modernization of substations
Value                                    Substation                      Substation
                No substation
quantitative or                          modernized and                  modernized and
                modernization
Qualitative)                             commissioned                    commissioned
Date achieved 12/31/2007                 04/30/2013                      04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved - 100%
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Reduction in average wholesale price of electricity
Value                                    Moinak power                    Moinak power
                Maximum spot market
quantitative or                          available at less               available at less
                price 6.6 KZT/kWh
Qualitative)                             than spot price                 than spot price
Date achieved 12/31/2008                 04/30/2013                      04/30/2013
                Indicator dropped, as introduction of administrative price caps on groups
Comments
                of generators and the reduction of turnover on the spot market made the
(incl. %
                indicator irrelevant. However, Moinak power was available at less than
achievement)
                spot price.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                         Original Target Formally         Actual Value
                                          Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                            approval         Target       Completion or
                                           documents)        Values       Target Years
                Turnkey contracts for transmission lines and substations awarded in
Indicator 1 :
                accordance with procurement plan
                                                                        Target achieved.
Value                                                                   All
                                        Contracts
(quantitative No contracts awarded                                      contracts have
                                        implemented
or Qualitative)                                                         been concluded
                                                                        and fully
                                                                     implemented
Date achieved 12/31/2007               04/30/2013                    04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved - 100%
achievement)
                Manufacturing and delivery of equipment in accordance with Procurement
Indicator 2 :
                Plan (PP)
Value
                No equipment           Equipment                     Equipment
(quantitative
                manufactured           delivered on time             delivered on time
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007               04/30/2013                    04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved - 100%
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Installation and commissioning proceeds according to PP schedule
Value                                                                Installation and
                Installation has not   Installation
(quantitative                                                        commissioning
                commenced              completed
or Qualitative)                                                      completed
Date achieved 12/31/2007               04/30/2013                    04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved - 100%
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Tender documents completed in accordance with PP
Value                                  Tender
                No tender documents
(quantitative                          documents                     Tender completed
                exist
or Qualitative)                        completed
Date achieved 12/31/2007               04/30/2013                    04/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved - 100%
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                        Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                      IP             Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                    (USD millions)
  1   06/11/2010         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 0.00
  2   12/17/2010         Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 0.30
  3   06/27/2011         Satisfactory            Satisfactory               14.86
  4   03/30/2012         Satisfactory            Satisfactory               31.37
  5   02/03/2013         Satisfactory            Satisfactory               43.15
  6   04/28/2013         Satisfactory            Satisfactory               43.15
H. Restructuring (if any)
                         ISR Ratings    Amount
                Board        at       Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring
               Approved Restructuring Restructuring
   Date(s)                                            & Key Changes Made
              PDO Change                 in USD
                          DO     IP
                                        millions
                                                    To complete testing of
                                                    MHPP the closing date was
 12/11/2012       N        S      S        43.00 extended by 4 months from
                                                    December 31, 2012 to
                                                    August 31, 2013.

I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At appraisal in 2008, Kazakhstan enjoyed strong economic performance as the real Gross
Domestic Product grew at an average rate of 10 percent between 2000 and 2007. While the
Government of Kazakhstan (GOK) had made diversification of the economy a development
priority, economic output continued to be highly dependent on the exploitation of natural
resources, with minerals and petroleum accounting for 39 percent of GDP and 73 percent of
exports in 2007. The country’s vigorous economic growth and increasing diversification of the
economic base had resulted in a 6 percent average growth in demand for electricity from 2000 to
2007. In the Southern regions of the country, where economic growth was particularly strong,
electricity demand grew by 8 percent per year over the same period.

At the time of project design in 2007, the Southern region’s supply-demand power deficit was
865 MW - about half of its consumption. The deficit was met largely by power transmitted from
the North. In the winter period of maximum electricity loads, the deficit could not be fully met,
even when the costly output of the Zhambyl plant, located in the South, was operational, so load
shedding became necessary. Electricity demand in the South was projected to continue to increase
by nearly 6 percent per year which, barring new generation and transmission investments, would
have quadrupled the region’s projected supply-demand power deficit by 2020.

One of the key pillars of the GOK’s strategy was the support of infrastructure investments needed
to meet the needs of its rapidly expanding economy. To this end, the GOK had invested
significant resources in modernizing and expanding the power sector. As part of this expansion
program it planned to build a 300 MW hydropower plant in the South of Kazakhstan to reduce
the constraints on power supply in this rapidly growing region. The Moinak transmission project
supported evacuation of power from this hydropower plant.

Three-fourths of Kazakhstan’s generation capacity was in the Northern part of the country where
its low-cost coal-fired plants were located. Generation facilities in the South were limited to small
hydro, combined heat and power plants, and one high-cost oil-fired plant at Zhambyl. The 300
MW Moinak Hydroelectric Power Plant (MHPP) was the only new significant generation
investment planned for the South.

Sector Institutions

The GOK began reforming the power sector in 1996, with a view to introduce extensive private
participation within a competitive power market. Most of the large thermal generation plants were
sold to foreign strategic and local investors. The large hydropower plants were given on a
concession basis to private investors. Most of the Regional Electricity Distribution Companies
(REKs) were also privatized. The latter also owned a large number of smaller power plants and
combined heat and power plants, most of which were largely outdated and highly inefficient.

The Kazakhstan Electricity Grid Operating Company (KEGOC) was formed as a state-owned
entity in 1997. It operated all transmission assets at the 220, 500 and 1,150 kV levels of national
and interregional significance and was responsible for national dispatch control and international
connections. Its system consisted of: (i) the Northern grid connected to the Russian power
system; (ii) the Southern grid connected to the Northern grid and to the Central Asian power grid
through single circuit 500 kV lines; and (iii) the Western grid comprised of two largely isolated
subsystems that imported power from Russia to supplement local generation.

                                                 1
The wholesale electricity market was largely liberalized and operated mainly on the basis of
bilateral direct sale contracts between generators and large consumers, including regional energy
supply organizations. A liquid spot market accounted for about 20 percent of the total wholesale
turnover in 2008. A real-time balancing market was scheduled to operate on a trial basis from
January 2008. A lack of flexible load-following capacity and inadequate automated metering and
communication devices has delayed its full implementation.

Sector Regulation

The transmission company, KEGOC, was regulated by the Agency for Regulation of Natural
Monopolies (ARNM) under the Law on Natural Monopolies. This law ensured full recovery of
justifiable costs, including the cost of new investments. KEGOC’s tariffs were approved by
ARNM on a cost-plus basis and included a 10 percent regulated rate of return. There is a Grid
Code in place with a set of rules governing non-discriminatory third-party access to the
transmission and distribution networks. At the national level, KEGOC has implemented these
rules on its high voltage transmission system. At the regional level, the largely vertically REKs
have been more lax in the implementation of third-party access.

Project Rationale

The project financed the transmission lines as well as the modernization and extension of the two
transmission substations required to evacuate electricity from the MHPP, and transmit it to the
Southern regional network. The MHPP was a key element in the GOK’s strategy to address peak
power shortages in the South. At the time of appraisal, the MHPP was under construction and
scheduled to start operation by the end of 2012. By providing an additional power source within
the Southern regional grid, MHPP would also strengthen the grid by taking pressure off the
North-South interconnector at times of excessive load.

The project was consistent with the objectives of the Country Partnership Strategy Paper of
September 8, 2004, which was updated in the Country Partnership Strategy Paper Progress
Report of May 1, 2008. Kazakhstan’s development agenda was focused on achieving
international standards for public enterprises and increasing the competitiveness of the country’s
tradable non-oil sectors.

From the broader development perspective, the continued development of reliable and cost-
effective electricity supply was fundamental to both social and economic development of
Southern Kazakhstan. As an essential integrated component of the MHPP, this transmission
operation contributes to these objectives by: (i) providing clean and low-cost peak energy; (ii)
mitigating a binding energy supply constraint to continued economic growth in the region; and
(iii) increasing the region’s competitiveness in terms of industrial and commercial development
with related employment benefits.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The primary project objective, as presented in both the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and
the Loan Agreement, was “to increase and improve the supply of electricity to business
enterprises and households in Southern Kazakhstan in an economically and environmentally
sustainable manner.”

Completion of the integrated project (MHPP and transmission) was expected to have the
following outcomes:

                                                2
   Increase in the amount of power available to customers in the Southern region with a
    consequent reduction in load shedding.
   Improved quality and reliability of electricity supply.
   Lower average cost of generation owing to the introduction of additional hydroelectric power
    into the system.
   Reduced Greenhouse Gases (GHG) emissions as a result of displacement of coal/oil-based
    thermal generation.


The specific baseline and target values of the monitoring indicators as in the PAD were as
follows:
    Project Outcome              Baseline                Target (2013)              Status at ICR
        Indicators
Partial reduction of          865 MW Deficit      Additional        average      Achieved, additional
power deficit in the              (2007)          generation    of    1,027      300 MW is available
Southern region of                                GWh/year (or 300 MW)           from Moinak HPP at
Kazakhstan                                                                       peak
Reduction       of   load    230 MW (2008-09      Additional 300 MW of peak      MHPP         provided
shedding in the Almaty         winter season)     capacity available to reduce   additional 300 MW
power region                                      load shedding to zero          capacity
Reduction in average          Maximum spot        MHPP power available at        Indicator dropped as
wholesale      price   of    market price 6.6     less than spot maximum price   irrelevant.    MHPP
electricity                  KZT/kWh (2008)                                      power is produced at
                                                                                 a lower cost than the
                                                                                 alternatives
Construction         and                          New lines operational          Line is fully
commissioning of lines                                                           operational
Construction of MHPP                              Operational                    The MHPP
switchyard                                                                       switchyard is
                                                                                 operational
Modernization         of                          Operational                    Substations are fully
substations                                                                      operational
CO2 emissions               Demand growth of      Estimated 1.2m tons of CO2     Estimated 1.2m tons
                            900 GWh/yr by 2012    emissions avoided by 1.02      of CO2 emissions
                            and 1,700 GWh/yr by   TWh of hydroelectricity        avoided after a full
                            2020 will be met by                                  year of MHPP
                            thermal generation                                   operation


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

The Project Development Indicаtors were not formally revised. However, during project
implementation the Outcome Indicator for reduction in average wholesale price was dropped as
irrelevant, given the negligible share of the low-cost MHPP generation in the region’s overall
generation mix and other factors like administrative price caps on groups of generation
companies and the much-reduced turnover on the spot market. In addition, even if the average
wholesale price was reduced, it would not have been attributable to the project. The detailed
analysis of the M&E design is presented in the section 2.3 - Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
Design, Implementation and Utilization.




                                                  3
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Electricity consumers in the Southern region are the main beneficiaries of the increased electricity
production in the region. They will receive more reliable electricity supply made possible by the
elimination of load shedding, and a reduction of periodic supply interruptions from the occasional
overloading of the North-South transmission system. KEGOC also benefited, as it made an
agreement with MHPP to purchase 350 GWh of electricity (which was needed to make up for
transmission losses) for about 25 percent less than the wholesale price of electricity available
from the Northern coal-fired power plants.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project was composed of the following three components: Component A – construction of
transmission lines; Component B – construction of a switching station and modernization of two
substations; and Component C – consulting and technical services for procurement and project
management. An overall description of the components and their subcomponent are presented
below. There is a more detailed technical description of each component in Annex 2.

Component A – Construction of Transmission Lines

    •   A1– Construction of a 97.73 km long 220 kV single-circuit overhead transmission line
        (OHTL) from MHPP to Shelek substation; Construction of two 220 kV transmission lines
        from 220 kV MHPP Switchyard to MHPP (circuit 1 – 0.484 km, circuit 2 - 0.553 km).
    •   A2 – Construction of a 227.78 km long 220 kV single-circuit OHTL from MHPP to
        Robot substation.

Component B – Modernization of Substations

       B1 – Construction of 220/110 kV outdoor switchyard to transfer of power from MHPP to
        KEGOC transmission lines.
       B2 – Modernization of 220 kV Robot substation;
       B3 – Modernization of 220 kV Shelek substation.

The Component C – Consulting and Technical Services

       C1– Procurement and project management consulting services, including preparation of
        bidding documents, construction supervision and quality control.
       C2 – Technical service, which include support for selection of transmission routes,
        engineering surveys and construction supervision of the turn-key contracts.
1.6 Revised Components

No components were revised during the project implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

The IBRD loan Closing Date was extended by four months, from December 31, 2012 to April 30,
2013 to allow KEGOC to complete testing of the MHPP. At closing, US$3.27 million remained
unspent and was cancelled. There were no significant changes in the scope of the project.



                                                 4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Two main factors positively affected implementation of the project and contributed to achieving
the stated outcomes; (i) KEGOC’s solid capacity to manage the project; and (ii) the Bank’s
experience in the implementation of transmission projects in Kazakhstan.

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

In overall, the project was well prepared and project design was sound, as it was based on a
thorough assessment of the Borrower and implementing agency capacity and reflected lessons
learned from past Bank operations. The project indicators fully allowed capturing the project
benefits and achievement of the PDOs although some of the indicators required further
refinement during the implementation. The detailed description and analysis of the design,
implementation, and utilization of the project monitoring indicators are presented in section 2.3
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization.

Preparation

The project was well prepared with particular attention to the lessons learned and technical
aspects of the proposed transmission line. The schedule of transmission line completion was
closely coordinated with the MHPP completion. Lessons learned from prior Bank work in
Kazakhstan were taken into account during design and preparation of the project. Prior
experience in the implementation of transmission projects had demonstrated that special attention
needed to be paid to the analysis of alternative possible transmission line routes to minimize the
adverse environmental and social impact. Outcomes of public discussions of route location were
incorporated into the final project design. A public consultation on the Environmental
Management Plan was conducted with affected stakeholders and Non-Government Organization
(NGOs) on November 14, 2008 in Astana. Its satisfactory implementation was verified by the
Bank’s environmental specialist.

The transmission project used standard technology for high-voltage transmission line construction
and substation extension/modernization. Alternative transmission line routes were thoroughly
evaluated. KEGOC’s analysis encompassed economic, technical, social, and environmental
considerations. Two potential routes were modified because they would have crossed the Charyn
and Altyn-Emel “Specially Protected Natural Areas.” Options using double circuit lines, which
would have minimized the transmission line capital costs, were rejected because they would have
required substantial increases in capacity of the receiving substations and would have been
subject to the risk of both circuits being interrupted at the same time. This risk was considered
undesirable from the standpoint of overall system reliability. All potential issues related to the
construction of the associated MHPP dam were identified early in the preparation process. The
dam design was reviewed in depth by an independent Bank-hired specialist. The application of
the Bank Safeguards to the MHPP as a connected project is discussed in section 2.4.

Assessment of Project Management

KEGOC, the Borrower and implementing agency, was a competent grid operating company. It
had already gained substantial experience in implementing two previous World Bank-financed
projects: The Electricity Transmission Rehabilitation Project and The North-South Electricity
Transmission Project. Its organization, staffing and reporting processes were well established and
satisfactory and its procurement and financial management capacity had been shown to be
satisfactory.

                                                5
Design

A simple three component design was selected. Turnkey contracts were agreed upon because
previous projects with KEGOC demonstrated that turnkey contracts for the construction of
transmission lines and rehabilitation of substations had provided an efficient way of
implementing projects in a cost-effective manner without over-burdening the company’s project
supervision capabilities.

Timely implementation of the project was particularly important for the success of the project
because any delay in start-up of the transmission line could have delayed the electricity
production of the MHPP, which would have had significant repercussions on its economic and
financial viability. The MHPP had a very tight implementation schedule which meant tight
implementation for the transmission line as well. Because the project required local contracting
for various aspects of project design and implementation, KEGOC believed that selecting a
company with experience in similar turnkey projects in countries other than their home country
would have reduced the risk of delay of the project implementation and ensured timely
completion. KEGOC requested to prequalify companies with experience with similar turnkey
projects in countries other than their home country. However, the Bank was not able to agree on
the prequalification as requested by KEGOC. The Bank considered prequalification criteria too
restrictive. This disagreement led to lengthy discussions between the Borrower and the Bank, as
well as within the Bank. This issue has been also referred by the Borrower in the Summary of
Borrower’s ICR, Annex 7.

While KEGOC accepted the Bank’s decision not to restrict prequalification to companies that had
experience in subcontracting outside their home country, KEGOC’s concerns proved to be
justified. The winning bidder had great difficulty in organizing the necessary subcontracting
activities, thus delayed start of the project. This delay caused late preparation of the detailed
design for the transmission line and risked timely completion of the project. Detailed discussion
on the causes of delay and remedial actions is presented in the section 2.2 Implementation below.

The intermediate project indicators, which included the timing for critical activities, were
adequate to monitor project progress. The key indicators were also well designed to capture the
project outcomes. Section 2.3 presents a more detailed analysis of the project monitoring and
evaluation.

Adequacy of Government Commitment

The project was critically needed for the evacuation of power from the MHPP. It enjoyed strong
support from the GOK. The Bank team coordinated with key GOK agencies on the project’s
design, processing schedule, and implementation plan. KEGOC obtained the approval of the
“State Expertise” and the support of the relevant ministries in regard to the feasibility study,
environmental impact assessment and project financing plan early on during project preparation.

Assessment of Risks

None of the risks identified at appraisal were rated as substantial, and the overall risk rating was
assessed as Moderate, which proved to be the case. Financial risks were mitigated by the
provisions of the Guarantee Agreement that ensured that the transmission tariff would be
maintained at levels sufficient to cover KEGOC’s longer term cash flow requirements. Technical
risks were mitigated by the strengthening of the Project Management Unit (PMU) of KEGOC

                                                 6
with an international consultant to assist in project management, while the turnkey procurement
arrangement prevented major project implementation delays. Potential risks related to land
acquisition practices and potential environmental concerns were mitigated with specific Loan
Agreement safeguard covenants.

Quality at Entry

Based on the above and, specifically, the shortcoming in design of the prequalification criteria, an
overall project quality at entry is moderately satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation

The project had a tight implementation schedule, which needed to be closely coordinated with the
completion of the MHPP, since the operation of the MHPP and construction of the transmission
lines were mutually dependent. The evacuation of power from MHPP depended entirely on the
completion of the related transmission facilities and testing and final acceptance of the lines
depended on the availability of the full load from MHPP. MHPP’s first 150 MW generation unit
was scheduled to be completed by December 2011, and the second by June 2012.

KEGOC engaged consultants to assist with the preparation of bidding documents, quality control
and monitoring of all executed work. The consultant also provided technical services associated
with transmission line route selection. A single turnkey contractor was responsible for the design,
supply and installation of the two transmission lines and the MHPP switchyard. KEGOC funded
and implemented the upgrading of the project’s two substation components.

The project had early implementation delays; the implementation got off to a slow start because
the turnkey contractor had difficulties with fielding the requisite team needed to complete the
detailed design of the project in a timely manner. There were also difficulties with completing
contracts with local subcontractors, which compounded the problem. As a result the contractor
was not able to prepare the detailed design package on time which risked timely completion of
the project.

The Bank’s early supervision missions flagged the seriousness of the risk of delayed project
completion. These early implementation delays were overcome after KEGOC undertook the task
of arranging for the completion of detailed design work. Under much pressure from KEGOC, the
contractor sped up subsequent implementation activities. As a result of the constant attention to
the implementation timeline by both the Bank and KEGOC, the works under the project were
completed on time and below budget. The first of the two lines was completed in November
2011, in time for testing the first 150 MW power unit of the MHPP. The second line was
completed in August 2012, in time for the commissioning of the second 150 MW power unit.

While the works were completed on time, within the original IBRD loan Closing Date, a four
month extension of the Closing Date was required to allow time for final testing and acceptance
of the transmission facilities. The Closing Date was extended by four months, from December 31,
2012 to April 30, 2013.




                                                 7
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design of indicators
Almost all of the outcome indicators were well designed to fully capture project outcomes.
During the process of project supervision, one indicator – the reduction in average wholesale
price of electricity – was reexamined and determined to have little relevance to the project
outputs and was dropped. Project intermediate outcome indicators were adequate to follow
implementation progress. They included: (i) tender documents completed in a timely manner; (ii)
contracts awarded in accordance with the deadline of the project’s procurement plan (PP); and
(iii) equipment delivered installed and commissioned in accordance with the PP.

The Project Monitoring Annex of the PAD included a quantitative indicator for measuring the
effect of the project’s impact on reducing the region’s power deficit: the amount of generated by
MHPP (measured in GWh). The indicator target was at least 1,027 GWh, which was a reasonable
measurable target for determining the deficit-reducing impact of the MHPP and associated
transmission facilities.

There was also a load shedding indicator, which was to be reduced to zero after project
completion, from a baseline that was subsequently determined to be 80 MW. However, the level
of system load shedding is affected by several factors in addition to the increase in the available
generation capacity under the project. Other factors, including an increased electricity supply
from the Northern region after the completion of the second North-South Interconnector, enabled
load shedding to be eliminated, before MHPP power supply became available.

Implementation

Progress indicators were consistently used to keep track of, and identify problems in
implementation progress. Slippage in implementation of procurement packages were identified
on all supervision missions and agreement was reached on efforts needed to speed up the process
and bring it in line with the PP, which was closely tied to the completion schedule of the MHPP.

Utilization

Intermediate outcome indicators were used to ensure that the project implementation remained on
schedule. In order to have a full evidence of the annual generation of MHPP, the value of MHPP
output continues to be collected. The quantitative indicators related to increased available
capacity during peak demand periods have been achieved. The indictors requiring data from a full
year of plant operation (power generated and saving in CO2 generation) give every indication that
they will be achieved. KEGOC will continue providing operation data for the MHPP and
electricity supply in the Southern region for the Bank’s monitoring of the project’s performance.
A detailed discussion of project outputs is in section 3.2.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project triggered OP 4.01 on environmental management, OP/BP4.12 on involuntary
resettlement, and OP/BP 4.37 on dam safety.




                                                8
Social and Environmental Safeguards

Environmental Management (OP/BP 4.01): The transmission line will have a limited extent and
duration of any potential environmental impacts during construction and operation phases,
therefore the project was assigned Category B. Key environmental issues included the normal
construction issues associated with the movement of men, machines and materials, dust, noise,
engine exhaust, and disposal of solid (nonhazardous) wastes - mostly from packaging and land
preparation. KEGOC prepared an Environmental Management Plan (EMP), held public
consultations, and subsequently posted the EMP on its website and disclosed it in the Bank’s
InfoShop. The project is in full compliance with environmental assessment regulations of the
Borrower and World Bank safeguard policies for environmental assessment.

Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12): The project triggered OP 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement due to land acquisition associated with project activities. KEGOC acquired about 14
hectares of land for permanent use and 555 hectares for temporary use. All land acquired was in
rural areas and was agricultural and grazing land. In total, 316 persons (land users) have been
affected. None had to be resettled, and all received reasonable cash compensation. A Land
Acquisition Policy Framework was prepared during project preparation. However, construction of
the line started prior to the Bank’s formal approval of a Land Acquisition Plan (LAP). The client
was alerted to this and the Bank team worked with the client to approve a LAP acceptable to the
Bank and which included relevant retroactive measures to ensure that all project-related
compensation was in line with OP 4.12. All compensation has been completed prior to loan
closure.

Dam Safety (OP/BP 4.37): Although the MHPP was not formally part of the transmission project
financed by the Bank, it was considered to be a “connected” project. OP/BP 4.37 was therefore
triggered, and the Bank hired an independent dam safety expert to perform a due diligence
assessment of its design, construction and envisaged operation. This assessment found that the
dam was designed by qualified engineers and that the design drawings were of high quality, with
sufficient details and quantitative assessments to confirm the safety of the dam. Given these
findings, the Bank concluded that the dam was consistent with OP/BP 4.37.

Financial Management

KEGOC’s Financial Management (FM) procedures had been reviewed periodically as part the
supervision of all ongoing Bank-financed transmission operations. The Bank considered the FM
arrangements fully satisfactory. The major features were:

    (i)     Sound project accounting system integrated with the corporate accounting system;
    (ii)    Experienced and skilled project management team that includes qualified FM staff;
    (iii)   Timely and regular submission of satisfactory interim financial reports to the Bank;
    (iv)    Timely submission of satisfactorily audited project and entity financial statements;
            and
    (v)     Effective internal control procedures that that have ensured completeness and
            accuracy of financial transactions.

In addition, the project included: (i) regular reviews of compliance with the internal control
framework; (ii) regular monitoring of activities of the Designated Accounts, including regular and
timely reconciliation of the Designated Accounts with bank statements; (iii) quarterly submission
of project Interim Financial Reports; (iv) audit of project financial statements by independent


                                                9
auditors on terms acceptable to the Bank; and (v) regular FM supervision and procurement
reviews.

Project financial supervision missions were carried out in 2010, 2011 and 2012. All supervisions
confirmed that adequate FM system, including sound internal controls had been established and
KEGOC and the project were in full compliance with financial covenants under the Loan
Agreement and that there were no issues with counterpart funds. KEGOC’s financial statements
and the projects’ statements for 2010, 2011 and 2012 were audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The auditors issued an unmodified (clean) opinion on the consolidated
entity and the project's financial statements.

Procurement

Procurement under the project was implemented in accordance with the Bank’s Procurement and
Consultant Guidelines and in accordance with the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
KEGOC ran a tight procurement process and a well-administered tender for the turnkey contract,
which value was about US$2.7 million below the original cost estimate. The issue of procurement
of the turnkey contractor for the line and the lengthy discussion between the Borrower and the
Bank, as well as within the Bank with respect to prequalification criteria is discussed in the
Section 2.1, Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry, subsection Design.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

KEGOC will continue to collect information covering transmission of power from MHPP and the
amount of load shedding in the Southern region of Kazakhstan as part of its normal data
collection process.

Recently, KEGOC has conducted discussions with the Bank on possible support for the proposed
Third North-South Electricity Transmission Project. This project is included in the Bank’s FY12-
FY17 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). Such follow-up investment would strengthen the
national power network and improve the reliability of electricity supply in Southern Kazakhstan.
It would also provide the basis to sustain the dialogue with GOK on further sector reforms.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project remains consistent with the objectives of the Bank’s CPS for FY12-17, which was
designed to help the GOK implement its development priorities. As stated in the FY05-11 CPS
Completion Report, relieving the infrastructure constraints to growth had been a key component
of the GOK’s competitiveness agenda. The Bank has helped to finance strategic investments in
the transmission sector through three consecutive loans to KEGOC.

The PDOs of increasing and improving the supply of electricity to business enterprises and
households in Southern Kazakhstan in an economically and environmentally sustainable manner
were, and continue to be, highly relevant to the continued vigorous economic development of
Kazakhstan’s rapidly growing Southern region. Kazakhstan has maintained an ongoing
commitment to developing an infrastructure system to support its economic growth and social
development objectives. This project was an integral part of the GOK’s electricity sector

                                              10
development strategy for 2007-2015. Although the GOK has reduced its sovereign guaranteed
borrowings in recent years, it continues to provide sovereign guarantees for KEGOC’s program
of transmission system modernization and expansion, thereby demonstrating the strategic
importance assigned to these initiatives.

Project design and implementation were directly relevant to the above objectives. The
transmission system financed under the project was indispensable for bringing the 300 MW of
additional clean hydroelectricity to Kazakhstan’s Southern region.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The development objectives of increasing and improving the supply of electricity to business
enterprises and households in Southern Kazakhstan in an economically and environmentally
sustainable manner were achieved. The supply of electricity to Kazakhstan’s Southern region was
increased by providing the facilities required to evacuate the electricity generated by the MHPP.
The first high voltage line went into operation in November 2011 and the second in August 2012
- within a couple of months of the original schedule.

The project has achieved its development objective as measured by the set of monitoring
indicators presented in the Data Sheet. The project has resulted in the following benefits in terms
of achieving the development objectives:

   MHPP’s additional 300 MW of generating capacity has contributed to the reduction of
    regional power deficit of the Southern Kazakhstan region.

   The Southern region is expected to be provided with 1,000 GWh per year of hydroelectric
    power, much of which will be used to cover peak demand. MHPP has provided about 430
    GWh of power in its first six months of full capacity operation.

   There has been no load shedding in the Almaty power region since the project has gone on
    stream. While this result is attributable to the availability of MHPP, the expansion of the
    North-South transmission line which had been a limiting factor in the past, also contributed to
    the elimination of the load shedding.

   It is not possible to evaluate the project’s contribution to the change in the average cost of
    power to the region, since it is difficult to fully access the MHPP cost data. However, a
    moderate downward pressure is plausible given the fact that the MHPP hydroelectricity is
    produced at a lower cost than the alternatives (including power supplied from the North over
    large distances. KEGOC has contracted with MHPP for 350 MWh of additional output
    (needed for making up for its transmission losses) at a price significantly lower than the cost
    would have been from power plants in the country’s Northern region.

   MHPP’s annual output of about 1,000 GWh of electric power would replace this amount of
    electricity generated by coal-fired plants, thereby saving about 1.2 million tons of CO2.
    MHPP is expected to reach this level of output by the end of its first year of operation (i.e.,
    end-2013).

A detailed description of the benefits resulting from the implementation of the project is
presented in the following sections.



                                                11
Reduction of power deficit of the Southern region. As predicted during the appraisal of the
project, the peak load in the Southern region grew from 2.8 GW to 3.5 GW over the project
implementation period. As a result of this project and increase of North-South transmission line
capacity the peak load of the Southern region was fully met; there were no outages or load
shedding in the region. The project also led to reduced peak contribution of the inefficient heavy
fuel oil Zhambyl plant. Zhambyl contributed to the peak of 817 MW in 2007. In 2012 the peak
contribution reduced by about 300 MW. As a direct result of the project, commissioning of the
transmission line allowed MHPP to provide 249 MW clean peak capacity to the Southern region
during the peak demand in the winter of 2012.
 
The Southern region is expected to be provided with 1,000 GWh per year of hydroelectric
power. In its first six months of operation the MHPP has provided about 430 GWh of
hydroelectric power. There is a reasonable ground to expect that the Southern region will be
provided with 1000 GWh annual hydroelectric generation from the MHPP. Unit 1 of the MHPP
was completed and tested in November 2011, and Unit 2 - in August 2012. While monthly
generation of the MHPP varied depending on the peak demand of the system and inflow of water,
for six months of full availability of the MHPP from September 2012, to February 2013, the
power generated by MHPP was about 429 GWh. This suggests that the Southern region will be
provided with 1,000 GWh per year of clean hydroelectric power from MHPP.

Saving about 1.2 million tons of CO2. The MHPP’s expected annual output of about 1,000 GWh
of electric power will replace the same amount of electricity generated by coal-fired plants
thereby emissions reduction of the MHPP is expiated to equal the Project appraisal target of 1.2
million tons. As there is no grid emission factor for the Kazakhstan grid approved by the United
Nations Framework for Convention on Climate Change, a standard coal-fired plant emission
factor was used. At the project appraisal the emission factor of a coal-fired plant was assumed at
1.2 kg CO2 /kWh, the MHPP’s expected annual is 1,000 GWh, thereby emissions reduction of the
MHPP was estimated about 1.2 million tons of CO2.

3.3 Efficiency: Satisfactory

The project was implemented on time and under budget. Based on current projections, the
expected economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of the integrated project (MHPP and
transmission) is 16 percent including the monetized economic value of the CO2 emission savings.
If the CO2 savings are excluded, the EIRR is 13.6 percent. The financial internal rate of return
(FIRR) to KEGOC from the transmission component alone is 20.8 percent. The FIRR is high
because KEGOC receives the same price for a kWh transmitted no matter where the electricity is
generated and consumed. The MHPP requires a substantially shorter transmission line than the
national system’s average. Detailed assumptions of the financial analysis are in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The project is considered to have a satisfactory overall outcome rating. The project was
implemented below estimated costs. The Development Objectives were achieved. The economic
and financial benefits of the project have been substantial.  




                                               12
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project is not associated with any extension of the grid that might affect the number of people
receiving electricity services. Its impact is on the quality of the supply of electricity in
Kazakhstan’s Southern region primarily in terms of avoiding brownouts and blackouts during
periods of peak demand, as regional electricity demand, continues to grow. The avoided
brownouts and blackouts in Southern region most likely will positively affect the region’s growth.
While the indirect cost of brownouts and blackouts to businesses, and industries have not been
assessed, unscheduled brownouts and sudden interruptions of power supply are known to cause
substantial costs to all. Provision of stable supply of electricity almost inevitably will reduce of
cost to power to businesses, thus it has a positive effect on the economy of the Southern region.
It is also recognized that power interruptions disproportionally affect the poorest consumers
which further signifies the impact of the Project on poverty.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening:

The project did not have any direct institutional strengthening component. However, the Bank’s
engagement with KEGOC and the GOK in the electricity sector over many years, including the
ongoing Alma Electricity Transmission project has contributed significantly to KEGOC’s
operational and institutional strengthening. In this regard, Kazakhstan has become a model for
other CIS countries, having created an efficient, profitable and commercially-oriented power
system operator, a reasonably effective sector regulator, and a competitive power market, within
the framework of an overall sound institutional and legal framework.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not Applicable


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome: Low

The overall risk to development outcome is rated as low for the following reasons:

   Likelihood of not achieving development outcome due to technical risks is negligibly low.
    The technologies introduced under the project are well established, tested, and technically
    relatively simple. KEGOC’s staff is fully trained.

   Likelihood of not achieving development outcome due to financial risks is low. The
    company’s overall financial position is solid, and there was no problem with KEGOC’s own
    financing of the project. The sector regulator has consistently granted tariff increases to cover
    KEGOC’s full operating and investment costs. While it cannot be totally excluded that future
    tariff increase requests might not be approved at the requested levels, transmission tariff
    increases of about 10 percent per year have already been approved for the next three years.



                                                 13
   Likelihood of not achieving development outcome due to environmental risks is negligibly
    low. The EA rating of category B reflected appropriately the initial assessment that the
    environmental risks were of limited and manageable scope. KEGOC fully complied with the
    covenanted environmental protection requirements.

   Likelihood of not achieving development outcome due to governance risks is low. KEGOC
    has benefited in the past from a strong and capable management team, which has enjoyed the
    support of the GOK agencies responsible for overall policy setting. As a result, the
    commercial focus of the company has been exemplary and political interference minimal. In
    February 2012, KEGOC informed the Bank that it has been included in the GOK’s “People’s
    IPO” program for selected major state-owned enterprises. Under this program the company
    shares (from 5 percent to 15 percent) will be floated on the stock market. The exact timing of
    the float has yet to be decided. While this development is expected to strengthen the
    corporate governance practice, the Initial Public Offering (IPO) may introduce a new element
    of uncertainty as to how KEGOC will be managed going forward.

   The key factor contributing to achievement of development outcome is continued ability of
    the MHPP to generate at least 1,000 GWh of electricity per year, which implies an average
    capacity utilization of 39 percent. In the medium term, this level of utilization should not be a
    problem. However, in the longer term, climate change could have a possible impact on water
    availability for the hydropower plant.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance: Moderately Satisfactory

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry: Satisfactory

The project was prepared in a short time, with 10 months from the Concept Review to Board
approval, and with minimal budget costs.

The project was underpinned by sound technical, economic and financial analysis. It used well-
tested technologies. The Bank mobilized a team with all the necessary skills including specialists
in electricity markets, engineering, procurement, environment and financial management.
KEGOC’s implementation, financial management and procurement capacity were judged to be
adequate, as demonstrated by its performance under prior and ongoing Bank-funded transmission
projects. The Bank team, recommended the hiring a project management consultant and the use
of a turnkey approach for the major contract to minimize the additional work load of KEGOC’s
implementation team.

The Bank environmental specialist identified the limited environmental impacts and verified that
the EMP had adequate arrangements for mitigation and monitoring the environmental impacts
and that there was adequate public consultation during project preparation. The technical,
environmental and social risk assessment was thorough and identified appropriate risk mitigation
measures.

While Bank considered the Borrower-suggested prequalification criteria to be restrictive as
described in the section, 2.1 Design, the prequalification process failed to eliminate potentially
inexperienced companies which had limited track record of implementing turnkey contracts with


                                                 14
tight schedule. As a result, the selected contractor was not able to rapidly mobilize the full team
of specialized staff needed to meet this project’s critically tight implementation schedule.

Borrower’s concerns with respect to inadequate prequalification proved justified; the contractor
proved to be unprepared to mobilize a local team capable of implementing the Design and Supply
subcontracts in an unfamiliar new country. To address the potential delay, the Borrower took over
some tasks, including arrangements for detailed designs and identification of local subcontractors.

(b) Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory

Supervision missions were carried out at regular intervals over the three years of project
implementation. Delays in the implementation schedule and the need to make up for the lost time
were constant themes of supervision mission Aide-Memoirs. Most of the procurement issues
were handled by the regional field office. Adherence to the EMP was monitored regularly. There
were two fiduciary FM missions. The Bank maintained a collaborative relationship with the client
and was regarded as a trusted partner, as indicated in the client’s assessment (Annex 7).

While the Bank rigorously provided implementation support from fiduciary perspective, the Bank
was not able to ensure timely preparation by the Borrower and approval of LAP. The construction
of the transmission line started without approved LAP. On the other hand, the delay with the line
construction would have been inadmissible. The retroactive measures implemented by the Bank
and Borrower as described in the Section Social and Environmental Safeguards addressed the
problem.

In addition, the prequalification process failed to eliminate potentially inexperienced contractors.
The Bank was fully aware of delay of preparation of the detailed design packages however, the
delay was only overcome after KEGOC itself undertook the arrangements for completing the
project’s detailed design packages.

On December 14, 2012, the Bank agreed to extend the loan Closing Date from December 31,
2012 to April 30, 2013. This was the first and only extension requested by the Borrower. The
reason for the request was that although the construction works were fully completed and the
contract was to close before end-December 2012, KEGOC needed additional time to properly
accept the works, carry guarantee tests, and, most importantly, obtain signed acceptance
certificate from a number of competent GOK agencies. Only after the acceptance certificate was
signed, could the final payment be processed. The extension met the needs of the implementing
agency without compromising the project’s performance.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

The overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory due to Moderately Satisfactory
rating for the Quality of Supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance: Satisfactory

The GOK considered MHPP to be of high regional and national economic importance. It was
included in the 2010-2014 State Program of Accelerated Industrial and Innovative Development
of Kazakhstan. The project was assessed and cleared by the Ministry of Energy and Mineral

                                                15
Resources, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Economy and Budget
Planning, and the Ministry of Finance. The GOK monitored project implementation at the
highest levels, including a site visit by the Prime Minister. The GOK ensured timely financing
and supported the speedy construction of the MHPP.
 
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance: Satisfactory 

KEGОС had a fully staffed, effective PMU that had extensive experience implementing Bank-
financed transmission projects. To ensure that the project was implemented in the shortest time
possible, KEGOC hired an international consultant to assist with writing and evaluating the
bidding documents and used a turnkey contract to insure adequate coordination of all design and
construction activities. It provided the financing for the Robot and Shelek substations and for the
switchyard at MHPP, and ensured that they were completed on the agreed timetable. It
continually pressed the turnkey contractor to meet the tight timetable for the transmission line
construction and undertook key corrective tasks during the early stages of implementation to
prevent a serious slippage.

It developed an EMP in compliance with the IBRD requirements and the legislation of the GOK
and implemented an effective environment monitoring system which included the appropriate
mitigation actions at each stage of the project. The PMU supplied the Bank team with regular
quarterly reports that identified problems as they arose, and worked closely with the contractors
to ensure that the project was implemented on schedule. Two Bank’s FM missions found that
accounting and auditing procedures were well designed and implemented, at both the project and
corporate levels.
 
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance: Satisfactory 

The overall Borrower performance is rated as Satisfactory due to high proactivity, efficient and
effective decision making, which led to the project implemented on schedule and at below
original project cost estimates. The Borrower took necessary remedial measures to bring the
project back on track following the turnkey contractor’s initial inadequate performance.

The Borrower ensured that the project remained in full compliance with the Bank’s fiduciary
requirements throughout project implementation and ensured that the project delivered the stated
development objectives on time. All audit reports were clean, there were no environmental issues,
and affected farmers were compensated for the short-term use of their land and for purchase of
land permanently acquired for the project. The GOK requested, and the Bank agreed, to cancel
US$2.7 of the loan proceeds because it was not needed to complete the project.

6. Lessons Learned

The following three key lessons were learned from the project;


       The Bank standard prequalification criteria are ill-suited for selecting a qualified
        contractor at a reasonable price for the turnkey design-supply-install contractor where
        tight delivery period is critical. For the selection of a turnkey design-supply-install
        contractor under a tight delivery period stricter prequalification criteria should be applied;
        while restricting competition, only those companies which have experience of similar
        turnkey contracts implemented within short period and outside of the country of their
        origin should be prequalified for such contracts.

                                                 16
      Lack of consistent and close involvement of a qualified social scientist on the team
       experienced with land acquisition issues both during preparation and especially during
       implementation resulted in excessive delays in approving the LAP and risked the project
       becoming out of compliance with a safeguard covenant in the Loan Agreement. This
       shows that even projects that have limited land acquisition and no relocation of persons
       still require adequate attention and resources from the Bank’s team. It also highlights the
       importance of upfront technical assistance and capacity building to the client.

      As with most Bank projects, the development of long relationships with the
       implementing agency helped to create mutual trust and understanding, which in turn
       facilitated resolution of problems that arose during the course of project implementation.

      Early consultation with NGO community helps to avoid project implementation
       problems. During project preparation, it proved to be critically important to engage the
       NGO community, and to take into account in the final project design their justified
       concerns. In this project, NGOs expressed concerns about the initial routing of the two
       transmission lines. The result was a timely rerouting decision which ensured that the lines
       did not encroach upon the GOK-defined Specially Protected Natural Areas.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

No issues were raised by the Borrower
 
(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable
 
(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                               17
                          Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Components in US Dollars Equivalent
                                        Appraisal                   Percentage of
Components                              Estimate          Actual     Appraisal

A. Transmission lines                           45.8         44.0              96
B. Substations                                  21.1         18.8              89
C. Consultancy and technical services            2.5          2.5              99
Total Baseline Cost                             69.4         65.3              94
Physical Contingencies                             0            0
Price Contingencies                                0            0
Total Project Cost
Front-end fee for IBRD                           0.2          0.2             100
Total Financing Required                        69.6         65.6              95

(b) Financing
Source of Funds                         Appraisal         Actual    Percentage of
                                        Estimate                     Appraisal
Borrower                                       23.6          20.8              88

IBRD                                            46.0         44.7             97




                                          18
                               Annex 2. Outputs by Component


The transmission line and associated substations and the outdoor switchyard (OSY) needed to
evacuate power from the MHPP hydropower generating plant was completed on schedule at the
end of 2012. The project components were:

Component A – Construction of Transmission Lines with the following subcomponents:

A1 – Construction of single-circuit Overhead Transmission Line (OHTL) from MHPP to
Shelek SS:

The OHTL exits the OSY at MHPP and heads North to the Shelek SS. It goes across the
Yenbeksh- Kazakhsky territory in the region of Almaty. The 220 kV OHTL has a length of about
97 km. The design contemplates aluminum conductor steel reinforced, with cross-sectional areas
of 394 mm2 of aluminum and 51.1 mm2 of steel. It is lightning protected by means of an
overhead ground wire along the entire transmission line.

A2 – Construction of single-circuit OHTL from MHPP to Robot SS:

The OHTL exits the OSY at MHPP and heads North to the Shelek SS and from there to the Robot
SS. It crosses the Yenbekshy-Kazakhsky, Ilisky and Talgarsky territory in the region of Almaty.
The 220 kV OHTL has a length of about 225 km.

Component B – Modernization of Substations with the following subcomponents:

B1 – Construction of 220/110 kV OSY at MHPP:

An OSY with a configuration consisting of double main busbars and transfer bus with single
circuit breakers was built at the MHPP.

B2 – Modernization of Robot SS

Installation of new high voltage equipment in the reserve bay for the 220 kV OHTL MHPP –
Robot SS and replacement of the high voltage equipment: circuit breakers, disconnect switches,
surge arresters, and current and voltage transformers, as well as control and protection equipment.

B3 – Modernization of Shelek SS

Revamping of the existing 220 kV, 110 kV, and 35 kV switching arrangements, including
replacement of main switching equipment including: circuit breakers, disconnect switches,
busbars, current and voltage transformers, and control and protection equipment.

Component C – Consulting and Technical Services with the following subcomponents:

C1 – Procurement and project management

Procurement and project management consulting services for the construction of the OHTLs,
construction of the OSY at MHPP, modernization of the Robot SS and Shelek SS.
Responsibilities of the consultant include: preparation of the bidding documents and technical


                                                19
specifications, construction supervision, quality control and monitoring of all executed work,
verification of contractor’s payments and reporting to KEGOC and the Bank.

Component C – Consulting and Technical Services with the following subcomponents:

C1 – Procurement and project management

Procurement and project management consulting services for the construction of the OHTLs,
construction of the OSY at MHPP, modernization of the Robot SS and Shelek SS.
Responsibilities of the consultant include: preparation of the bidding documents and technical
specifications, construction supervision, quality control and monitoring of all executed work,
verification of contractor’s payments and reporting to KEGOC and the Bank.




                                             20
                          Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


Economic and Financial Rate of Return

General Approach. The project’s economic benefits have to be evaluated in the context of the
overall scheme of delivering power from the MHPP to customers in the Southern region of
Kazakhstan. The scope of costs therefore extends beyond those directly associated with the
construction and operation of the new transmission facilities to include the other capital and
operating expenditures that are required to provide this electricity service to the end user. Thus,
although the Bank-financed investment covered only the transmission lines for the MHPP, the
economic and financial analysis at the time of appraisal considered the two components as an
integrated single entity and evaluated them as such. This same approach has been adopted for the
ex-post evaluation.

Benefits are also viewed from the perspective of the end-user. These benefits include the value
which the customers attribute to incremental electricity supply which can be measured in terms of
their willingness to pay for electricity. In Southern Kazakhstan, where virtually all households
and businesses have access to grid-based electricity supply, the measurement of willingness to
pay takes into account the basic tariff and the presumed willingness to pay for peak power. Both
the PAD and this ICR has assumed that the peak power provided by MHPP has an added value to
consumers beyond that indicated by the tariff. However, unlike the PAD, the ICR analysis does
not consider the cost associated with load shedding, since there was no reported load shedding at
the time of project completion.

The sections below provide details of the major assumptions used with respect to the
measurement of project costs and benefits. The analysis is based on the data KEGOC provided on
the actual investment costs for their transmission project, the associated operating costs, and on
KECOG’s projections for future MHPP output and peak power supply. The MHPP did not
provide its actual cost data, because they consider this data to be proprietary. (The plant is
partially privately owned.) The ICR therefore relied on the data about the MHPP that was used in
the ex-ante analysis in the PAD.

Project Costs. For the economic analysis, the project costs were assumed to include the
following: (i) the financial capital cost of both project components (power plant and
transmission), excluding all taxes; (ii) annual operating and maintenance costs for each project
component, including wages, materials excluding property taxes; (iii) periodic major maintenance
of lines and SSs; and (iv) the cost of technical losses on incremental volumes transmitted on the
new transmission lines. Benefits from the reduction in CO2 emissions were included. Economic
benefits from producing peak power were included but benefits from load shedding were
excluded because of the actual lack of such curtailments due to the completion of the second
North-South interconnector.

The major differences between the PAD calculations and those of the ICR are: (i) the
transmission project’s actual costs are used; (ii) unserved demand has been reduced to zero
because the recent introduction of the second North-South transmission line has greatly reduced
the likelihood of unserved energy demand; (iii) actual production figures were used to 2012 and
projected for 2013; (iv) the percentage of MHPP output produced at peak times of the day was
recalculated using KEGOC’s assumptions about the MW output they will need for each month. In
months where their power utilization is assumed to be more than an average of 100 MW, the ICR


                                                21
analysis has assumed that all the output is used to cover peak demand. This methodology leads to
an estimate of total peak generation of 71 percent, up from the 48 percent estimated in the PAD.

Based on the above assumptions and methodology, the estimated EIRR of the integrated project
is 16.0 percent when the benefits attributed to CO2 reduction are included. This compares with
an estimated EIRR of 17.2 percent in the PAD. If the CO2 reduction benefits are excluded, the
EIRR is 13.6 percent.

Financial Analysis. The major difference between the economic and financial analysis is that the
latter focuses exclusively on KEGOC’s financial return from the transmission component. It is
based on the same data set as that of the economic analysis, but only with KEGOC’s investment
and operating costs for the transmission project component. All taxes are included. The ex-post
FIRR is 20.8 percent. This compares with an estimated FIRR of 13.3 percent in the PAD.

                                  MHPP Generation in MWh
                 Actual Generation 2012                 Actual/Planned Generation 2013
                                                                                         Planned/
            1st Gen    2ed gen                1st Gen   2ed gen    Total    Planned      Used for
             Unit       Unit      Total Gen    Unit      Unit      Gen     Generation    Peaking
January      4,477                  4,477     39,820    22,949    62,769     70,000       61,000
February     1,522     5,671        7,193     35,572    27,029    62,601     67,000       61,000
March          0       16,123      16,123     29,519    30,601    60,120     66,000       61,000
April       22,074      951        23,025                                    93,000       61,000
May         52,884     13,422      66,306                                   102,000       61,000
June        11,462     35,910      47,372                                   168,000       61,000
July        12,224     13,175      25,399                                   117,000       61,000
August*      56,427    69,849      126,276                                   79,000      61,000
September    30,503    66,413       96,916                                   53,000      53,000
October      25,589    40,246       65,835                                   61,000      61,000
November     24,479    55,988       80,467                                   74,000      61,000
December     53,108    38,335      91,443                                    75,000      61,000
Yearly
total                                                                      1,025,000     724,000

*Commissioning of the second transmission line




                                              22
Ex-Post Financial Rate of Return

Moinak Transmission Component                              EX POST Financial Rate of Return Calculations


Assumptions                                                                           2008   2009          2010   2011    2012    2013    2014 2015‐35
Transmission losses (%)                                  KEGOC                                                            6.5%    6.5%    6.5%     6.5%
End‐user tariff, Households, including VAT (a)   KZ/KWhPAD                            9.37    9.37         9.37    9.37    1.12    1.29    1.49     1.66
End‐user tariff, Non‐residential, including VAT (a)  KZ/KPAD                          7.08    7.08         7.08    7.08    1.12    1.29    1.49     1.66
Household share  of total  consumption                   PAD                  0
Peak Premium (% of base tariff)                            PAD            210%
**'Current Purchase price of losses (KZT/kWh)              PAD             4.81
**'Moinak Price of Losses (KZT/kWh)                        PAD             3.49
Moinak Construction Period (months) & pecentage per year   PAD               33
*Moinak HPP - Capital Cost (KZT milion)                    PAD           51,000               20%          40%     20%    14%
**HPP Operating Cost (KZT/kWh)                             PAD             0.80
Distribution Costs (KZT/kWh)                               PAD             3.56      2.72
Avoided Carbon Emissions                                   PAD             1.15 million tons/yr
Peak power as a percentage  of output                      KEGOC*          71%  

Output
Generation (GWh)                                           KEGOC 1012 actual  1013 projected                               501     978     978      978
Transmission Losses (compensated by KEGOC)                 KEGOC 1012 actual  1013 projected                         0     ‐33     ‐64     ‐ 64     ‐64
Transmission Volumes                                       KEGOC 1012 actual  1013 projected                         0     468     914     914      914

Sales
End‐User Sales  GWh                                        Derived                                                   0     468     914     914      914
of which Peak GWh                                          Derived                                                         333     649     649      649
   Base  load GWh                                          Derived                                                         136     329     329      329

Net Economic Cash Flow (million KZT)
Costs                                                                                   0     2058      4116       3087   1147     226     226      226
Benefits                                                                                0        0         0          0   3223    2057    2368     2682
Net Cash Flow                                                                           0    ‐2058     ‐4116      ‐3087   2076    1831    2142     2456
IRR                                                                      20.8%




Capital  Cost of Transmission Interconnector (millions KKEGOC            10290               2058          4116   3087    1029       0

Operating Costs (million KZT)


Transmission O&M ‐ New Line
 Wages (million KZT/yr)                                                                                                      3       3       3        3
 Materials (million KZT/yr)                                                 13                                               2       2       2        2
 Line  Overhaul  (million KZT/yr)                                            0
Marginal  Cost of losses                                                                                                   114     222     222      222

 Total  Operating                                                                       0        0           0       0     118     226     226      226

Benefits
Household WTP, base  load                                                                                            0      68     191     220      246
Commercial/industry WTP, base  load                                                                                  0      84     234     269      301
WTP Premium for Peak Power ‐ households                                                                              0     352     793     911     1021
WTP Premium for Peak Power ‐ commercial  /industry                                                                   0    2720     839     969     1114
Avoided CO2 Emissions                                                                                                        0       0       0        0


Total  Benefits                                                                                                           3223    2057    2368     2682




                                                                                 23
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) 
Kazakhstan Southern Transmission Project
Moinak Transmission Component
EIRR



Assumptions                                                                            2008               2009           2010           2011         2012            2013            2014            2015 2016‐35
Transmission losses  (%)                          KEGOC                                 6.5%              6.5%           6.5%           6.5%          6.5%            6.5%            6.5%            6.5%            6.5%
Distribution losses  (%)                          PAD                     10%
End‐user  tariff, Households, including VAT (a)   PAD                    9.37       9.37                   9.37           9.37           9.37         9.37            9.37            9.37            9.37            9.37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
End‐user  tariff, Non‐residential, including VAT (a PAD                  7.08       7.08                   7.08           7.08           7.08         7.08            7.08            7.08            7.08            7.08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Household share of total  consumption             PAD                     45%
Peak Premium (% of base tariff)               PAD                       210%
**'Current Purchase price of losses (KZT/kWh) PAD                        4.81
**'Moinak Price of Losses (KZT/kWh)           PAD                        3.49
Moinak Transmission Construction Period           KEGOC                                                                   10%            50%           40%
*Moinak HPP - Capital Cost (KZT milion)           KEGOC               51,000                               20%            30%            40%           14%
**HPP Operating Cost (KZT/kWh)                    KEGOC                    0.80
Distribution Costs (KZT/kWh)                      PAD                      3.56           ‐
Opportunity Cost of Capital                       PAD                      8%
*'Avoided Load Shedding ‐ Almaty Oblast (MW) KEGOC                            0                                                                         ‐               ‐               ‐               ‐               ‐
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Total  Unserved Energy ‐ GWH @  hrs/yr            KLEGOC                      0                                                                         ‐               ‐               ‐               ‐               ‐
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Cost of Unserved Energy (KZT/kWh)                 PAD                   43.25
                                                                                                                                                        ‐               ‐               ‐               ‐               ‐
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Avoided Carbon Emissions  (Tons/GWh)              PAD                 1,200
Value of Avoided Emissions  US$/ton               Assumption             $10
Peak power  percentage of output                  KEGOC*                  71%  


Capital Costs (million KZT)
HPP Construction (to completion)                  PAD                                         0        10200          15300          20400          7140                    0
*Transmission system                              KEGOC                 9296                                            930           3719          4648                    0
  of which VAT                                    KEGOC                 1184                               0           ‐118           ‐592          ‐474                    0
Total  Capital                                                                                0        10200          16111          23527         11315                    0               0               0               0

Operating Costs (million KZT)
Transmission O&M ‐ New Line
 Wages (million KZT/yr)                                                                                                                                                                      2.74
                                                                                                                                                     2.74      2.74      2.74      2.74       
 Materials (million KZT/yr)                                            12.73
                                                                                                                                                                                             1.66
                                                                                                                                                     1.66      1.66      1.66      1.66       
 Line  Overhaul  (million KZT/yr)                                   0.01302
Marginal  Cost of losses                                                                                                                              114        
                                                                                                                                                                          222        
                                                                                                                                                                222                 222        222
Distribution Costs                                                                                                                        ‐        1,503    2,934    2,934    2,934    2,934
 Total  Operating                                                                        ‐                  ‐              ‐              ‐        1,621    3,160    3,160    3,160    3,160

Incremental Output
Generation                                                     GW.h                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                501.00          978.00
                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                978.00           
                                                                                                                                                                                                978.00           978.00
Transmission Losses (compensated by KEGOC)                     GW.h                                                                       ‐      (32.57)         (63.57)         (63.57)         (63.57)         (63.57)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Transmission Volumes                                           GW.h                                                                       ‐     468.44
                                                                                                                                                                914.43
                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                914.43           
                                                                                                                                                                                                914.43           914.43
Distribution Losses                                            GW.h                                                                       ‐      (46.84)         (91.44)         (91.44)         (91.44)         (91.44)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
End‐User Sales                                                 GW.h                                                                       ‐      
                                                                                                                                                421.59           
                                                                                                                                                                822.99           
                                                                                                                                                                                822.99          822.99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 822.99
of which Peak                                                  GW.h                                                                             299.33
                                                                                                                                                                584.32
                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                584.32           
                                                                                                                                                                                                584.32           584.32
   Base  load                                                  GW.h                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                122.26          393.68
                                                                                                                                                                                393.68
                                                                                                                                                                                                393.68
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 393.68

Benefits
Household WTP, base  load                                                                                                                 ‐           515
                                                                                                                                                                   1,660           1,660           1,660           1,660
Commercial/industry WTP, base  load                                                                                                       ‐           476
                                                                                                                                                                   1,533           1,533           1,533           1,533
WTP Premium for Peak Power ‐ households                                                                                                   ‐        2,650           5,173           5,173           5,173           5,173
WTP Premium for Peak Power ‐ commercial  /industry                                                                                        ‐        2,448           4,778           4,778           4,778           4,778
Avoided Outages                                                                                                                                             ‐               ‐               ‐               ‐               ‐
Avoided CO2 Emissions                                                                                                                                 908
                                                                                                                                                                   1,772           1,772           1,772           1,772
Total  Benefits                                                                                                                                    6,997        14,916
                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                14,916           
                                                                                                                                                                                                14,916           14,916

Net Economic Cash Flow (million KZT)
Costs                                                                                    ‐            10200   16,111          23,527        12,936    3,160    3,160    3,160    3,160
Benefits                                                                                 ‐                 0               
                                                                                                                          ‐               ‐    6,997  
                                                                                                                                                     14,916 14,916
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                     14,916    14,916
Net Cash Flow                                                                            ‐                    
                                                                                                    (10,200) (16,111)        (23,527)  (5,939) 11,756                 
                                                                                                                                                            11,756 11,756      11,756
IRR                                                                   16.0%
NPV                                                                  40,084


                                                                                              24
       Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Lending Task Team Members

Appraisal team
       Names                        Title               UNIT                Specialty
Istvan Dobozi         Task Team Leader                ECSSD        Energy Economist
Sergio Gonzales       Sr. Power Engineer              ECSSD        Power Engineer
Imtiaz Hizkil         Sr. Power Engineer              ECSSD        Power Engineer
Margaret A. Wilson    Financial Analyst               Consultant   Finance
Yuling Zhou           Sr. Procurement Specialist      ECSPS        Procurement
Bernard Baratz        Environmental Specialist        Consultant   Environment
Hannah Koilpillai     Sr. Finance Officer             LOAFC        Finance
John Otieno Ogallo    Sr. Financial Mgmt Specialist   ECSPS        Finance
Danielle Malek        Counsel                         LEGEM        Legal
Janna Ryssakova       Social Development Specialist   ECSSD        Social Development
Josephine Kida        Program Assistant               ECSSD        Program Assistant

Supervision/ICR task team members

Arcadii Capcelea      Sr Environmental Specialist     ECSEN        Environmental Safeguards
Aliya Kim             Finanical Management Analyst    ECS03        Finance
Sunil Kumar Khosla    Lead Energy Specialist          ECSEG        Energy Economist
Aliya Karakulova      Operations Officer              ECSTR        Operations
Anara Akhmetova       Procurement Assistant           ECCKZ        Procurement
Arcadii Capcelea      Senior Environment Specialist   ECSEN        Environmental Safeguards
Imtiaz Hizkil         Sr Power Engineer               ECSEG        Power Engineer
Istvan Dobozi         Consultant                      MNSEG        Energy Economist
John Otieno Ogallo    Sr Financial Mgmt Specialist    ECSO3        Financial Management
Joseph Melitauri      Senior Operations Officer       ECSEG        Operations
Joseph Paul Formoso   Senior Finance Officer          CTRLA        Disbursement
Mirlan Aldayarov      Task Team Leader                ECSEG        Energy Economist
Nurbek Kurmanaliev    Procurement Specialist          ECSO2        Procurement
Ignacio Jauregui      Counsel                         LEGLE        Legal
Regina Nesiama        Senior Program Assistant        ECSSD        Program Assistant
Richard Berney        Consultant                      ECSEG        Energy Economist
Roxanne Hakim         Sr Anthropologist               ECSSO        Social Safeguards
Yelena Yakovleva      Team Assistant                  ECCKZ        Team Assistant
Yolanda Litan Gedse   Program Assistant               ECSSD        Program Assistant




                                           25
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands (including
                          No. of staff weeks
                                                       travel and consultant costs)
 Appraisal
 FY 09                     18.48                         $ 77,104
 FY 10                     2.30                          $ 17,611
 Sub Total                 20.78                         $ 94,715
 Supervision/ICR
 FY10                       6.32                         $ 53,009
 FY11                      10.90                         $ 79,734
 FY12                      11.37                         $ 113,099
 FY13                      14.21                         $99,452
 SubTotal:                 42.80                         $345,294




                                    26
                 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                 27
                 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                        28
           Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Under the accelerated industrial and innovative development program of the Government of
Kazakhstan (GOK), the Moinak Electricity Transmission Project was one of the important
strategic investment projects for the electric power industry.

The Project’s implementation was pursuant to the issue of GOK Decree No. 161 dated 22
February 2005 “On additional measures for development of hydroelectric industry in the
Republic of Kazakhstan” and GOK Decree No. 1143 dated 21 November 2005 “On construction
of Moinak hydroelectric power plant.” Relevant additional GOK measures included the Prime
Minister Order No. 147 dated 31 May 2007 “On approval of Action Plan for the development of
the electric power industry in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2007-2015” and the “List of electric
power facilities subject to upgrade, rehabilitation and extension,” as well as GOK No. 1129
dated 29 October 2010 “On approval of the programme for development of the electric power
industry for 2010-2014 and Order of the President No. 958 dated 19 March 2010 “On State
Programme of Accelerated Industrial and Innovative Development of Kazakhstan for 2010-
2014”.

The Moinak Electricity Transmission Project was considered to be of great regional and national
importance.

The main objective of the Project was to ensure the transmission of the electric power from the
300 MW Moinak hydropower plant (MHPP) constructed on the Charyn River in the Raimbek
district of the Almaty Oblast. The MHPP aimed to reduce capacity and electric energy deficit,
cover peak loads, and secure reliable electricity supply to the Almaty Oblast and Southern
Kazakhstan.

Project implementation covered the period 2009-2012.

All GOK-required expert assessments were performed and positive opinions were obtained for
the Feasibility Study of the Project. The key assessments were as follows:

       Sectoral expert assessment, Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources;
       State expert assessment, Republican State Enterprise GosExpertiza;
       Environmental expert assessment, Ministry of Environmental Protection;
       Bank expert assessment, Development Bank of Kazakhstan;
       Economic expert assessment, Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning; and.
       Financial expert assessment, Ministry of Finance.

On 14 November 2008 and 2 October 2009, public hearings on environmental protection were
held in the city of Almaty.

The following measures were included in the Project:

•   Construction of 220 kV OHTL financed from borrowed funds including:
     - Construction of 220 kV OHTL from 220 kV outdoor switch yard (OSY) at MHPP to
        220 kV Shelek substation [SS] (97.73 km);
     - Construction of 220 kV OHTL from 220 kV OSY at MHPP to 220 kV Robot SS
        (227.78 km); and


                                               29
      -   Construction of two 220 kV transmission lines from 220 kV OSY at MHPP to MHPP
          (first circuit: 0.484 km, second circuit: 0.553 km).

•   Construction and provision of the following additional facilities and equipment            from
    KEGOC's own:

      -   Construction of 220 kV OSY at MHPP;
      -   Rehabilitation and extension of 220 kV outdoor switchgear (OSG) at 220/110/10 kV
          Robot SS;
      -   Rehabilitation and extension of 220 kV OSG at 220/110/10 kV Shelek SS;
      -   Provision of required relay protection and automation devices as well as emergency
          automation; and
      -   Provision of dispatch and process control devices.

Under the Project, training courses were provided to KEGОС personnel. From 2011 to 2012, 18
employees of the company were trained in the course of the project implementation under the
contract with the vendor. From 2011 to 2012, 28 employees participated in factory tests of
transmission line equipment and FOCL.

Pursuant to the terms and conditions under which loan proceeds were provided by IBRD,
KEGОС developed an Environmental Management Plan (EMP). The plan was prepared in
compliance with IBRD requirements and legislative provisions of the Republic of Kazakhstan
relating to environment protection. As a result, the company implemented an effective
environment monitoring system and carried out the required mitigation actions at each stage of
the Project.

The national importance of the Project was highlighted by the fact that on 31 October 2012 the
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan made a site visit to assess the progress for the
construction of 220 kV high voltage transmission lines MHPP – Shelek SS.

The total amount of loan proceeds (US$48 million) was obtained from IBRD to finance the
Project, of which US$ 44.7 million was actually disbursed.

To liaise with IBRD and the main companies involved in the Project, a team of highly qualified
personnel specializing in technical, commercial, financial and communication issues was formed
within KEGOC.

One of the factors allowing successful Project implementation was the corporate and Project
governance in place in accordance with the best international practice.

KEGOC believes that to a large extent Project implementation was a success because of the
IBRD Project team, which consisted of highly professional specialists in finance, economics,
engineering and procurement. Thanks to the timely and professional assistance of the World Bank
specialists at all Project stages, it was possible to solve the encountered problems effectively and
in a timely manner.

Selection of the consulting company for procurement and Project management under the “turn-
key” contract (design, construction and commissioning of transmission lines) was carried out in
compliance with the rules and procedures of IBRD.



                                                30
The supply of high-voltage equipment and construction/assembly works at the SSs were financed
from KEGOC’s own funds.

In 2011, based on the audit results of the Integrated Management System of KEGOC, SO NDC,
nine branches of the interregional electric networks (MES) and Energoinform JSC, the Integrated
Management System of KEGOC were confirmed as complying with the requirements of ISO
9001-2008, ISO14001-2004 and OHSAS 18001-2007. The validity period of ISO 9001-2008 and
ISO14001-2004 certificates was extended for the next three years.

During implementation of the Project, KEGOC took into account and used the project
management and monitoring experience acquired during implementation of the Electricity
Transmission Rehabilitation Project and the second North-South Transmission Line Project
funded from IBRD loans.

Successful implementation of the Moinak and previous two projects as well as KEGОС’s
reputation as a reliable and financially stable partner, enabled the company to mobilize financial
resources from other international financial institutions to implement new investment projects.

Finally, in terms of lessons learned under the Project, the main issues to be taken into
consideration for future investment projects include the following:

-   In terms of time and cost efficiency, the best approach for large-scale and complex projects is
    turn-key contract.

-   During the prequalification of companies, the eligibility criterions should include the
    requirement of similar project experience outside the country of the potential contractor, as
    well as work experience in the given region and similar climatic conditions.

-   For the purpose of more effective procurement, it must be taken into account that
    achievement of the bidding stage deadlines (approval of prequalification evaluation reports
    [bid results], short-listing, etc.) is heavily affected by the bureaucratic procedures of IBRD.

-   Exchange rate fluctuations can result in an unplanned increase of expenses.

-   During preparation of tender documentation for the selection of contractors under the
    construction project, the corresponding standard IBRD documents are to be used. To bring
    the standard conditions of the tender document (the contract, in particular) into compliance
    with laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, there is a possibility to correct the general
    conditions by means of the special conditions. However, IBRD does not always approve the
    amendments proposed by KEGOC based on the previous lesson learnt during the selection of
    the contractor and implementation of the signed contracts. Therefore, it is advised that IBRD
    take more seriously into account the KEGOC’s proposed amendments, realizing that KEGOC
    and IBRD are mutually interested in the selection of an experienced contractor and
    implementation of the contracts in a timely manner within the allocated budget.

    In the general conditions of the contract, the possibility to apply penalties for late submission
    of the documentation and violation of delivery time of equipment and materials by the
    contractor (which may adversely affect the final completion date of Project facilities) shall be
    taken into account.



                                                 31
-   During Project preparation and implementation, the translation of materials (English/Russian)
    for KEGOC’s internal review and submission to the corresponding regulatory and oversight
    state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan is required. Therefore, in future the time for
    translation of documents during their preparation must be explicitly taken into account. The
    quality of translation is critical for effective interaction with the various Project partners and
    stakeholders, particularly with regard to the financial, legal and technical terminology.




                                                 32
          Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                         33
                         Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Project Appraisal Document
   Loan Agreement between IBRD and Joint Stock Company “Kazakhstan
   Electricity Grid Operating Company, dated November 12, 2009
   Guarantee Agreement between Republic of Kazakhstan and IBRD, dated November 12, 2009
   Project Implementation Plan
   Implementation Status Reports
   World Bank Mission Aide-Memoires
   KEGOC Annual Reports, 2007-2012
   Statistical Digest “Regions of Kazakhstan”, Statistical Agency of the Republic of
   Kazakhstan, 2011
   Integrated Safeguards Datasheet, August 2009
   Project Information Document, November 2008
   Environmental Management Plan, June 2009
   Land Acquisition Policy Framework, June 2009
   Kazakhstan Country Partnership Strategy for FY12-FY17
   Kazakhstan Country Partnership Strategy, FY05-FY11 Completion Report




                                           34
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 36700
                                                                                                                                                                                                    60°                                                                                                              70°                                                                                                           80°                                                                                           90°
                                                                        KAZAKHSTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RUSSIAN FEDERATION
 MOINAK ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To TUMEN

                                                                                        PROJECT COMPONENTS:
      FUTURE           EXISTING
                                  SUBSTATIONS:                                                  220 kV LINE                                                       NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                                       To KURGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TAVRICHESKAYA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PETROPAVLOVSK                                                                                                                                                                                   KAZAKHSTAN
                                   1150 kV                                                      SWITCHYARD                                                        INTERNATIONAL                                                                                                                                       (PP TETS-2)                                                                              To KARASUK
                                                                                                                                                                    BOUNDARIES                               TR.GRES                                                                                                                                                               IRTYSHSKAYA
                                   500 kV                                                       220 kV SUBSTATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AURORA                                                                                                                                                                         '
                                                                         FUTURE             EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To BARNAUL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ob
                                   220 kV                                                               TRANSMISSION LINES:
                                                                                                                                                                       To MAGNITOGORSK
                                  THERMAL POWER PLANTS                                                    1150 kV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KUSTANAISKAYA                                         KOKCHETAVSKAYA                                                                                                                                                    To BARNAUL
                                                                                                          500 kV
                                  HYDRO POWER PLANTS
                                                                                                          220 kV                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AKSU ES                                   RUTSOVSK
                                                                                                                                                                           To MAGNITOGORSK                                                                                                                                                                                                       PAVLODAR
                                                                        To GOLOVNAYA To KINEL                                                                                                                             SOKOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RUDNENSKAYA TETS                                                                      MAKINSK                                                                              KEZ
                                             To BAES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EKIBASTUZSKAYA                                                                                                                                                       50°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ir t
                                                                                                                                                                                                          LISAKOVSKAYA                                                                                                                                                                                                         h




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ys
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EGRES-1,2
                                                                                                                                          Ur a
50°                                                                                                                                           l                                         IR.GRES              ZHITIKARA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALTYNSARINO                                                       AGPP                                                                                                                                                                                   OSKEMEN
                                                                                                          UZLOVAYA                                             N.TROITSK                                                                                            ESSIL
                                                                         STEPNAYA                                GTES KPK                                                           ORSK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BULAKSKAYA HPP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ASTANA
                                                                                                        URALSKAYA TETS                                                                                                                                                                                                AKMTETS-1
                                                          PRAVOBEREZHNAYA                                                                             ULKE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS-18                       SHHPP
                                                                                                                                       GTS AKTURBO                   KIMPERSAI                                                                                                                                          BATYS                                                                                                                                                                 U-LHPP
                                                                                Zhaiy




                                                                                                                                              ATETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AKMTETS-3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHERBAKOVSKAYA                                                                               DOSTYK                                              NURA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHYGYS
                                                                                     k (Ural)




                                                                                                                     GTES SNSP “AKTOBEMUNAIGAS”                                                                                                                                                                                               OSAKAROVKA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ZPMK
                                                                                                                            KANDYAGASHSKAYA GTES                                                                                                                                                                                                             ZHARYK
                                                                                                                                                      CHILISAI                                                                                              VOSTOCHNAYA                                                                         KAR.GRES-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KAR.TETS-4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lake
                                                                             INDER                                                                           ZHANAZHOLSKAYA GTES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Zaisan

                                                                                                            MAKAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   K A Z A K H S T A N                                                                                                                                                                                                  AYAGUZ
               Vo
                  lg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AKTOGAI
                 a




                                                               ATETS                             GTES AGIP KCO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BALKHASH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AGADYR
                                                 ATYRAU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SS


                                                       GTES KASHAGAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                ZHEZKAZGAN                                                      KARAZHAL                     MOINTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BALKHASHSKAYA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BALKHASHSKAYA TETS
                                                                                                            KULSARY                                                                                                                                                                                      ZHEZKAZGANSKAYA TETS
                                                                                            TENGIZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ARALSKAYA                                                                                                                                                                             Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SARY-SHAGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Balkash                              TALDYKORGANSKAYA TETS
                                                                                  GTES TSHO                                                                                                                                                                                                       KUMKOL
                                                                                (144,480,PVP)                                                                                                                             AITEKE-BI                                                               GTES KUMKOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (NOVOKAZALINSK)                                                                                                                                                                                             For detail, see inset below left
                                                                GTES KALAMKAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BALKHASHSKAYA TETS
                                                              KARAZHANBAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TALDYKORGANSKAYA SS
                                                                                                                        BEINEU                                                     Aral                                                                                                                                                                                          YUKGRES                                                                    ZSCHA SS
                                                                                                                                                                                   Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Altyn-Emel
                                                           AKTAUSKAYA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   National Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KERBULAKSKAYA                SARYOZEK SS
                                                               AES                                                                                                                                                                                                         KZYL-ORDINSKAYA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HPP           KAPCHAGAISKAYA HPP 220kV TRANSMISSION LINES
                                             AKTAU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHINA               GPP-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ROBOT SS SHELEK SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHU-500                                                                   Charyn National Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KOTETS-6                                                                                                                                                      ALMATY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KOGTETS                                                                                                                                                                                         SWITCHYARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ATETS-3 SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ZAPADNAYA                                   MOINAK HPP
                                                                                                                                                                 TALDYKORGANSKAYA SS                                                                                                                                           KENTAU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KENSAI SS
                                                                         UZEN                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sy                                                       ZHAMBYL             ZHAMBYLSKAYA GRES
                                                                                                                                                                   ZSCHA SS                                                                                                              r-   D                                                          BURNOYE                                                                                   ERMENSAI SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BISHKEK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BISHKEK                                                       Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Issyk-Kul                                            CHINA
                                                                                                                                                      SARYOZEK SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K-BALTY

                                  Caspian                                                                                                                                      Altyn-Emel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TULKUBAS                                            To KURPSAISKAYA HPP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TETS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        yn
                                                                                                                                KERBULAKSKAYA                                   National                                                                                                                                                 SHYMKENT                                                                                                 Nar
AZERBAIJAN
                                      Se a
                                                                                                                                     HPP                                          Park                                                                                                                                                      SHTETS-1,2,3                                   KYRGYZ                                                                                                                                           40°

40°
           BAKU                                                                                                                         KAPCHAGAISKAYA HPP
                                                                                                                                       NO. 62 SS           SHELEK
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Charyn
                                                                                                                                                                                                            National
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                         220kV TRANSMISSION SS                                              Park                                                                                                                        TASHKENT
                                                 TU RKME NISTAN                                                                     ROBOT
                                                                                                                                    SS
                                                                                                                                                                                      LINES                                                                                              SHARDARINSKAYA HPP                       TASH.GRES


                                                                                                                                 ATETs-3 SS     PROJECT AREA                                                                                 UZBEKISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                             0             100             200         300
                                                                                                                                                                                                SWITCHYARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FERUZ
                                                                                                                                                        KENSAI SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                            MOINAK HPP                                                                                                              TASHKENT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank. The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other
                                                                                                                                        ERMENSAI SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  information shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any judgment on the legal status of
               50°                                                                                                                                                   KYRGYZ REP.                                                                                                                                         TAJIKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               70°                                                                                any territory, or any endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       JULY 2009
