                                                                IPP606
                                              A PPROVED BY


                                                                 gement Boa rd
                                                ~'8ob4<l~J,.Q£.l~-B. Kazhiyev

                                            ~~~~~-r~-r-----20




                             1. Project Description
The Moinak Electricity Transmission Project (hereinafter referred to as 'the
Project'), financed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (hereinafter refen·ed to as ' IBRD') and KEGOC, is carried out in
accordance with:
1) 2010-20 14 State Programme for Accelerated Industrial and Innovative
   Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan approved by Kazakhstan
   Presidential decree no. 958, dated 19 March 2010.
2) 2007-2015 Kazakhstan Electric Power Sector Development P lan approved
   by Prime Minister Ordinance no. 14 7, dated 31 May 2007.
3) 2010-20 14 Kazakhstan Power Sector Development Programme approved by
   resolution of the Kazakhstan Government no. 1129, dated 29 October 20 I 0.
4) 2007-2015 List of Power Facilities Subject to Rehabilitation, Modernisation
   and Extension, including Construction of New Power Faci lities approved by
   order of the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources of the Republic of
   Kazakhstan no. 153, dated 26 June 2007 .
                             1.1 Project Objectives
The main objectives of the subject project are to:
   •   ensure power de livery from the 300-MW Moinak Hydropower Plant
       (HPP) under construction on the Sharyn River in Raimbek District of
       Almaty Oblast;
   •   reduce electricity sh01iages, and help cover the peak load; and
   •   ensure the reliability of the electricity supply to consumers     tn   Almaty
       Oblast and South Kazakhstan in general.
                            1.2 Main Compo nents of the Project
. 2. 1 Construction of the 220 kV overhead transmission line (OHTL), which
:ncludes:
    1) construction of a 220 kV OHTL from the 220 kV Moinak HPP's outdoor
       switchyard (OSY) to the 220 kV Shelek substation (SS).
   2) construction of a 220 kV OHTL from the 220 kV Moinak HPP OSY to
      the 220 kV Robot SS; and
   3) construction of two 220 kV OHTLs from the 220 kV Moinak HPP OSY
      to the Moinak HPP .
. _.2 The construction of an OSY and rehabilitation of substations, which
 ncl udes:
    1) construction of a 220 kV OSY at Moinak HPP;
   2) rehabilitation of the 220 kV OSY at the 2201110110 kV Robot SS; and
   3) rehabilitation of the 220 kV OSY at the 220/ 110110 kV Shelek SS.


                                       1.3 Project Financing

I For the construction of OSY, modernization and rehab ilitation of
  substations, and land a cquisition*- KZT 3.1 billion out of the own fund s
  (including the funds committed from the state budget for the subsequent
  increase of KEGOC authorized capital).
~ The construction of220 kV OHTL Moinak HPP- 220 kV Robot SS and 220
  kV OHTL Moinak HPP- 220 kV Shelek SS- USD 48 million out of IBRD
  loan proceeds (against sovereign guarantee issued by the Kazakhstan
  Government) .
 .1'\.EG OC's funds are used for land acquisition and payment of compensation to land users.


1. Activities Involving Land Acquisition. Development of Land Acquisition
                     Policy F ra mework and Land Acquisitio n Plan
-:-here are two main sources used to identify the affected land plots: 1) the
 ~ urrent land cadastre and information on the land use supported at the stage of
:-outes selection and approval by the subsidiary state enterprise Research and
Development Centre of Land Resources and Management, and 2) survey works
.:arried out by the design company, which defined all the land users located
  . ithin the existing 14 m right-of-way during the OHTL construction
  temporary al ienation).
The exact amount of land acqu isition to be permanently used fo r the OHTL will
oe known only after the completion of construction and erection works. In this
:-egard, the Land Acquisition Policy Framework (hereinafter referred to as ' the
                                                                                               2
      LAPF') was elaborated in 2009 to describe the regulatory/legal framework of
      Kazakhstan, land acquisition practices, involuntary land acquisition and
      resettlement, entitlement and compensation, grievance mechanism and other
      related matters. The main mechanism for entitlement and compensation are
      described in Appendix 1.
      This specific Land Acquisition Plan (hereinafter referred to as 'the LAP') has
      been developed on the basis of the LAPF and describes the measures that will
      be taken to ensure that the impacts relating to the land withdrawal for the
      construction period and for the permanent use to install OHTL towers are
      mitigated.
      The transmission lines and 220 kV OSY of the Moinak HPP are constructed on
      the land parcels of the Almaty oblast (regional administrative unit) including
      withdrawal ofthe parcels from agricultural use. The 220 kV Shelek SS and 220
      kV Robot SS will be rehabilitated and extended within the existing SS
      boundaries. However some additional land parcels adjacent to the 220 kV
      Robot SS will be withdrawn to extend an existing bay at the SS.
      The route of the 220 kV transmission line from the 220 kV OSY at Moinak
      HPP to the 220 kV Robot SS passes through the Raimbek, Enbekshikazakh,
      Talgar and Ili districts of Almaty oblast. The length of the 220 kV transmission
      line is 227.78 km.
      The route of the 220 kV transmission line from the 220 kV OSY at Moinak
      HPP to the 220 kV Shelek SS passes through the Raimbek and Enbekshikazakh
      districts of the Almaty oblast. The projected 220 kV transmission line crosses
      pasture lands and 20 km of the ploughed land along the canal at the approach to
      the 2201110 kV Shelek SS. The transmission line route also crosses the Sharyn
      and Shelek rivers, a 220 kV existing line and a motor road. The route length is
      97.73 km.
      The route of two 220 kV lines which connect the Moinak HPP with the 220 kV
      OSY Moinak HPP is laid within the territory of the Raimbek district of Almaty
      oblast. The 220 kV route length is 1.037 km.
      The above-mentioned routes do not cross any mineral deposits of economic
      value or specially protected natural zones.
Total withdrawn lands:

Table 2.1. Area of lands withdrawn for temporary and permanent use broken by the
OHTL routes and substation sites

~0.       Description          Temporary use for the          Permanent use for the
                               construction period (the       operation period (private
                               right of the temporary         property title), ha
                               short-term land use (lease),
                               ha
I         220 kY OHTL 220                175.972                       3,012*
                                                                                          3
         kV OSY of Moinak
         HPP - 220 kV Shelek
         ss
2        220 kV OHTL 220
         kV OSY of Moinak
                                              379.1664                           5.906*
         HPP - 220 k V Robot
.,
         ss
.)       220 kV OSY            of
                                            Not required                        4,9936**
         Moinak HPP
~        220 k V Robot SS                   Not required                        0,405**
Total                                        555.1393                          14,31 66 h a

 *) the updated estimated area of the withdrawn land for the permanent use will be specified in
the land use plan upon completion of the construction.

(* *)the land plots acquired for the substation site (pri vate property title). See Append ix 3 hereto.

         Table 2.2 N umber of the affected p er sons by the districts (as of May 20 12)
~0.      District               T otal affected p er sons     Compensa tion p a id
1        Raimbek                20                             **
'1       Enbekshikazakh         222                            **
-
.,
.)       Tal gar                13                             **
~        Iii                    58                             **
'1
                                .,                             **
         Kapshagai town         .)

Tota l                          3 16(*)
 *) of which 170 land users (permanent and private ownership) and 146 leaseholders (temporary
land use). See Appendix 2 hereto.

 "'*)compensation payment agreements are under concl usion.

Detailed description of compensation amounts by the land users is given in Appendix 2 hereto.

The project implementation affects 316 persons of different activities: vegetable
farming - 40 persons, crops cultivation - 4 persons, soy cultivation- 6 persons and
cultivation of perennial grasses (hay and lucerne) - the rest. The detailed
information on specific land of each land user and the compensation amount due is
given in Appendix 2 hereto.
The OHTL route passes the agricultural lands. The crop harvest on the lands
located within the right-of-way will be limited during the construction of OHTL.
The OHTL route does not affect the lands, where the whole plot is used for:
I) building of residential real estates, structures, apartment and mul ti-storey
houses, and indiv idual dwellings with the attached lands;
2) public buildings used and meant for health care fac ilities, cultural fac ilities,
trading, catering, household servicing, commercial activities, and preschool
institutions, schools of secondary, technical and profess ional secondary, post-
secondary and higher education, as well as for administrative agencies, research
institutions, religious buildings and other business buildings, facil ities and
constructions;
                                                                                                      4
3) industrial buildings used and meant for industrial facilities, utilities and
storehouses to support their operation.

   Table 2.3 below shows the categories of people affected by the construction of
   220 kV OHTL Moinak HPP - Shelek SS and 220 kV OHTL Moinak HPP -
   Robot SS and categories of people not available under this route according to
   the LAPF basic matrix given in Appendix 1 hereto:
   Table 2.3
    Asset      S pecifi cation s     Affected People               220 kY OHTL MOI NAK H P P-
                                                                           S helek a nd
                                                                   220 kY OHTL M OINAK HPP-
                                                                             R obot

Permanent Loss

Arable Land    All land losses Owner                           • Affected by t he r o ute
               irrespective of
               severity     of Leaseholder                     • Affected by t he r ou te
               impact
                               Sharecropper                    •   ot affected by the route

                                   Agricultural worker         •   ot affected by the route

                                   Encroachers/squatters       •   ot affected by the route

               Severe impact       Owner. leaseholder          •   ot affected by the route
               -more    than
               10% of land          harecropper                •   ot affected by the route
               loss

Residential                        Owner                       •   ot affected by the route
and
Commercial                         Renter, leaseholder         •   ot affected by the route
Land
                                   Squatter                    •   ot affected by the route

Grazing                            Herder s                    • Affected by t he route
la nd

Buildings                          Owners of permanent         •   ot affected by the route
and                                structures
 tructures

                                   Owners             of       •   'ot affected by the route
                                   temporary. structures
                                   (kiosks. stalls)

C rops         Crops affected      Owner            and        • Affected by th e route
                                   Leaseh older
                                                           I
                                                                                                5

               I
3) industrial buildings used and meant for industrial facilities, utilities and
storehouses to support their operation.

   Table 2.3 below shows the categories of people affected by the construction of
   220 kV OHTL Moinak HPP - Shelek SS and 220 kV OHTL Moinak HPP -
   Robot SS and categories of people not available under this route according to
   the LAPF basic matrix given in Appendix 1 hereto:
   Table 2.3
    Asset      S pecifi cation s     Affected People               220 kY OHTL MOI NAK H P P-
                                                                           S helek a nd
                                                                   220 kY OHTL M OINAK HPP-
                                                                             R obot

Permanent Loss

Arable Land    All land losses Owner                           • Affected by t he r o ute
               irrespective of
               severity     of Leaseholder                     • Affected by t he r ou te
               impact
                               Sharecropper                    •   ot affected by the route

                                   Agricultural worker         •   ot affected by the route

                                   Encroachers/squatters       •   ot affected by the route

               Severe impact       Owner. leaseholder          •   ot affected by the route
               -more    than
               10% of land          harecropper                •   ot affected by the route
               loss

Residential                        Owner                       •   ot affected by the route
and
Commercial                         Renter, leaseholder         •   ot affected by the route
Land
                                   Squatter                    •   ot affected by the route

Grazing                            Herder s                    • Affected by t he route
la nd

Buildings                          Owners of permanent         •   ot affected by the route
and                                structures
 tructures

                                   Owners             of       •   'ot affected by the route
                                   temporary. structures
                                   (kiosks. stalls)

C rops         Crops affected      Owner            and        • Affected by th e route
                                   Leaseh older
                                                           I
                                                                                                5

               I
Trees             Trees affected     All affected persons,     •   ot affected by the route
                                     including squatters

Business          Temporary or Business owner                  •   ot affected by the route
                  permanent
                  loss      of
                  business

Employment        Temporary or All affected persons,           •   ot affected by the route
earnmgs           permanent     including squatters
from      a       loss       of
business          employment

Temporary loss

Land       used   Subject       to   Owner     (private   or   •   ot affected by the route
for               negoti ation       public)
construction      between
activities        owner       and
                  contractor


                       3. Activities Falling Unde r the Scope of the LAP
    3. 1 Claim the land for construction in the authorised bodies.
    3.2 Select the land parcel and obtain no objection from the competent
    committee (which consists of members of statutory bodies) granting the
    requested land.
    3.3 Develop a land-use plan including a description of the exact area of the land
    parcel to be provided along the route of220-kV transmission li nes.
    3.4 Update the cartographic materials.
    3.5 Agree with the land users on the temporary acquisition ofthe land.
    3.6 Conduct a soil survey to prepare the updates for land tax calculation, update
    the compensation for losses of agricultural production and estimate the
    appraised value of land to be paid to the budget of the Republic of Kazakhstan .
    3. 7 Compile the data required to prepare the draft decision of the akimat (the
    local executive authority) on the acquisition of the specified land.
    3.8 Obtain the resolution of akimat on land al location.
    3.9 Obtain identification document for the specific land parcel.
    3.10 Conclude agreements with land users (in accordance with the damage
    estimates). The compensation shall be paid in two stages:
        1) Pay the damages for withdrawal of land for the time of construction.



                                                                                              6
   2) Purchase the land under the transmission-line-tower feet; the area of such
      land is determined in accordance with the land selection certificate when
      the land is transferred to KEGOC' ownership.
The compensation amount shall include the fo llowing:
   1) Cost of land plot or land ownership right;
   2) Costs relating to land reclamation, use, protective measures, soil fertility
      increase with their inflation taken into account;
   3) All damages of the land owner (land user) due to the land withdrawal
      (costs for soil cultivation, crop, seeds, uncropped harvest);
   4) Lost profit.
Compensation payments shall be made prior to the impact and according to the
appraisal resu lts with no deductions for fees and taxes .
3.11 Register the land use rights with the authorised government bod ies.


                            4. Lega l Basis for LAP
The LAPF noted that the relevant main regulatory/ legal acts are the
Constitution, the Land Code, and the Housing Relations Law of Kazakhstan.
However, since this project does not require any resettlement (as
highlighted in LAPF), this LAP does not describe the provisions of the
Housing Re lations Law of the Republic of Kazakhsta n.
Together with the legal acts listed above, the land acquisition is governed by
the:
   1) Appraisal Activities Law of Kazakhstan.
   2) International Valuation Standards Committee of the International
      Valuation Standards IVS 2007.
   3) Standards Association of Appraisers of Kazakhstan.
   4) Kazakhstan valuation standards: Standards for Evaluation ' Basic Terms
      and Definitions' approved by order no. 26 of the Acting Minister of
      Justice of Kazakhstan, dated 28 January 2010; evaluation standards
      'evaluation of private property' , approved by order no. 325 of the Acting
      Minister of Justice of Kazakhstan on 28 January 201 0; valuation
      standards, 'Valuation of real estate' , approved by order no. 326 of the
      Acting Minister of Justice of Kazakhstan, dated 28 January 201 0;
      ' Requirements for form and content of the evaluation rep01t', approved
      by order no. 327 of Acting Minister of Justice of Kazakhstan, dated 28
      January 2010.
The LAPF refers to the key principles of the World Bank OP 4.12 which shall
be respected in the acquisition of land for the purpose of the project. These
                                                                                7
principles in general are in line with the applicable law of Kazakhstan. In the
event of a discrepancy between the spirit of OP 4.12 and national law, OP 4.12
should be accepted as the minimum standard and all land acquisition activities
financed and implemented as part of this project (regardless of the source of
funding) should abide by the requirements of OP 4.12, unless the national law
requires a higher or more demanding standard, in which case that standard may
be implemented.
When withdrawing land plots, KEGOC adhered to the following principles:
Fully excluded any resettlement and no person was resettled/relocated under the
project.
Compensation is made giving equal consideration to women and men.
Compensation will enable affected persons to restore their pre-project incomes
and standard of living.
Affected persons are entitled to be compensated at full replacement cost for
their lost assets, incomes and businesses, including temporary losses or impacts,
without adjustments for depreciation.
Affected persons will be consulted.
Lack of formal title or use agreement does not bar affected persons from
entitlements or ass istance required to achieve the objectives of the IBRD policy.
Special attention will be given to households headed by women and other
vulnerable persons and appropriate assistance will be provided to assure that
their living standards are maintained or improved .
Land alienation is executed as part of the Project and fully funded out of
KEGOC own funds .
Compensation payments shall be made prior to the impact and according to the
appraisal results with no deductions for fees and taxes.


   5. Provisions for Calculation of Compensation fo r Diffe rent Affected
                                  Parties
The land owner compensation amount was calculated by KazYurAuditCentre
independent appraiser based on the contract signed with KEGOC, the appraisal
results are given in Appendix 2 hereto:
In calculations the appraisal company took into account the fact that the 220 k V
OHTL route affects agricultural lands only: 1) arab le land; 2) grazing land; 3)
crops; 4) state fund land (reserve lands).
Table 5.1 shows only the losses and compensation measures to be taken under
the Project.


                                                                                 8
         Table 5.1 Entitlement
I          Asset           Specifications           Affected People              220 kV OHTL MOINAK HPP-
I                                                                                        Shelek and

I
I
                                                                                 220 kV OHTL MOINAK HPP-
                                                                                           Robot

    Permanent Loss

    Arable Land            All land losses Owner                               • Cash compensation for affected
                           irrespective of                                        land at replacement cost (market
                           severity     of                                        value) with no deductions for
                           impact                                                taxes, transaction, registration or
                                                                                 transfer costs

                                                  Leaseholder                  • Cash compensation, to the
                                                                                 market value of gross yield (3 -
                                                                                 year     average);     with     no
                                                                                 deductions for taxes, transaction,
                                                                                 registration or transfer costs;
                                                                                 renewed lease in an alternative
                                                                                 plot;

    Grazing land                                  Herders                      • Acceptable alternative land for
                                                                                 grazing*

    Crops                  Crops affected         Owner                and     • Crop compensation m cash at
                                                  Leaseholder                    full market rate for one year's
                                                                                 gross harvest - paid to owners
                                                                                 and tenants based on their
                                                                                 specific          sharecropping
                                                                                 agreement

    • According to the Entitlement and Compensation Frame\\ ork under the LAPF for grazing land to be '' ithdra" n the right of
    ~om pensation   through granting an acceptable alt~.:rnati•e gra1.ing land was pro' ided. llowever. on I) a small portion of grazing
    agricultural land (not more than 0.2°o of total land use area) is withdra"n for permanent usc. In this regard taking into account
    the small siz.: alternative pasture land for compensation "ithdrawn upon construction completion and taking into account
    unavailability of such areas in the territory of the region. it was d.:cided that KEGOC would compensate the damages of land user
    111 cash equivalem \\hen approving the routes ''ith land users. The compensation calculation m~.:thod is given in this section of the
    LAP.

    Table 5.2 shows categories of lands and compensation ca lculation method:
                    Land category                                     Co mpensation calculation method

                                                            I. Crop yield * crop area * purchase price - I 0%.
                                                            (for         temporary           land        use).
    Agricultural lands (arable land, grazi ng               2.Crop yield * crop area * purchase price) I total
    land, crops)                                            land use area (data for item 3):
                                                            3. V =IV nl (1 +i) n (for permanent land use per
                                                             I m2).




                                                                                                                                      9
                                              in accordance with the basic rates approved by
    State fund (reserve land)
                                              Kazakhstan Government Resolution No. 890
                                              dated 2 September 2003). The calculation is made
                                              b an authorized land mana ement bod .


    The following initial data (Table 5 .3.) were used to calculate potential lost profit
    from the withdrawn land plot used for growing an agricultural crop:

    Ta ble 5.3. Sources.


                Desc ription                                       So urce

    Type of growing crop on the land
                                            Land user plot inspection report
    user area.
                                            www.kam.kz
    Cost of agricultural product (at cost
                                            www.kstnews.kz
    price and purchase price), KZT
                                            www.kazakh-zerno.kz

                                            Local executive authorities references, www.kazakh-
    Crop yield, centner/ I ha
                                            zerno. kz and         www.almatyobl.stat.kz
I
    Losses                                  10% according to the appraisal




    T he A nticipa ted Gross Yield (lost profit from the land plots to be withdrawn for
    temporary land use for construction period) shall be calculated as per formula:
    Crop yield * crop area * purchase price- 10%, in KZT.
    This compensation shall be paid to the owner of the land plot and to the
    leaseholder if the land plot is under the lease.
                                                                        2
    The va lue of the lost profit from the land plot of 1 m a r ea to be withdrawn
    for t he perman ent use is calcu lated as follows :
    V 0 =(Crop yield * crop area* purchase price) I total area of land use, in KZT.
    Calc ulatio n of curr ent va lues w ithin th e fo recas ted pe riod
    The value of appraisal object comprises the current va lue of cash flows during the
    fo recast period. Cash flows shall be calculated for each of the several future
    periods.
    The formula for calculation of the given current value of return on sales of
    agricultural crop upon the completion of the forecasted period is as follows:
    V =IVn/( l + i) n ,
    where:
                                                                                                  10
V 0 = value ofthe object to be appraised in 2011;
V n - current value of the object to be appraised;
i -periodic interest rate;
n - number of periods.
Estimated inflation based on the official forecast for 2011 from the National Bank
of Kazakhstan is 6-8%. Inflation rates for the following years are accepted as 7%.
This compensation shall also be paid to the owner of the land plot and to the
leaseholder if the land plot is under the lease when KEGOC purchases the land plot
to the ownership from the land user for installation and maintenance of towers.
The evaluated land cost is made up of the cmTent cost of cash flows for the
forecast period, i.e. when providing the compensation the leaseholder will be paid
the lost profits for the remainder of the lease term. Based on the results of
leasehold land examination under the Project such period makes from 33 to 48
years. The renewed lease option is applied to the Project upon completion of the
construction within the 14m wide right-of-way except the land alienated for the
permanent use under towers.
Land plots acquired from state fund (reserve lands) to the ownership of
KEGOC shall be purchased by the authorized body in accordance with the basic
rates approved by Resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan
No. 890 dated 02 September 2003. The value of the land plots purchased from the
state is specified in Appendix 3 hereto.
Compulsory payments to the budget of the Republic of Kazakhstan, agricultural
and forest land losses due to the change of target purpose of the land plot shall be
paid in accordance with the base rates approved by Resolution of the Government
of the Republic of Kazakhstan No. 1037 dated 08 October 2003 (Appendix 3
hereto).


                6. Institutional Set-up for LAP Implementation
To acqUire reliable land value estimates, K +EGOC engaged specialised state
organisation (AF DGP AlmatyNPTsZem) and independent apprmser
(KazYurAuditCentre LLP).
State branch enterprise of the Research and Development Centre for Land
Resources and Management is the authorized body in the sphere of land
management, state land cadastres and land monitoring. Thi s authorised body is
engaged to:
l)       develop a land use plan (survey unit);
2)       prepare maps and schedules of withdrawn land (cadastre administration
unit);
3)       conduct a soil survey (research and monitoring unit), which includes the
following works to be paid to the state budget:
                                                                                 11
          estimation of agricultural losses;
          calculation of the quality score attributed to land, based on which the
land use taxes are determined;
          estimation of rental rates for land use;
         estimation of the cadastral (estimated) cost of land plot shall be made
upon withdrawal of the land plot to the KEGOC 's ownership.
Independent apprai ser (KazYurAuditCentre LLP) performed estimation as follows:
1)    the lost profi t and damage due to withdrawal of land plot for the construction
period (results are g iven in Appendi x 2 hereto);
2)     the fair value of the land plot under towers to transfer the land from the land
user to KEGOC 's ownership after completion of the construction (results are given
in Appendix 2 hereto).


                               7. G rievance C hannels
The work for concluding the contracts for payment of compensation to the land
users under the approved and selected route is being currently conducted.
Provisions shall be made for grievances which can take place under payment of
compensations pertaining to evaluation, payment terms and project procedures. All
grievances related to the Project can be submitted to KEGOC in th e form of
application addressed to the Project Engineer of KEGOC to fax: 8-7 1-72-97-04-5 1
or placed on the website: www. kegoc.kz
When complaints are recei ved, KEGOC shall take steps to resolve the di sputed
ISSUeS.

If the dispute cannot be resolved by KEGOC through the channe l detai led above,
then the affected party is entitled to seek further assistance through the channels of
local self-government and failing settleme nt in two weeks, the di spute shall be
settled judicially.


                           8. Monitoring and Evaluation
Compensation w ill be paid at each stage after the agreeme nt is signed by the land
user:
Stage 1 - compensation to the land user for the losses due to a temporary
\\'ithdrawal of land for the construction period.
Stage 2 - compensation to the land user for the losses associated with the
\\ ithdrawa l of the land plot to KEGOC's ownership.
Experts from KEGOC will mon itor the results of evalu ation, payment of
compensation and effi ciency of land users' gri evances consideration twice a year.

                                                                                    12
                         9. Con ultation and Di clo ure
Prior to commencement of construction, KEGOC shall inform the public and the
competent authorities through the mass media about the planned construction in
the affected region, and conduct public consultations with regard to the
construction project.
KEGOC shall also inform each landholder about the planned construction at the
stage of selection and approval of the route. A year before the stm1 of construction,
a land user will receive an additional notice with regard to the proposed period of
the construction project.
Contractors during the construction also coordinate with the land user the certain
dates for work at the plot of the land user.
The provisions covered by this LAP, to the effect of general availability, have
been placed on KEGOC's website: www.kegoc.kz




                                                                                  13
                                                                                           Appendix 1 to LAP
                     Table 1: Entitlement and Compensation Framework
      Asset            Specifi cat ions         Affected People               Co mpen sation Entitleme nts

Permanent Loss

-\rablc Land         All land losses       0" ncr                  •     Land-for- land compensation with plots of
                     irrespective     of                                 equal value and productivity to the plots
                     severity of impact                                  lost
                                                                   Or:

                                                                   •     Cash compensation fo r affected land at
                                                                         replacement cost (market value) with no
                                                                         deductions       for    taxes. transaction,
                                                                         registration or transfer costs

                                                                   •   If the residual portion of a plot is too small
                                                                        to usc. the \•hole plot is purchased and
                                                                        compensated or exchanged

                                           Leaseholder             •     Cash compensation, to the market value of
                                                                         gross yield (3 -year aYcrage); renewed lease
                                                                         in alternative plot

                                           Sharecropper            •     Cash compensation. to the market va lue of
                                                                         lost harvest share

                                           Agricultural \\Orkcr    •     Cash compensation equal to salar; in cash
                                                                         and kind for the rest of the agricultural year

                                           Encroachers/squatters   •     Cash compensation equal to the market
                                                                         value of the lost harvest

                     Severe impact -       Owner. leaseholder      •     Cash compensation equal to the market
                     more than 10% of                                    value of two crop years
                     land loss
                                           Sharecropper            •     Cash compensation equal to twice market
                                                                         value of lost harvest share



Residential    and
l. om mercial Land
                                           Owner                   .     Land for land compensati on,
                                                                         comparable in value to lost plot. or
                                                                                                                   plot


                                                                   •     Cash compensation for affected land at full
                                                                         replacement cost free of taxes. registration
                                                                         and transfer costs

                                           Renter. leaseholder     •     1- 3 months· aiiO\\ance

                                           Squatter                •     Free or leased plot on State land

 rratmg land                               I lcrders               •     Acceptable alternative land for gra11ng




                                                                                                                          14
Buildings      and                             0" ners of permanent          •     !louse-for-house swap; if replacement is
 tructures                                     structures                          lower value. cash compensation for the
                                                                                   difference
                                                                             Or:
                                                                             •     Cash compensation at replacement rates for
                                                                                   affected structure and other fixed assets.
                                                                                   based on material cost. construction and
                                                                                   labour costs, free of salvageable materials.
                                                                                   depreciation and transaction costs: cost of
                                                                                   lost water and utility connections included
                                                                                   in compensation

                                               Owners of temporary.          •     Approved site to n.:-locate
                                               structures (kiosks. stalls)

Crops                    Crops aiTected        All affected persons.         •     Crop compensation in cash at full market
                                               includmg squatters                  ratc for one ycar·s gross harvest - paid to
                                                                                   O\\ ners and tenants based on their speci lie
                                                                                   sharccropping agreement

I rees                   Trees affected        All affected persons.         •     Cash compensation reflecting income
                                               including squatters                 replacement: trees· economic value based
                                                                                   on age category and valued at gross market
                                                                                   value of one year income times the number
                                                                                   of years to grow a tree to similar
                                                                                   productivity. plus the purchase price of
                                                                                   seed! ings and starting materials

Business                 Tcmporar}      or     13usincss O\\ ncr             •     If loss is permanent. cash compensation
                         permanent loss of                                         equal to one year"s income: if temporary.
                         business                                                  cash compensation for the period of loss.
                                                                                   Compensation based on tax declaration or
                                                                                   official minimum salary
                     I
! mpiO)ment              I emporary      or    All afl\:cted persons.        •     If loss 1s permanent. cash compcnsation
.:arnings from a         perm an em loss of    Including squatters                 equal one year"s income
"~Usi ncss               cmplo) mcnt
                                                                             •     If temporary. allowance for lost wages
                                                                                   during imerruption. tor up to three months

Temporary Loss

   and used    for       Subject          to   Owner                   or    • Contractor pays cash compcnsation at local
.onstruction             negotiation           public)                             commercial rental rates lor duration of usc
..tctivitics             bet ween owner and
                         contractor                                          •     Land restored to original status at end of
                                                                                   rental period
                                                                             •     En\ironmental     safeguard    rcquiremems
                                                                                   appl)




                                                                                                                                   15
          AJ>J>endix 2 t o LAP      I          I                                           I                        I          I         I           I
                             I      I          I         I          I           I          I            I           I          I         I           I
                  Inform ation on lmul plo t~ widuh mvn for constl'\tc tion of tlte OHIL b roken <  lown b y L-utd u~er.> in Ahnnty Ob last tutder dte Moin a k
                                                                       Ele c uicity Tra nsrnission Project



                                         =                           ~                                                                 .,            J!
                                                                                                                                                                 ~
                                                                                                                                                                                   ~ ]~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .. .,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ~.e .;i...,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     'i!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     _t-
                Land user
               name ( full
                 name,
                                        ·§>
                                        ...:           ~.,
                                                       ....
                                                                     .,
                                                                     ...
                                                                     ..
                                                                     l:
                                                                                      = ....
                                                                                     ,a
                                                                                    ~ -~               1
                                                                                                        1:1            .,
                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                       .,
                                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                                                                       f              ~
                                                                                                                                                                 aJ!
                                                                                                                                                                 "" .:-
                                                                                                                                                                 ::!l!!
                                                                                                                                                                                   .a ~ l!
                                                                                                                                                                                   !] ~:~        i
                                                                                                                                                                                                 -~A.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                j!l~ r~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                :;a ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                =... ... =~          ·
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ~


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tt ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .!l ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                    8
                                                                                                                                                                 "' ..
                                                                                                                                                                                   i ~l]                                             ...
                                        j
    ~                                                                @'              ;sf                                                              1:1
                                                                                                                                                                 g                                             ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ·!:ti ~,a~                          !
                                                       l
                                                                                                                       !!
               production
              complex (PC)              15                            =             "02'
                                                                                                       ]
                                                                                                                       1                ...
                                                                                                                                        2'
                                                                                                                                       ....
                                                                                                                                                      !!
                                                                                                                                                     ....
                                                                                                                                                     .a          ...a-                           "!! ~            ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                               5.; 8s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ~

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ~



               or peasant               ~                            ,a
                                                                                     ~ ...
                                                                                                        ~
                                                                                                        -:1            ...              a
                                                                                                                                       ...                       .!!               .~ .
                                                                                                                                                                                   ... _a l!     -;;
                                                                                                                                                                                                               a-,i .. 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .tl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~
                                                                     ~                                                                                                                           ~                                   ~1
                                         !!!
               farm(PF))                .Ei            <                            Q                   u                                            i                                      ~                  ; ~ a- e
                                        <                            &l                                                                              t!          ...
                                                                                                                                                                 5.e
                                                                                                                                                                                      f          u             u.s ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .E ..
     I   I•           2       I•         3     I•       4      I•     5      I•         6      I•        1    I•        s I•            9     I•      10    I•        ll    I•         12   I•       13   I•           14       I•       15   I•   11    I•
~ThE> t-ou tes of O HIL of ~~0 k Y         O SG o f 1\UiPP-Sh E>lE>k m td O HIL of ~~0 kV OS G of l'vfiiPP-Rob ot up to tow e1·
r~~lalL-t tion   spo t No .   ~99   go int>m-allE>l a t 40 - :0.0 m a:ti.""\l <li~lallCE' of O HILs m ul af fE>c t tltE' lm td \L~E'l"S s ta ted b E> low :
                                                                  113111
                                                                                                    1\o~.s-

                                                                                            -
                                     Raimbek
                                                                                                                   1;~ F:i· u1T~                                                                  hoy

                                                                                                                                                    ·~
     I        MSybankulov             region
                                                                   da.ted         31.03 . f                                                                       1        ,2 18     pasture                            8 107,00          16,00
                                                               0 1.08.20 11                         ..: 59.,25

     2        T. Tabak
                                     Raimbek
                                      region
                                                                  189111
                                                                   da.ted         31.03 .2011
                                                                                                     03-0 50-
                                                                                                     109-056
                                                                                                                   -;,.=.-
                                                                                                                       . . . . . . u ..

                                                                                                                      fann
                                                                                                                                  t emporalY use
                                                                                                                                                   jl_..
                                                                                                                                                      150,00
                                                                                                                                                                       ~

                                                                                                                                                                       0, 138        pasture      hoy                   5 125,00          16,00
                                                               08 .08.20 11
                                                                  107111
                                     Raimbek                                                         03-050-         peasant
                                                                                                                                                                                                  hoy
     3        A- Sybanbayev           region
                                                                   da.ted         29.03 .2011                                     t emporalY use     650,00            5,495         pasture                          204 084,00          16,00
                                                                                                     109-033          fann
                                                               30 .07.20 11
                                                                  163111
                                     Raimbek                                                         03-050-         peasant
                                                                                                                                                                                                  hoy
     4        S.Khalykov              region
                                                                   da.ted         08 .08 .2011       11 7-207                     t emporalY use      100,00           4,554         pasture                          169 115,00          16,00
                                                                                                                      fann
                                                               10 .08.20 11
                                                                  119111
                                     Raimbek                                                         03-050-       oonunerc.ial
                                                                                                                                                                                                  hoy
     5        Uzynbulak P C           region
                                                                   da.ted         29 .03 .2011       11 7-027        fanni>lg
                                                                                                                                  t emporalY use     690,40            0, 125        pasture                            4 63 1,00         16,00
                                                               0 1.08.20 11
                                                    120112-08     110111
              B.                     Raimbek                                                         03-050-         peasant
                                                                                                                                                                                                  hoy
     6                                region
                                                       dated       da.ted         04.04 .2011        11 3-247                     t emporalY use     200,00            3,6 16        pasture                          134 272,00          16,00
              Zltanbyrshiyev                        16.04.2012 0 1.08.20 11
                                                                                                                      fann
                                                                  118111
                                     Raimbek                                                         03-050-         peasant
                                                                                                                                                                                                  hoy
     7        L Bogai<huk             region
                                                                   da.ted         29 .03 .2011                                    t emporalY use     250,00            2,070         pasture                           76 861,00          16,00
                                                                                                     109-039          fann
                                                               0 1.08.20 11
                                                                  117111
                                     Raimbek                                                         03-050-         peasant
                                                                                                                                                                                                  hoy
     8        K Rysbetov              region
                                                                   da.ted         29 .03 .2011       109-024                      t emporalY use        55,00          1,644         pasture                           6 1 040,00         16,00
                                                                                                                      fann
                                                               0 1.08.20 11
                                                                  103111
                                     Raimbek                                                         03-050-         peasant
                                                                                                                                                                                                  hoy
     9        M Baisha,aarov          region
                                                                   da.ted         31.03 .2011                                     t emporalY use     300,00            5, 178        pasture                          192 293,00          16,00
                                                                                                     080-022          fann
                                                               30 .07.20 11
                                                                  106111
              Zh-                    Raimbek                                                         03-050-         peasant
                                                                                                                                                                                                  hoy
    10                                region
                                                                    da.ted        31.03 .2011        108-707                      t emporalY use     200,00            3,454         pasture                          128 260,00          16,00
              Sapugaliyev                                      30 .07.20 11
                                                                                                                      fann
                                                    11 9112-08   112111
              B.                     Raimbek                                                         03-050-         peasant
    11                                                date d        da.ted        04.04 .2011                                     t emporalY use     400,00            2, 180        pasture      hoy                  80 957,00          16,00
              Zltanbyrshiyev          reg>on                                                         109-049          fann
                                                    16.04.2012 30 .07.20 11
     Ye.              Raimbek
                                          .........                  03-050-    peMant
12                                         dated      31.03.2011                            temporazy we           468,85    5,643     pM!un!          h>.y         209 570,00      16,00
     Kydyrllelrov      region                                        109-044      fann
                                        30.07.2011
                                           III/II
     Sh.              Raimbek                                        03-050-    peasant
                                                                                                                                       p..rur.
13                                         d.ted      29.03.2011                            tempor~use             100,00    0,116                     h>.y           4 323,00       16,00
     Bikochhayev       region                                        109-054     fann
                                        01.08.2011
                                          11 5/11
     K.               Uimbek
                      1                                              03·050·    peasant
14                                         doted      04.04.20 11                           temporil'Ywe           300,00    2,880     p..rur.         hay          106 957,00       16,00
     Moldassanov       re;wn                                         117-05S     fann
                                        Ol.OS.2011
                                          188/11
                      Raimbek                                        03-050·    peas&nt
15   T. AclaJnbayev                        dated      31.03.2011                            temporazy use          224,00    1,247     p.. rur.        hay           46 307,00      16,00
                       region                                        109-042      fann
                                        31.07.2011
                                           116/11
     Ye.              Raimbek                                        03-050-    peasant
                                                                                            temporary use                              p..rur.
16                                         doted      04.04.2011                                                   290,00    4,S69                     h>.y         180 817,00      16,00
     Belgozhayev       region                                        117-140     fann
                                        01.08.2011
                                          114/11
                      Raimbek

                                                              -..O
                                                                     03-050·    peasil'\t
17   B. Kainubayev                         doted      04.04.2011                            temporaJYU$e           175,10    9,647     p..rur.         hay          358 266,00       16,00
                       re;wn                                         OS0-001      fann
                                        30.07.2011

18   B.Adilbai
                      Raimbek
                       region
                                          105/11
                                           dated
                                        30.07.2011
                                                      31.03.2 11 T· )~a }
                                                                        ·i·v1flla ~29
                                                                    p 8o 8S
                                                                                                               .
                                                                                                                                       p.. rur.        hay          119 933,00      16,00


19
     R.
     Moldabelrova
                      Raimbek
                       region
                                           104/11
                                           doted
                                        30.07.2011
                                                             ""'
                                                      31.03.2011
                                                                     03-050-
                                                                     080-048
                                                                                peasant
                                                                                 fann
                                                                                            temporary we           350,00    5,3S8     p..rur.         h>.y         200 103,00       16,00

                                           190/11
                      Raimbek                                        03·050·    peasil\t
20   YelTanuu.P                            doted      04.05.2011                            temporary use           61,00    1,553     p..rur.         hay           64 822,00       16,00
                       re~n                                          113-20S      fann
                                        01.08.2011
                                                                                            temporary long
                              N! 18</11. N! 05/11
     Shelek PC (A. Yenbekshik                                        03-044· commercial
                                                                                         tenncommon
                                                                                                                                      inigated
21                  a:ukhsky OS doted     doted 26.07.2011                                •hared \ISe of           123,00   35,S49                     •oy        3 667 783,00      43,00
     Dautlrulov)                                                     275- IS5  fannin;                                               plou;h larul
                     Re~n 26.0S.2011 03.0S.2011                                          land for a fee,
                                                                                            49 ye.,..
                                                                                        temponry long
     Shelek PC (A. Yenbek•hik N• 185111· N• 06/11
                                                                     03-044· commercial
                                                                                         temtcommon
                                                                                                                                      inigated
22                  a:ukhsky 08 doted     doted 02.08.2011                                •hared \ISe of           230,50   100,00                     •oy        10 231 200,00     43,00
     Dautlrulov)                                                     275- IS3 fannin;                                                plou;h larul
                     Re~n 26.08.2011 03.08.2011                                             la.nd for a fee,
                                                                                               49 yean
     M. KaJnashev Yenbekshik N! 205111· N  ! 38/11
                                                                     03-044·    peasa.nt    petltWlint use                             inigated     V\lgttibl..
23                 a:ukhsky OS doted       doted 02.09.20 11                                                        35,00    1,384                                6 756 695,00    2 119,00
     (Avangard PC)                                                   263-123     fann           oflarul                              plou;h larul   (pepper)
                    Re~n     10.10.2011 06.09.2011
                                                                                            temporary long
     YelaJnan PF
                              N! 243/11. N!l81/11
     (Tortkol-MAIS Yenbekshik                              03-044· commercial
                                                                              tenn conunon
                                                                                                                                      inigated      lucerne,
24                  a:ukhsky 08 doted     dated 23.07.2011                     •hared \ISe of                      160,00    68,40                                6 678 254,00      42,00
     u.P, M.         Re;ion 29.12.2013 OS.OS.2011
                                                           291·56S   fannin;
                                                                              land for a fee,
                                                                                                                                     plou;h larul     IThliz;e
     Zhurossov)                                                                  49 ye.,..
                       t enooexu u.k N.!.o::'U4H l -     H:S.o::'lli
                                                                                     03-044-          pe asant                                      plough Jam.
25   B. Jslarnova       azakhsky    08 ohted      ohted   09.04.2011                                                 lease          5,00    0,367                    hay        23 002,00    27,00
                                                                                     263-486           fann                                           pastun.
                         Region    10.10.2011 17.08.2011
                       Yenboekshik 64112-08
     G.                                       28111 ohted                            03-044-          peasant    permanen t we                        iniga.ted
26                      azakhsky      da.ted              10.04.2011                                                                3,00    0,534 plough laM         hay        33 468,00    27,00
     Zhanpeissova        Region
                                              13.03.2012                             263-278           fann         of laM
                                   13.03.2012
                       Ye~ks hik 65112-08
                                              83111 ohted                            03-044-          pe asant   permanen t we                        iniga.ted
27   K. Zaidinov        azakhsky      da.ted                                                                                                                        clover
                         Region
                                              16 .08.2011 25.07.2011                 291-139           fann         of laM          6,20    0,510 plough laM                    31964,00     27,00
                                   13.03.2012
                       Yenboekshik
                                                       04111 ohted                   03-044-          peasant    te.mporGey' we                       iniga.ted
28   T. Aldazharov      azakhsky                                                                                                                                     soy                     44,00
                         Region
                                                       08.08.2011 28.07.2011         275-180           fann          of laM         5,73    1,768 plough laM                    180 888,00

                       Ye~ks hik                          173111
                                                                                                       peasant   permanen t we                        iniga.ted
29   T. Jsmailov        azakhsky                           ohted        17.04.2011        27                                        2,00    0,338 plough laM         hay        2 1 184,00   27,00
                         Region
                                                                                                       fann         of laM
                                                       08.08.2011
                       Yenboekshik                        179111
                                                                                     03-044-           peasant   permanen t we                        iniga.ted     ,..,.;.,.
30   P. Mustafayev      azakhsky                           ohted        29.08.2011                                                  2,00    0,028 plough laM                      5 966,00   92,00
                         Region
                                                                                     263-268           fann         of laM
                                                       3 1.08.2011
                       Ye~ks hik                          180111                     03-044-           peasant   te.mporGey' we                       iniga.ted
31   S. T autibayeva    azakhsky                           ohted        09.05.2011                                                  3,00    0,573 plough laM         hay        35 913,00    27,00
                         Region
                                                                                     263-284           fann          of laM
                                                       16 .08.2011




                                                                               -
                       Yenboekshik                        186111                     03-044-          peasant    te.mporGey' we                       iniga.ted
32

33
     B. Tolrebayeva


     T. Sadykova
                        azakhsky
                         Keg>on
                       Yenboekshik
                        azakhsky
                         Region
                                                           ohted
                                                       l=> .U~ .~U ll
                                                         153111
                                                          ohted
                                                       04.08.2011
                                                                        15.04.2011


                                                                        27.06.~ ;~
                                                                                     ?.n-::t-4-::tl     r.~




                                                                                                      t):il W6Z1~
                                                                                                                    nf'b11~




                                                                                                                                  ua
                                                                                                                                    5,00

                                                                                                                                           -0,495 fl1.-r.1



                                                                                                                                           ~28
                                                                                                                                                          el1 bn~

                                                                                                                                                      iniga.ted
                                                                                                                                                    plough laM
                                                                                                                                                                     hay


                                                                                                                                                                     hay
                                                                                                                                                                                31 024,00


                                                                                                                                                                                  8 022,00
                                                                                                                                                                                             27,00


                                                                                                                                                                                             27,00

                       Ye~ks hik
                                                       25111 ohted                   03-044-           peasant   te.mporGey' we                       iniga.ted
34   A. Mutalipov       azakhsky
                                                       15.07.2011
                                                                   12.04.2011
                                                                                     263-551           fann          of laM         8,00    0,353 plough laM         hay        22 124,00    27,00
                         Region
                       Yenboekshik
                                                       32111 ohted                   03-044-                     te.mporGey' we
35   G. lbragimov       azakhsky
                         Region
                                                       15.07.2011 00.00.2011         263-473                         of laM        13,00    1,106                               190 538,00   75,00

                       Ye~ks hik
                                                       29111 ohted                   03-044-          pe asant   permanen t we                        iniga.ted
36   LMunarov           azakhsky                                   17.04.2011                                                       5,00    0,261 plough laM         hay         16 358,00   27,00
                         Region
                                                       15.07.2011                    263-302           fann         of laM
                       Yenboekshik                                                                     Ismail
                                                       24111 ohted                   03-044-                     permanen t we                        iniga.ted
37   K. Jslarnov        azakhsky                                   10.04.2011                         pe asant                      1,00    0,100 plough laM         hay          6 267,00   27,00
                                                       15.07.2011                    263-046                        of laM
                         Region                                                                        fann
                       Ye~ks hik                         176111
                                                                                     03-044-           peasant   permanen t we                        iniga.ted
38   A. Taipova         azakhsky                          ohted         17.04.2011                                                  2,00    0,156 plough laM         hay          9 777,00   27,00
                                                                                     263-045           fann         of laM
                         Region                        15.08.2011
                       Yenboekshik                       175111
     Zh.Tustuld>aye                                                                  03-044-          peasant    permanen t we                        iniga.ted
39                      azakhsky                          ohted         11.04.2011                                                  5,00    0,698 plough laM         hay        43 747,00    27,00
     v                                                                               263-042           fann         of laM
                         Region                        15.08.2011
                       Ye~ks hik                         174111
                                                                                     03-044-          peasant    permanen t we                        iniga.ted
40   B.Mamytova         azakhsky                          ohted         09.04.2011                                                  2,20    0,517 plough laM         hay        32 403,00    27,00
                                                                                     262-046           fann         of laM
                         Region                        15.08.2011
                       Yenboekshik                       1871ll                      03-044-
     T.                                                                                                peasant   te.mporGey' we                       iniga.ted     ,..,.;.,.
41                      azakhsky                          ohted         20.06.2011   263-469           fann          of laM         6,00    0,353 plough laM                    75 2 14,00   93,00
     Mussalimova         Region                        17.08.2011
                       Ye~ks hik
                                                       35111 ohted                   03-044-          peasant    te.mporGey' we                       iniga.ted     ,..,.;.,.
42   Ye. Sembayev       azakhsky                                                                                                                                                75 001,00
                         Region
                                                       05.09.2011 0 1.09.2011        263-573           fann          of laM         6,00    0,352 plough laM                                 92,00

                       Yenboekshik                       156111                      03-044-          peasant    permanen t we                        iniga.ted
43   K. Nwbekova        azakhsky                          ohted   10.05.2011         2 14-001          £'4ll U      vf'klul        27.70    0.196   plu~, Wtvl
                                                                                                                                                                     hay         12 284.00   27.00
                         Region                        04.08.2011
                        ···e.""· ··             ..... ·-· ..
                      Yenbeks hik                 162/11
                                                                           03-044-    peasant   pe.nnartent use                              irrigated    lucerne for
44   A- Tudakhunov azakhsky                        da.ted      10.042011
                                                                           263- 156    fann         of land
                                                                                                                       3,00        0,431
                                                                                                                                            ploogh !aDd       luy          27 013,00    27,00
                        Region                  02.08.20 11
                      Yenbeks hik                 152/11
                                                                           03-044-    peasant   te.mporal'Y use                              irrigated     puennial
45   A- T UISunov      azakhsky                    da.ted      15.062011
                                                                           263-466     fann         of land
                                                                                                                       4,00        0,008
                                                                                                                                            ploogh !aDd     grasses
                                                                                                                                                                             501,00     27,00
                        Region                  04.08.20 11
                      Yenbeks hik                 185/11
                                                                           03-044-    peasant   te.mporal'Y use                              irrigated
46   T. I~mov          azakhsky                    da.ted      00.002011                                               7,00        0,061                      luy           3 823,00    27,00
                                                                           263-468     fann         of land                                 ploogh !aDd
                        Region                  17.08.20 11
                      Yenbeks hik                 192/11
                                                                           03-044-    peasant   te.mporal'Y use                              irrigated
47   G. Massu1ova      azakhsky                    da.ted      09.052011                                               2,00        0,082                      luy           5 139,00    27,00
                                                                           263-465     fann         of land                                 ploogh !aDd
                        Region                  16.08.20 11
                      Yenbeks hik                 183/11
                                                                                      peasant   pe.nnartent use                              irrigated
48   T. Ospanov        azakhsky                    da.ted      17.042011     26                                        2,00        0,661                      luy          41 428,00    27,00
                                                                                       fann         of land                                 ploogh !aDd
                        Region                  09.08.20 11
                      Yenbeks hik                 191/11


                                                                     -
                                                                           03-044-    peasant   pe.nnartent use                              irrigated
49   A- Aissarov       azakhsky                    da.ted      09.052011                                               2,00        0,346                      luy          21 685,00    27,00
                                                                           263-01 1    fann         of land                                 ploogh !aDd
                        Region                  15.08.20 11


                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                   ~




50   S. Tanabayev
                      Yenbeks hik
                       azakhsky
                        Region
                      Yenbeks hik
                                                  117/11
                                                   da.ted
                                                15.08.20 11
                                                  206/11
                                                            17.05~ ~~; ~;!            1"\ra MW1                   ~
                                                                                                                               4
                                                                                                                                             irrigated
                                                                                                                                       1 ploogh !aDd
                                                                                                                                                              luy          24 506,00    27,00


                                                   G.ted
                                                                           03-044-    peasant   pe.nnartent use                              irrigated       ..wz.,
51   R. Kebirova       azakhsky                                10.082011
                                                                           263- 13S    fann         of land
                                                                                                                       3,00        0,208
                                                                                                                                            ploogh !aDd    , _tabJ.s       26 072,00    27,00
                        Region                  16.08.20 11
                      Yenbeks hik 132/11-08
                                                                           03-044-    peasant   pe.nnartent use                              irrigated      lucerne,
52   S. Uskenbayev     azakhsky     dated                      20.062011                                               5,00        0,954                                   82 953,00    3S,OO
                                                                           263-068     fann         of land                                 ploogh !aDd      nWze
                        Region    19 .04.2012
                      Yenbeks hik 133/12-08
                                                33111 dated                03-044-    peasant                                                irrigated    so y, potato,
53   Kh. Kebirova      azakhsky       dated                 23.062011                                lease            3 1,00       1,166                                  143 345,00    53,00
                                                15.07.20 11                263-537     fann                                                 ploogh !aDd      nWze
                        Region    19 .04.2012
                      Yenbeks hik 03-08-33-
54   u.                azakhsky       11-6
                                                3 1111 dated
                                                             24.062011
                                                                           03-044-                 lease by
                                                                                                                       7,00        0,394                                   24 694,00    27,00
     Asnakhunova                                16.08.20 11                263-467               inherit4ltCe
                        Region 29 .11.2011
                      Yenbeks hik               20611 1-08
                                                                           03-044-
55   R. Mukhtarov      azakhsky                    da.ted      25.062011                             lease             4,00        0,218                                   13 663,00    27,00
                                                                           263-463
                        Region                10.10.20 11
                      Yenbeks hik 135/12-08     161/11
                                                                           03-044-    peasant                                                irrigated    lucerne for
56   T. Ahdullayev     azakhsky       dated      da.ted   12.042011                                  lease             2,40        0,317                                   19 868,00    27,00
                                                                           263-094     fann                                                 ploogh !aDd       luy
                        Region    19 .04.2012 05.08.20 11
                      Yenbeks hik 03-08-33-     224/11
                                                                           03-044-    peasant   pe.nnartent use                              irrigated    st:rawbe ny,
51   Yu. Ayupov        azakhsky 11-12 dated      da.ted   20.062011
                                                                           263-572     fann         of land
                                                                                                                       7,00        0,401
                                                                                                                                            ploogh !aDd     b:eme
                                                                                                                                                                          673 282,00   730,00
                        Region    12 .12.2011 15.08.20 11
                      Yenbeks hik               167/11
                                                                           03-044-    peasant
58   Ye . .Alibayev    azakhsky                  da.ted   25.072011                                  lease            38,00        1,888     pastu..          luy         174 547,00    40,00
                                                                           291-034     fann
                        Region                06.08.20 11
                      Yenbeks hik
                                                19111 dated                03-044-    peasant      lease by                                  irrigated
                                                                                                                                                             ..wz.,
59   A- Baituriyev     azakhsky                             25.072011                                                  9,00        0,300                     c rops,       63 922,00    92,00
                                                11.08.20 11                295-080     fann      inherit4ltCe                               ploogh !aDd
                        Region                                                                                                                              lucerne
                      Yenbeks hik
                                                20111 dated                03-044-    peasant                                                irrigated
60   K. Baigozhayev azakhsky                                23.072011
                                                                                       r.,..         lease             3,00        0, 102                    nWze          21 733,00    92,00
                                                11.08.20 11                295-092                                                          ploogh !aDd
                        Rezion
                      ~   enbeksluk
                                      21/ 11 dated                 03-044-   peasant     tempor.al'Y use                               inlg.ated
61   Z"- Kuramayev azokllsky          I 1.08 .2011
                                                   30.07 .20 11
                                                                   295-269    fann          of land
                                                                                                                 4,30     0, 144
                                                                                                                                    p lough land
                                                                                                                                                    lu<:eme       9 025,00   27,00
                        Region
                      YenbekslUX
                                      22/1 1 dated                 03-044-   peasant                                                   inlg.ated   peremtia.l
62   MNiyazova            azokllsky                15 .04.20 11                                 lease            6,00     0,2 17                                 13 600,00   27,00
                                      15 .07.2011                  295-388    fann                                                  p lough land    grass~s
                        Region
                      YenbekslUX
     A-                               27/1 1 dated                 03-044-   peasant     pennanent use                               inlg.ated     luce.me.,
63                        azokllsky                14 .04.20 11                                                  6,10     0,251 p lough land                     15 731,00   27,00
     Arnankozhayev                    15 .07.2011                  295-044    fann          of land                                                 ,..,.;,.
                        Region
                      YenbekslUX
64
     s.                   azokllsky
                                      36/1 1 dated                 03-044-   peasant     pennanent use                               inlg.ated     luce.me.,
                                                                                                                                                                             27,00
     Nurrnukharuw                     10 .08 .2011 28.07.20 11     295-094    fann          of land
                                                                                                                50,00     1,3 13 p lough land       ,..,.;,.     82 292,00
                           Region
                                                                                         t emporary long
                      YenbekslUX
     Ye.                              37/1 1 dated                 03-044-   p~as.artt    tenn conunon                                 inlg.ated   p~remtia.l
65                        azokllsky
                                      I 1.08 .2011
                                                   23.07.20 11
                                                                   295-240    fann
                                                                                                                 3,50     0, 130
                                                                                                                                    p lough land
                                                                                                                                                                  8 148,00   27,00
     Sarsenbiyev          Region
                                                                                            shared use o f                                          grass~s

                                                                                           land for a fee


                                                                                                                        ,....
                  YenbekslUX
     D.                               39/1 1 dated                 03-044-   peasant                                                   inlg.ated
66                 azokllsky                                                                    lease            3,00     0, 10 1                   lu<:eme       6 330,00   27,00
     Arnankozhayev Region             08 .08 .2011 25.07.2,       ~295-333    fann                                                  p lough land


                                                                           a. ~·~
                                                                  ~ lf I~ J:           ~a                               ~53
                      YenbekslUX
                                      40/1 1 dated
61   N. lzteleuov         azokllsky                22.04.1-..lL                                                                       pasture        hay        253 350,00   18,00
                        Region
                                      21.07.2011                              1:\n.om.   J
                      YenbekslUX
                                      4 1/11 dated                           peasant     pennanent use
68   D. Teleubayev        azokllsky                23.04.20 11       55                                       255,00      6,384       pasture        hay        264134,00    18,00
                        Region
                                      21.07.2011                              fann          of land
                      YenbekslUX
                                      42/1 1 dated                           peasant     pennanent use
69   A- Assylbekov        azokllsky                22.04.20 11       58                                       490,00      7,668       pasture        hay        323 887,00   18,00
                                      21.07.2011                              fann          of land
                        Region
                      YenbekslUX
                                      43/1 1 dated                           p~as.artt   pennanent use
10   B. N urzhauov        azokllsky
                                      21.07.2011
                                                   25.04.20 11       62
                                                                              fann          of land
                                                                                                              315,00      2,744       pasture        hay        115 617,00   18,00
                        Region
                      YenbekslUX
                                      44/1 1 dated                           peasant     pennanent use
71   A- Ukibayev          azokllsky                25.04.20 11       65                                       130,00      4,463       pasture        hay        185 477,00   18,00
                                      21.07.2011                              fann          of land
                        Region
                      YenbekslUX
                                      4511 1 dated                           peasant     pennanent use
72   K. AJdunetova        azokllsky                26.04.20 11       67                                        85,00      3,481       pasture        hay        145 6S4,00   18,00
                        Region
                                      21.07.2011                              fann          of land
                      YenbekslUX
                                      46/11 dated                            peasant     pennanent use
73   B. Urkimhayev        azokllsky               26.04.20 11        69                                        34,40      1,205       pasture        hay         49 393,00   18,00
                                      21.07.2011                              fann          of land
                        Region
                      YenbekslUX                                                              lifet ime
                                      47/ 11 dated                           p~as.artt
74   T . Bagysbekov       azokllsky                27 .04.20 11      71                      inheritable       70,06      2,554       pasture        hay        107 117,00   18,00
                                      21.07.2011                              fann
                        Region                                                               ownership
                      YenbekslUX
                                      48/1 1 dated                           p~as.artt   pennanent use
15   A- Kas~-..nov        azokllsky
                                      21.07.2011
                                                   28.04.20 11       73
                                                                              fann          of land
                                                                                                              204,00      2,926       pasture        hay        123 736,00   18,00
                        Region
                      YenbekslUX                                                              lifet ime
                                      49/ 11 dated                           p~as.artt
16   N. lzteleuov         azokllsky
                                      21.07.2011
                                                   22.04.20 11       72
                                                                              fann
                                                                                             inheritable     4 863,40     9,2 14      pasture        hay        3S6 6S6,00   18,00
                        Region                                                               ownership
                      YenbekslUX                                                              lifet ime
                                      50/1 1 dated                           p~as.artt
11   A- Issabayev         azokllsky                05.05.20 11       75                      inheritable     5 147,10    10,379       pasture        hay        434472,00    18,00
                                      21.07.2011                              fann
                        Region                                                               ownership
                      YenbekslUX                                                              lifet ime
                                      5 1/11 dated                 03-044-   p~as.artt
78   B.Nurzhau            azokllsky                2 1.04.20 11                              inheritable     I 138,00    10,321       pasture        hay        434134,00    18,00
                                      21.07.2011                   198-009    fann
                          Region                                                             ownership
     -·
     N.             Yenbekshik
                                            52111 doted                 03-044-    peas.nt    temporal'Y w e
79   Yes simgodzhay azakhsky                            04.052 0 11                                                 72,00        0,873     past=>          hay          36 368,00    18,00
                            Region
                                            2 1.072011                  296.035     fann          oflond
     ev
                       Yenbekshik                                       03-044-                                                            inlgated
                                            56111 doted                            pe asant                                                              lucerne,
80   B. Kasha,<>anov    azakhsky                                                                   lease                          1,154                                167 134,00
                                            19.082011 03.082 0 11       295- 100    fann
                                                                                                                    25,00                 plough J.nd     canol
                                                                                                                                                                                    10 1,00
                            Re~n
                       Yenbekshik                                       03-044-
                        azakhsky
                                            53111 doted                            peas.nt    perm.anen t w e
                                                                                                                                           past=>          hay
81   A. Nwbekov                                         22.042 0 11                                              1 6 10,00       8,529                                 355 181,00    18,00
                            Region
                                            21.072011                   295-273     fann          oflond
                       Yenbekshilc:
                        azakhsky
                                            54111 doted                            pe asant   perm.anent use
                                                                                                                                           past=>          hay
82   A. Sagatov                                                           77                                                     12,247                                493 464,00
                            Region
                                            21.072011 29.042 0 11                   fann          oflond
                                                                                                                 2 500,00                                                            18,00




                                                                 -                                                  -
                       Yenbekshilc:
     T.                 azakhsky
                                            55111 doted                            pe asant   perm.anen t w e
                                                                                                                                           past=>          hay
83                                                      30.042 0 11       78                                     1 062,00         5,385                                113 537,00    18,00
     Kulshimanov            Region
                                            21.072011                               fann          oflond


84


85
     T. Aliassarov


     K. Sarseb ayev
                       Yenbekshilc:
                        azakhsky
                            Region
                       Yenbekshilc:
                        azakhsky
                                            58111 doted
                                            21.072011

                                            59111 doted
                                                          21.04~ /296~2! )~fi f;,~
                                                                        ~0~


                                                                        03-044-
                                                                                 f~d.f·i
                                                                                   pe.vant    temporuywe
                                                                                                                 ua          e      90


                                                                                                                                 0,377
                                                                                                                                           past=>


                                                                                                                                           past=>
                                                                                                                                                           hay


                                                                                                                                                           hay
                                                                                                                                                                       158 614,00    18,00



                            Region
                                            21.072011 23.042 0 11       296.049     fann          oflond
                                                                                                                   108,00                                               15 943,00    18,00

                       Yenbekshilc:           129111                    03-044-                                                            inlgated
     S h.               azakhsky
                                                                                   pe asant   temporal'Y we                                             lucerne fo r
86                                             dated      23.072 0 11                                                3,00        0,719 plough J.nd         hay          45 063,00    27,00
     Bajgcrzhayev                                                       295.089     fann          oflond
                            Region          10.082011
                       Yenbekshilc:           131111                    03-044-                                                            inigated
                                                                                   pe asant
87   S. Khassanov       azakhsky               dated      04.082 0 11                              lease             7,30        0,244                    lw:eme        15 293,00    27,00
                            Region
                                                                        295- 106    fann                                                  plough J.nd
                                            11.082011
                       Yenbekshilc:           130111                    03-044-    pe asant                                                inigated
                                                                                                                                                          m.m,
88   K. Yessimov        azakhsky               dated      14.042 0 11                              lease             3,00        0,120 plough J.nd      sunflower        7 521,00    27,00
                                                                        295- 104    fann
                            Region          02.082011                                                                                                      seeds
                       Yenbekshilc:           164111
     Ye .                                                               03-044-    pe asant   tempo ral'Y use                              inigated     perennial
89                      azakhsky               dated      04.052 0 11                                                2,60        0,083 plough J.nd                       5 202,00    27,00
     Mukhadiyev                                                         295-239     fann          oflond                                                  grasses
                            Re~n            03.082011
                       Yenbekshilc:           165111                    03-044-                                                            inigated
                                                                                   pe asant   tempo ral'Y use                                           perennial
90   A. S hllbekov      azakhsky               dated      04.052 0 11                                                3,90        0,131 plough J.nd                       8 210,00    27,00
                                                                        295-308     fann          oflond                                                  grasses
                            Region          03.082011
                       Yenbekshilc:           168/11                    03-044-                                                            inigated
                                                                                   peas.nt
91   K. Ve1yamova       azakhsky               dated      26.072 0 11                              lease            30,00         1,528 plough J.nd       wheot        164 068,00    44 ,00
                                                                        29 1-251    fann
                            Region          03.082011
                       Yenbekshilc:                                     03-044-                  lifetime
                        azakhsky
                                            26111 doted                            peas.nt
                                                                                                                                           past=>
                                                                                                                                                        perennial
92   A. Davletov                                                                               inheritable                                                              17 549,00
                            Region
                                            15.072011 12.042 0 11       27 1-292    fann
                                                                                                                     8,00        0,289                    grasses
                                                                                                                                                                                     27,00
                                                                                                ownership
                       Yenbekshik                                       03-044-                  lifetime
                        azakhsky
                                            18111 doted                 27 1-302   peas.nt
                                                                                                                                           past=>
93   K. Ashirov                                                                                inheritable                       0,167                    lw:eme
                            Region
                                            10.082011 05.082 0 11         (45)      fann
                                                                                                                     9,00                                               10 467,00    27,00
                                                                                                ownership
                       Yenbekshilc:
                                            15111 doted                 03-044-    peas.nt                                               img>.ted
94   I. Khakimov        azakhsky                                                                   lease                                                  lw:eme
                         Region
                                            10.082011 05.082 0 11       27 1-311    fann
                                                                                                                     5,00        0,106 plough J.nd                       6 644,00    27,00

                       Ye nbekshilc:
     S h.                                   16111 doted                 03-044-    peas.nt        private                                  inigated
95                         azakhsky                                                                                                                       lw:eme
     Omurzakov           Region
                                            07.072011 12.042 0 11       27 1-331    fann         property
                                                                                                                     5,00        0,166 plough J.nd                      10 404,00    27,00

                       Ye nbekshilc:
                                            17111 doted                 03-044-    peas.nt    tempo ral'Y we                               inigated
96   B. Sadirov            azakhsky
                                            11.082011 05.082 0 11       27 1-332    fann      o f land for fee
                                                                                                                     5,00        0,160 plough J.nd        m.m           34 091,00    93,00
                            Region
                       v     1   1   1 .,
                       Yenbel<s!Wc
                                             09/11 dated                 03-044-     peasant   penn.altE:n t use                           inlg.a.ted    ,...;.,,
91    A. Tununov         azakhsky                                                                                                0, 149
                          Region
                                             10.08 .2011 28.07.2011      275-012      fann         of laM
                                                                                                                         7,20             plough laM     Ju.:.me
                                                                                                                                                                      23 175,00      67,00


                       Yenbel<s!Wc
      A.                                     10/11 dated                 03-044-     pe...nt   penn.altE:n t use                           inlg.a.ted
                                                                                                                                                          ,...;.,
98                       azakhsky
      Khairullayev        Region
                                             11.08 .2011 28.07.2011      275-013      fann         of laM
                                                                                                                         5, 10   0, 108 plough laM                    23 012,00      92,00




                       Yenbel<s!Wc
                                             11/11 dated                 03-044-     peasant   penn.altE:n t use                           inlg.a.ted
                                                                                                                                                          ,...;.,
99    N. Kehirov         azakhsky                                                                                        4,30    0,084                                17 898,00      92,00
                                             11.08 .2011                ~75-014       fann         of laM                                 plough laM


                                                                                     Da H1111 Ja 7
                          Region                           2807 (


                       Yenbelcs!Wc
                                                                        ~T                                         •
                                             12/11 dated                 03-044-     peasant   penn.a!ten t use                            inlg.a.ted
100   A. Ashimov         azakhsky                                                                                                                        Ju.:.me
                          Region
                                             08.08 .2011 28.07.2011      275-0 15     fann         of laM
                                                                                                                         8,80    0, 153 plough laM                     9 589,00      27,00

                       Yenbelcs!Wc
      N.                 azakhsky            13/11 dated                 03-044-     peasant   penn.altE:n t use                           inlg.a.ted
101                                                                                                                              0,040                   Ju.:.me
      Chumabayev          Region
                                             10.08 .2011 28.07.2011      275-016      fann         of laM
                                                                                                                         1,.50            plough laM
                                                                                                                                                                       2 507,00      27,00

                       Yenbelcs!Wc
                                             07/11 dated                 03-044-     peasant   tem porary use                              inlg.a.ted
102   A. Ahlayeva        azakhsky                        26.07.2011                                                     26,88    0,099                     soy        10 129,00      44,00
                          Region
                                             08.08 .2011                 275- 188     fann         of laM                                 plough laM
                       Yenbelcs!Wc
                                             08111 dated                 03-044-     peasant   tem porary use                              inlg.a.ted
103   A. Ahlayeva        azakhsky                                                                                        9,24                              soy                       44,00
                          Region
                                             08.08 .2011 26.07.2011      275- 189     fann         of laM
                                                                                                                                 0, 168 plough laM                    17 188,00

                       Yenbelcs!Wc            155/11                     03-044-
      A.                 azakhsky                                                    peasant   t em pora:lY use                            inlg.a.ted
104                                            dated    28.07.2011                                                       1,63    0,048                   Ju.:.me       3 008,00      27,00
      Chumabayeva    Region                 04.08 .2011                  275-20 1     fann         of laM                                 plough laM
                   Yenbelcs!Wc 12 1n 2-08     171/11
                                                                         03-044-     pe...nt   tem porary use                              inlg.a.ted
105   M. Teme nova  azakhsky      dated        dated    13.05.201 1                                                     47,00    1,409                     hay        88 308,00      27,00
                     Region    16.04 .20 12 26.07 .2011                  29 1-353     fann         of laM                                 plough laM

                   Yenbelcs!Wc                172/11
                                                                         03-044-     peasant   t em pora:lY use                            inlg.a.ted   pe n-nnial
106   D. Kassimova  azakhsky                   dated    30.07.2011                                                       8,00    0,268 plough laM                     16 797,00      27,00
                                                                         29 1-382     fann         of laM                                                grasses
                     Region                 08.08 .2011
                   Yenbelcs!Wc
      A.                                    14/11 dated                  03-044-     peasant   penn.a!ten t use                                          lucerne,
107                 azakhsky                                                                                                     0, 102 plough laM                    14815,00
      Tokhtakhunov        Region
                                            10.08 .2011 28.07.2011       275-017      fann         of laM
                                                                                                                         5,90                             ,...;.,                    63,00

                       Yenbelcs!Wc             132/ 11                   03-044-                   lifetime
                                                                                     peasant                                               inlg.a.ted    canot,
108   Ya. Dzhalilov      azakhsky               dated    23.08.2011       271-                   illheritable            9,00    0, 133 plough laM                   323 12 1,00   1 055,00
                                                                                      fann                                                               radish
                          Region             25.08 .2011                 306(43)                 ownership
                       Yenbelcs!Wc             166/11                    03-044-                                                           inlg.a.ted    ,...;.,,
                                                                                     peasant
109   A. Rozakhunov      azakhsky               dated    25.07.2011                                 lease               16,00    0,493                               125 840,00     105,00
                          Region
                                                                         29 1-3 10    fann                                                plough laM    SUllflower
                                             03.08 .2011
      PI Shelek
      Public F ores tty
      Ageru:yof
      Natural           Yenbelcs!Wc             184/ 11                              forest
                                                                         03-044-               penn.altE:n t use
110   Reso\ll'('es and azakhsky                  dated    05.05.201 1                ~me                               6 14,00   1,902      pasture        hay        77 303,00      18,00
                                                                         2 14-002                  of laM
      Environmental       Region             2 1.07 .2011                              nt
      Control
      Department of

      .
      Almaty Oblast
             "     '
        Agriru1tural
        Prodw:tion
        Cooperative       Y enbe.kshik               169f1 1
                                                                                03-044-    conunercial pennanen-t use                                       inlgated      peremU.al
 111    Mal)bai,           uakhsky                    dated     05.05 .2011                                                       1 077,40       2,414                                     138 385,00      27,00
                                                                                291-060      fanni>lg     of laM                                           plough laM      grasses
        Selection           Region                 06.08 .20 11
        Centre Alma
        Seeds IJ.P


 112
                          Y enbel:shik
        SIM and K IJ.P uakhsky
                            Region
                                                     170f1 1
                                                      dated
                                                                        t
                                                                14.04 .20J.k
                                                                                'T.
                                                                                ~;t~;      ~~a H~lll ~a ~70                                                  pastuze
                                                                                                                                                                          p e retuUal
                                                                                                                                                                           grasses
                                                                                                                                                                                            23 190,00      27,00
                                                   06.08 .20 11

Teial for OHI1. ef 220 kV OSG ofMHPP- SJoelek aDd OHI1.of220 kV OSG ef
                                                                                                                             27133,69           433,!1!1          0,01           0,01   37 660 934,01
              MHPP-lla•••"" to - · inltollation spet Ne. 2!1!1

Tllt> routt> of OHIL of 120 k V OSG of 1\IHPP-Robot from tower in~ lallation spot No . 300                            afft>rt.~   tht> land ltst>l-s
                                                stalt'd btol.ow:
                         Y enbe.kshik 89112-08       211f1 1
                                                                                03-044-     peas.a:nt   pennanen-t use                                      inlgated
  1     T. Take,--        uakhsky          da.ted     dated       05.08 .2011                                                        2,00        0,270 plough laM            hay            33 844,00      27,00
                                                                                263-273       fann         of laM
                            Region 28.03.2012 16.08.20 11
                         Y enbel:shik 88- 1 2~8 H. 2 10111
                                                                                 03-044-     peasam     pennanen t use
  2     T. Tokeyev        uakhsky          da.ted     dated       06.08 .2011                                                        2,00        0,270       pastuze         hay               250,00      27,00
                                                                                263-0272      fann      of land
                            Region 28.03.2012 16.08.20 11
                         Y enbe.kshik 8611 2-08      229f1 1
                                                                                03-044-     peas.a:nt   pennanen-t use
  3     AskhatPF          uakhsky          da.ted     dated       04.07 .2011                                                       20,00        0,335       pastuze      vegetables       171 020,00     111,00
                                                                                263-1 33      fann         of laM
                            Region 28.03.2012 18.08.20 11
                                                     320f1 1
                                                                                03-046-     peas.a:nt       p riv-ate                                       inlg.a.ted
  4       S. Manwdov      Ili region                  dated       02.08 .2011                                                     13,76       0,328                         mai:ze      161 9 10,00     105,00
                                                                                220-044       fann         property                                        plough laM
                                                   02.09 .20 11
                                      03-08-33-      325f1 1
                                                                                03-046-     peas.a:nt       p riv-.a.te                                     inlg.a.ted
  5      Zh. Jlluratova   Ili region   ,ll-3 d.ted    dated       02.08 .2011                                                     69,11       0,330                         mai:ze      537940,00       346,00
                                                                                220-074       fann         property                                        plough laM
                                      02.12.2011 02.09 .20 11
                                      03-08-33-      323f1 1                                                                                                   non-
                                                                                03-046-     peas.a:nt       p riv-ate
  6       K. Y us s"Upov  Ili region   ,ll-2 d.ted    dated       02.08 .2011                                                     6,79        0,3 17         inlg.a.ted      hay        33954,00        23,00
                                                                                220-069       fann         property
                                      02.12.2011 02.09 .20 11                                                                                              plough laM
                                      03-08-33-      370f1 1
                                                                                03-046-     peas.a:nt       p riv-.a.te
  7      K. Aitzhanova Ili region      ,ll-1 d.ted    dated       03.08 .2011                                                     40,00       0,339          pastuze         hay        36 3 12,00      23,00
                                                                                226-027       fann         property
                                      18.11.2011 08.09 .20 11
                         Y enbel:shik        - -     205f1 1
                                            ,ll-9                               03-044-      peasam                                                         inlg.a.ted
 8      B. Shakhanov      uakhsky                     dated       12.08 .2011                                 lease                  3,00        0,120 plough laM            hay            15 042,00      27,00
                                      09.12.2011                                263-454       fann
                            Region                 16.08.20 11
                         Y enbe.kshik
                                                   82111 d.ted                  03-044-      peasam     temporary use
  9     ShelekPC          uakhsky                                 14.04 .2011                                                        3,63        0,240       pastuze         hay             2 095,00      18,00
                                                   26.07 .20 11                 275-205       fann         of laM
                            Region
                         Y enbel:shik                240f1 1
                                                                                             peasam     temporary use
 10     M. Kadubayev uakhsky                          dated       14.04 .2011      4                                                24,36        0,315                                      25 880,00      18,00
                                                                                              fann         of laM
                            Region                 19.08.20 11
                         Y enbe.kshik                24 1f1 1
        M.                                                                      03-044-     peas.a:nt       p riv-.a.te
 11                       uakhsky                     dated       04.05 .2011                                                       22,70        0,327       pastuze         hay            27 656,00      18,00
        Ask:ubekova                                                             085-011       fann         property
                            Region                 19.08.20 11
                         Y enbel:shik                242f1 1
                                                                                03-044-     peas.a:nt   pennanent use
 12     A. Sarybayev      uakhsky                     dated       26.07 .2011                                                       27,00        0,230       pastuze         hay            19 198,00      18,00
                                                                                085-018       fann         of laM
                            R.rion                 19.08.20 11
                                                           -
                      Yenbel<s!Wc      243/11


                                                                                                                     -
                                                                  03-044-    po...nt   penn.altE:n t use
13   K- lmanbayev      azakhsky         dated      26.07.2011                                               20,40     0, 195   pasture    hay    15 986,00   18,00
                                                                  085-02 1    fann         o f laM
                        Region      20 .08 .2011


                                                                             tlrii h71¢t1Ja
                                       244/11
                                                   03.05.~ 1Jo85i12
                      Yenbelcs!Wc                                 ..o"-00-
14   M.lsmailov        azakhsky         dated                                                                                  pasture    hay    11502,00    18,00
                                                                                                                     b »36
                        Region      20 .08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      245/11
                                                                  03-044-    po...nt       private
15   Kh- Paizrak       azakhsky         dated      26.07.20 11                                              20,70     0,015    pasture    hay     1268,00    18,00
                                                                  085-043     fann        property
                        Region      20 .08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      246 /11
     B.                                                           03-044-    po...nt   penn.altE:n t use
16                     azakhsky         dated      12.05.2011                                               70,.50    0,05 1   pasture    hay     4 314,00   18,00
     Nu.gozhayev                                                  085-064     fann         o f laM
                        Region      20 .08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      248 /11
                                                                  03-044-    po...nt       private
17   N. Kuzomanov      azakhsky         dated      29.07.20 11                                             103,.50    0,056    pasture    hay     4 736,00   18,00
                                                                  085-096     fann        property
                        Region      22 .08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      249/11
                                                                  03-044-    po...nt       private
18   A. Kudaikulova    azakhsky         dated      29.07.2011                                               64,40     1,.545   pasture    hay   90 498,00    18,00
                                                                  085- 188    fann        property
                        Region      22 .08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      250/11
                                                                  03-044-    po...nt   temporary use
19   M. Bihulatov      azakhsky         dated      2ll.07.2011                                              78,10     1, 189   pasture    hay   100 562,00   18,00
                                                                  085- 199    fann        o f laM
                        Region      22 .08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      251/11
                                                                  03-044-    po...nt       private
20   R. Kus:e nov      azakhsky         dated      2ll.07.20 11                                            100,00     0,808    pasture    hay   68 338,00    18,00
                                                                  085-203     fann        property
                        Region      22 .08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      252/11
                                                                  03-044-    po...nt       private
21   K. Belas$arova    azakhsky         dated      07.05.2011                                              120,00     1,352    pasture    hay   113 840,00   18,00
                                                                  085-204     fann        property
                        Region      22 .08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      139/11
                                                                  03-044-    po...nt   temporary use
22   s. Akhmetov       azakhsky         dated      04.05.20 11
                                                                  085-2 18    fann        o f laM
                                                                                                            48,00     1,908    pasture    hay   161372,00    18,00
                        Region      03 .08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      142/ 11
                                                                  03-044-    po...nt       private                             pasture,
23   L Baiag..ta       azakhsky         dated      07.05.2011                                               36,60     0,792               hay   66 984,00    18,00
                                                                  085-248     fann        property                             hayfleld
                        Region      0 1.08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      143/11
     D.                                                           03-044-    poas=t        private
24   Bulgald>~
                       azakhsky         dated      07.05.2011
                                                                  085-256     fann        property
                                                                                                            40,00     0,363    pasture    hay   21218,00     18,00
                        Region      03 .08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      144/11
     Ye .                                                         03-044-    po...nt       private
25                     azakhsky         dated      05.05.20 11                                             146,32     0,668    pasture    hay   56 498,00    18,00
     Kuzembekov                                                   085-262     fann        property
                        Region      03 .08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      141/11
                                                                  03-044-    po...nt   t em pora:lY use
26   Ye . Kyisy kov    azakhsky         dated      04.05.2011                                               28,70     0, 163   pasture    hay    13 768,00   18,00
                                                                  085-3 13    fann         o f laM
                        Region      03 .08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      147/11
     M.                                                           03-044-    po...nt   penn.a!ten t use
27                     azakhsky         dated      05.05.20 11                                              39,30     0,315    pasture    hay   26 472,00    18,00
     Tunwnl>ayev                                                  100-042     fann         o f laM
                        Region      04 .08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      145/11
                                                                  03-044-    po...nt   penn.altE:n t use
28   D. Kerimkulov     azakhsky         dated      00.00.2011                                               13,40     0,386    pasture    hay   32 224,00    18,00
                                                                  100-050     fann         o f laM
                        Region      03 .08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      148 /11
                                                                  03-044-    po...nl       ptivate                             pasture,
29   R. Tynybekov      azakhsky         dated      17.05.2011                                               19,20     0,264               hay   22 328,00    18,00
                                                                  100-447     fann        property                             hayfleld
                        Region      04 .08 .2011
                      Yenbelcs!Wc      135/11
                                                                  03-044-    po...nt   penn.a!ten t use
30   Zh. S~va          azakhsky         dated      06.05.20 11                                              25,00     0,235    hayfleld   hay    19 876,00   18,00
                                                                  085-028     fann         o f laM
                        Rerion      0 1.08 .2011
                        r e.noeK.SWK     l.,jOHl
31
     Zh.
     Aitkhozhlna
                     =alchsky
                       Region
                                          dated              - 08t
                                                     08.05.~ 1 ~(  O ~ad•                       i i4:U a52,0~ 1 w~9                                      hayfield     hay     43 896,00    18,00
                                       01.08.201 1
                    Y enbekshil<         264111
                                                                   03-044-     peasant          t empor.uy use                                           hayfield,
32   Ye. Be-gov      =alchsky             dated      03 .05.2011                                                              25,80            0,2 16                 hay     17 762,00    18,00
                                                                   085-1 44      fann                of land                                              pastun<
                       Region          23.08.201 1
                    Y enbekshil<         137111
                                                                   03-044-     peasant               private                                             hayf>eld,
33   R.. Kassenov    =alchsky             dated      08.05.20 11                                                              68,00            1,137                  hay     95 826,00    18,00
                                                                   085-176       fann               property                                              pastun<
                       Region          01.08.201 1
                    Y enbekshil<         140111
34
     v...            =alchsky             dated      07.05.2011
                                                                   03-044-     peasant               pri.va.te
                                                                                                                              44,00            0,249     hayf>eld     hay
     Dzhaksalykov                                                                                                                                                             21060,00     18,00
                                                                   085-283       fann               p roperty
                       Region          01.08.201 1
                    Y enbekshil<         146111
                                                                   03-044-     peasant          ~nn.utent use
35   B. Sanenhoayev =alchsky              dated      05.05.20 11                                                               8, 10           0,303     hayf>eld     hay     25 626,00    18,00
                                                                   100-053       fann                of land
                       Region          01.08.201 1
                    Y enbekshil<         134111
                                                                               peasant          t empor.uy use
36   A. Arzy>nb•tov  =alchsky             dated      04.05.2011       7                                                        6,60            0,147     hayf>eld     hay     12 432,00    18,00
                                                                                 fann                of land
                       Region          01.08.201 1
                    Y enbekshil<         313111
                                                                   03-044-     peasant          t empor.uy use                                            pastul'e,
37   Zh. Shaibekov   =alchsky             dated      05.05.20 11   128-017       fann                of land
                                                                                                                              27,00            0,408
                                                                                                                                                        plough land
                                                                                                                                                                      nw..    34000,00     18,00
                       Region          01.09.201 1
                    Y enbekshil<         314111
                                                                   03 0 44     pe~~t            tentpor~~e
38   M. Kadyrl>ayev  =alchsky             dated      25.07.20 11                                                              43,00            0,494      pastun<     hay     41 782,1)0   18,00
                                                                   128-018       fann                of land
                       Region          01.09.201 1
                    Y enbekshil<         302111
     D.                                                            03-044-     peasant          ~nn.utent use
39                   =alchsky             dated      06.05.2011                                                               55,80            1,125      pastun<     hay     93 880,00    18,00
     K~v                                                           043-009       fann                of land
                       Region          31.08.201 1
                    Y enbekshil<         303111
     K.                                                            03-044-     peasant          ~nn.utent use                                            hayf>eld,
40                   =alchsky             dated      06.05.20 11                                                              29, 10           1,578                  hay    130 756,00    18,00
     Kessikbayeva                                                  043-063       fann                of land                                              pastun<
                       Region          31.08.201 1
                    Y enbekshil<         304111
     A.                                                            03-044-     peasant          t empor.uy use
41                   =alchsky             dated      06.05.2011                                                               34,57            0,597      pastun<     hay     50 492,00    18,00
     Dikhanbayeva                                                  043-259       fann                of land
                       Region          31.08.201 1
                    Y enbekshil<         305111
                                                                   03-044-     peasant          t empor.uy use
42   D. Numekov      =alchsky             dated      06.05.20 11                                                              36, 11           0,509      pastun<     hay     42 288,00    18,00
                                                                   043-266       fann                of land
                       Region          31.08.201 1
                    Y enbekshil<         306111
                                                                   03-044-     peasant          t empor.uy use                                           pastw'e,
43   Zh. Sultanov    =alchsky             dated      22.07.2011                                                               79,78            0,792                  hay     66 984,00    18,00
                                                                   043-270       fann                of land                                             hayf>eld
                       Region          31.08.201 1
                    Y enbekshil<         307111
                                                                   03-044-     peasant          t empor.uy use
44   T.lb_...,.      =alchsky             dated      22.07.20 11                                                              53, 19           1,6 13     pastun<     hay    134 732,00    18,00
                                                                   043-280       fann                of land
                       Region          31.08.201 1
                    Y enbekshil<         308111
                                                                   03-044-     peasant          t empor.uy use
45   B. Tuitebayev   =alchsky             dated      22.07.2011                                                               60,95            0,000      pastun<     hay         17,00    18,00
                                                                   043-285       fann                of land
                       Region          31.08.201 1
                    Y enbekshil<         309111                    n'l-n44-    fi"".:K.:Io11t   t ""M1flnY.:~o1-Y 1l~""
46   1~.   J:i:okayev    .aza.k.hsky      dated      06.05.2011                                                               26,00            0,603      pastun<     !lay    50 492,00    18,00
                                                                   043-356       fann                of land
                           Region      31.08.201 1
                        Y enbekshil<     310111
                                                                 03-044-       peasant          t empor.uy use
47   K. Mazhikov         =alchsky         dated    22.07.20 11                                                                24,50            0,490      pastun<     hay     41442,1)0    18,00
                                                                 043-358         fann                of land
                           Region      31.08.201 1

48
     Sh.
     Usl<enbayeva
                        Y enbekshil<
                         =alchsky
                           Region
                                         31 1111
                                          dated
                                       01.09.201 1
                                                   06.05.~
                                                           c       C13r~!(
                                                               / 04 j-3
                                                                              ~ift• ft~'Pusi                              a   90, 1;   1   1     181      pastun<     hay     99 886,00    18,00

                        Y enbekshil<
     B.                                66/ 11 dat ed               03-04;      peasant          t empor.uy use
49                       =alchsky                                                                                                              0,074      pastun<     hay
     Kunanbayeva                       21.07 .201 1 05.05.20 11    263-490       fann                of land
                                                                                                                               2,00                                            3 129,00    18,00
                           Region
                     Yenbekshik     154/11
     A.                                                       03-044-     peasant   tempor.;ay use                            iniga.ted
50                    azokl1sky      dated      15.06.2011                                              19,00        0,010 plough land                      627,00   27,00
     Ab<>bakhriyev
                       Region     04.08 .2011                 263-536     fann         of land                                                ""
                     Yenbekshik     193/11                    03-044-                  private                                irrigated
                                                                         pe asant
51   S. Katkenov      azokl1sky      dated      17.05 .2011                                              2,00        0,011 plough land       hay            689,00   27,00
                       Region
                                                              263-6 19    fann        property
                                  09.08 .2011
     Sh.             Yenbekshik     157/11
                                                              03-044-    pe asant   penn.anent use                            iniga.ted   ~ntefor
52   Mukhame<zha azokl1sky           dated      28.04.2011                                               4,80        0,122 plough land                   15 292,00   27,00
                                                              262-021     fann         of land                                               hay
     nov               Region     05.08 .2011
                     Yenbekshik     158/11                    03-044-     Rauan                                               irrigated
     A.                                                                             penn.anent use                                        lucente for
53                    azokl1sky      dated      28.04.2011               pe asant                        1,00        0,088 plough land                    5 515,00   27,00
     Kyibassarova                                             263-047                  of land                                                hay
                       Region     05.08 .2011                             fann
                     Yenbekshik     133/11
     K.                                                       03-044-     peasant   tempor.;ay use                            iniga.ted   peremti.a.l
54   Muss<>balayev
                      azokl1sky      dated      15.06.2011    263-180     fann         of land
                                                                                                        88,00        0,001 plough land      grasses
                                                                                                                                                             63,00   27,00
                       Region     02.08 .2011
                     Yenbekshik     178/11                               Bakhtiyu
                                                              03-044-               penn.anent use                            irrigated
55   Sh. Nam.atov     azokl1sky      dated      17.05 .2011
                                                              263-069
                                                                         pe asant
                                                                                       of land
                                                                                                         5,00        0,355 plough land       hay         22 249,00   27,00
                       Region     15.08 .2011                             fann
                     Yenbekshik     270/11
                                                                          peasant   penn.anent use
56   K. Atkenov       azokl1sky      dated      27.07.2011       I
                                                                          fann         of land
                                                                                                       331,90        0,688    pas1uN         hay         58 188,00   18,00
                       Region     24.08 .2011
                     Yenbekshik     271/11                                             private
                                                                          peasant
51   IlL Zhanakov     azokl1sky      dated      30 .04.2011      2
                                                                          fann        property
                                                                                                       141 ,50       0,836    pas1uN         hay         70 706,00   18,00
                       Region     24.08 .2011
                     Yenbekshik     272/11
                                                              03-044-     peasant   penn.anent use
58   K. Zh.unus-sov   azokl1sky      dated      27.07.2011                                             182,00        1,506    pas1uN         hay        127 372,00   18,00
                       Region     24.08 .2011                 229-386     fann         of land
                     Yenbekshik     273/11
                                                                          peasant   tempor.;ay use
59   R. Alimbekov     azokl1sky      dated      25.07.2011       8
                                                                          fann         of land
                                                                                                       107,00        0,128    pas1uN         hay         10 826,00   18,00
                       Region     24.08 .2011
                     Yenbekshik     274/11
                                                                          peasant   tempor.;ay use
60   D. Rass ulbekov azokl1sky       dated      27.07.2011       9                                      40,00        0,114    pas1uN         hay          9 642,00   18,00
                                                                          fann         of land
                       Region     24.08 .2011
                     Yenbekshik     275/11
                                                                         pe asant   tempor.;ay use
61   c. Abilov        azokl1sky      dated      27.07.2011      10
                                                                          fann         of land
                                                                                                       152,90        0,752    pas1uN         hay         63 602,00   18,00
                       Region     25.08 .2011
                     Yenbekshik     276/11
                                                                         pe asant   tempor.;ay use
62   M. Telbayev      azokl1sky      dated      04.05 .2011     11                                      95,00        0,535    pas1uN         hay         45 248,00   18,00
                                                                          fann         of land
                       Region     25.08 .2011
                     Yenbekshik     278/11
     0.                                                       03-044-     peasant   tempor.;ay use
63                    azokl1sky      dated      25.07.2011                                             127,60        0,195    pas1uN         hay         16 492,00   18,00
     Shalshyhbayev                                            229-080     fann         of land
                       Region     25.08 .2011
                     Yenbekshik     279/11
                                                              03-044-    pe asant   tempor.;ay use
64   B.Makashev       azokl1sky      dated      01.05 .2011                                            275,10        0,319    pas1uN         hay         26 980,00   18,00
                       Region
                                                              229-0 10    fann         of land
                                  25.08 .2011

                                                30.04.~ · ~q
                                                                                                     a78,0~ ~
                                                                      a•i·~~.j
                                                                     .>
                     Yenbekshik     280/11
     IlL
65                   azokl1sky       dated                                                                                    pas1uN         hay        260 244,00   18,00
     Niyazbakiyev
                      Region      25.08 .2011           122~0~                                                   2      81
                     Yenbekshik     281/11
                                                              03-044-    pe asant   penn.anent use
66   IlL Abilov      azokl1sky       dated      04.05 .2011
                                                              229-039     fann         of land
                                                                                                       249,70        1,749    pas1uN         hay        147 672,00   18,00
                      Region      25.08 .2011
                     Yenbekshik     282/11                    03-044-     peasant   tempor.;ay use
67   T. Alipbekov    azokl1sky       dated      01.05 .2011                                            3 16,00       1,350    pas1uN         hay        113 840,00   18,00
                      Region
                                                              229-072     fann         of land
                                  25.08 .2011
                     Yenbekshik     283/11
                                                              03-044-     peasant      private
68   S. Tastanov     azokl1sky       dated      30 .04.2011                                            735,00        4, 190   pas1uN         hay        353 278,00   18,00
                      Region
                                                              229-083     fann        property
                                  25.08 .2011
                       Yenbekshilc               284111
     K                                                                     03-044-    peas..ant   tempor.uy we
69   Ald.abergenov
                        azokhsky                  dated      25.07.2011
                                                                           229- 118    fann          o fialld
                                                                                                                    250,00    0,893   pasture         my           75 528,00    18,00
                         Region                26.08.20 11
                       Yenbekshilc               120111
                                                                           03-044-    peas..ant   tempor.uy we                        pasture,
70   c. Pra1iyev        azokhsky                  dated      0 4.05.2011
                                                                           229- 124    fann          o fialld
                                                                                                                    250,00    1,893   myf>eld
                                                                                                                                                      my          159 174,00    18,00
                         Region                01.08.20 11
                       Yenbekshilc               122111
                                                                           03-044-    peas..ant   tempor.uy we
71   c. Pra1iyev        azokhsky                  dated      0 4.05.2011
                                                                           229- 143    fann          o fialld
                                                                                                                    160,00    0,649   pasture         my          liS 870,00    18,00
                         Region                01.08.20 11
                       Yenbekshilc               121111
     T.                                                                    03-044-    peas..ant   tempor.uy we
72   Kenzhebekov
                        azokhsky                  dated      0 4.05.2011
                                                                           229- 138    fann          o fialld
                                                                                                                    342,80    1,376   pasture         my           5 4382,00    18,00
                         Region                01.08.20 11
                       Yenbekshilc               123111
     A-                                                                    03-044-    peasant     tempor.uy we
73   Dossumbayev
                        azokhsky                  dated      02.05.2011    229- 145    fann          o fialld
                                                                                                                     80,00    0,486   pasture         my           41 104,00    18,00
                         Region                01.08.20 11
                       Yenbekshilc               124111
                                                                           03-044-    peas..ant   tempor.uy we
74   K Uteuliyeva       azokhsky                  dated      0 1.05.2011   229- 146    fann          o fialld
                                                                                                                    250,00    1,528   pasture         my          129 234,00    18,00
                         Region                01.08.20 11

                       Yenbekshilc               126111
                                                                           03-044-    peas..ant   tempor.uy we
15   R.   Kh.a~nitov    azokhsky                  dated    0 4.05.2011
                                                                           229- 176    fann          o fialld
                                                                                                                    114,1 0   1,372   pasture         my          ll6 040,00    18,00
                         Region                01.08.20 11

                       Yenbekshilc              127111
                                                                           03-044-    peas..ant   tempor.uy we                        pasture,
76   B . Tastan.ov      azokhsky                  dated      30.04.2011
                                                                           229-206     fann          o fialld
                                                                                                                    108,50    0,535   myf>eld
                                                                                                                                                      my           45 248,00    18,00
                         Region               02.08.20 11
                       Yenbekshilc              128111
                                                                           03-044-    peasant     tempor.uy we
77   T. Sadibek         azokhsky                  dated      03.05.2011
                                                                           229-209     fann          o fialld
                                                                                                                    100,00    0,023   pasture         my            1946,00     18,00
                         Region               02.08.20 11
                       Yenbekshilc              149111
                                                                           03-044-    peas..ant   tempor.uy we
78   T. Adykenov        azokhsky                  dated      03.05.2011
                                                                           229-2 17    fann          o fialld
                                                                                                                     71,76    0,472   pasture         my           39 920,00    18,00
                         Region               04.08.20 11
                       Yenbekshilc              150111
                                                                           03-044-    peas..ant   tempor.uy we
79   KKozhakhov         azokhsky                  dated      0 1.05.2011
                                                                           229-2 18    fann          o fialld
                                                                                                                     84,60    0,547   pasture         my           46 264,00    18,00
                         Region               04.08.20 11
                       Yenbekshilc              151111
                                                                           03-044-    peasant        privat e
80   KKozhakhov         azokhsky                  dated      30.04.2011
                                                                           229-220     fann         property
                                                                                                                     96,00    0,007   pasture         my              592,00    18,00
                         Region               04.08.20 11
                       Yenbekshilc              298111
                                                                           03-044-    peasant     tempor.uy we                        pasture,
81   B . Nurakynov      azokhsky                  dated      0 1.05.~      229-349     fann          o fialld
                                                                                                                    102,00    0,015 ploughialld       my            1268,00     18,00


                                                                                              t i·~-ius.S 1;;-;J """"
                         Region               27.08.20 11

82   T.Kalkab~
                       Yenbekshilc
                        azokhsky
                         Region
                                                299111
                                                  dated
                                              27.08.20 11
                                                             23.07   .l_y, ,?~4~ >
                                                                                 a
                                                                           229-3~
                                                                                                                 I ~51
                                                                                                                  ~ 63,20             pasture         my           2 1228,00    18,00

                       Yenbekshilc              300111
     A-                                                                    03-044-    peas..ant   tempor.uy we
83   Kozharnkulov
                        azokhsky                  dated      23.07.2011
                                                                           229- 100    fann          o fialld
                                                                                                                    552,1 0   0,773   pasture         my           65 378,00    18,00
                         Region               27.08.20 11
                       Yenbekshilc              301111
                                                                           03-044-    peas..ant   tempor.uy we
84   0. Raissov         azokhsky                  dated      23.07.2011
                                                                           229- 156     fann         o fialld
                                                                                                                      9,30    0,013   pasture         my           65 378,00    18,00
                         Region               27.08.20 11
                       Yenbekshilc              218111
                                                                           03-044-    peas..ant                                       irrigated
85   A.. Ushurova       azokhsky                  dated      13.08.2011
                                                                           263-5 17     fann
                                                                                                  tempor.uy we        3,00    0,067 ploughialld       my            8 398,00    27,00
                         Region               17 .08.20 11
                       Yenbekshilc              230111
                                                                           03-044-    peasant     penn.anent we
86   V. Mikheyev        azokhsky                  dated      11.05.2011
                                                                           263-262     fann          o fialld
                                                                                                                      2,00    0,200   pasture         my           16 916,00    18,00
                         Region               26.07.20 11
                       Yenbekshilc 117112-08    231111                                                                                              c.arrot~
                                                                           03-044-    peas..ant   penn.anent we
87   D. Yussupova       azokhsky      da.t ed     dated      11 .08.2011                                             25,00    0,565   pasture      c~..a:ge~     1749 890,00   672,00
                                                                           263-326      fann         o fialld
                         Region    16.04.2012 18.08.2011                                                                                          radish, beet
                          t enl)@kslllk         L.~~··                   03-044-    peasant           penn.anent use
88     R. Kebirov          azakhsky             dated      28.04 2011                                                   3,00        0,325     pastun.         hay    27 488,00   18,00
                                                                        263-0347      fum                of land
                            Region           21.07.20 11
                          Yenb.kshik           233J11
                                                                        03-044-     peasant           penn.anent use
89     0. Taitarazov       azakhsky             dat ed     05.05 2011                                                   2,00        0,203     pastun.         hay    17 170,00   18,00
                                                                        263-352       fum                of land
                            Region           21.07.20 11
                          Yenb.kshik           234111
       A. Khassoanov,                                                   03-044-     peasant           penn.anent use
90                         azakhsky             dat ed     30.04 2011                                                   3,50        0,346     pastun.         hay    27 826,00    4,00
       S. hnbergenov                                                    263-356       fum                of land
                            Region           26.07.20 11
                          Yenb.kshik           235J11
                                                                        03-044-     peasant           penn.anent use
91     S. Nas-syrov        azakhsky             dat ed     11.05 2011                                                   5,50        0,550     pastun.         hay    46 518,00   18,00
                                                                        263-357       fum                of land
                            Region           26.07.20 11
                          Yenb.kshik           236J11
       N.                                                               03-044-     peasant           penn.anent use
92                         azakhsky             dat ed     12.05 2011                                                   6,00        0,040     pastun.         hay    3 384,00    18,00
       lye:rnbergen.ova                                                 263-358       fum                of land
                            Region           26.07.20 11
                          Yenb.kshik           238J11
                                                                        03-044-    peasant
93     K. lzbakiyev        azakhsky             dat ed     29.04 2011                                 tempor.uy use     5,00        0,029     pastun.         hay     2 452,00   18,00
                                                                        263-455       fum
                            Region           21.07.20 11
                          Yenb.kshik           194111
                                                                                    peasant           penn.anent use                          inlga.ted
94     N.Kuanov            azakhsky             dat ed     08.082011       13                                           2,00        0,155                     hay    19 430,00   27,00
                                                                                      fum                of land                            plough land
                            Region           15.08.20 11
                          Yenb.kshik           195J11
                                                                                    pc~.u\t           pc~ntu::e                              ~~ted
95     S.Kazyb~            azakhsky             dat ed     08.082011       14                                           2,00        0,139                     hay    17 424,00   27,00
                                                                                      fum                of land                            plough land
                            Region           15.08.20 11
                          Yenb.kshik           196111
                                                                        03-044-     peasant           penn.anent use                          inlga.ted
96     T. Betimbayev       azakhsky             dat ed     04.082011                                                    1,80        0,032                             4 012,00   27,00
                         Region              15.08.20 11
                                                                        262-034       fum                of land                            plough land       ""
                       Yenb.kshik 118112-08    197111
                                                                        03-044-    peasant            penn.anent use                          inlga.ted
97     B. Alirnov       azakhsky     dat ed     dat ed     03.082011                                                    3,00        0,063                     hay     7 896,00   27,00
                                                                        262-035       fum                of land                            plough land
                         Region   16.0420 12 15.08.20 11
                       Yenb.kshik              198J11
                                                                        03-044-    peasant                                                    inlga.ted
98     A. As!Wov        azakhsky                dat ed     01.082011                                  tempor.uy use     8,70        0,050                     hay     6 268,00   27,00
                                                                        262-062       fum                                                   plough land
                         Region              15.08.20 11


                                                                        ~g:t~t ~ar iiG.J a s.~ ~
                       Yenb.kshik              199111
                                                                                                                                             inlga.ted
99     A. Aisrukhanov azakhsky                  dat ed     09.08. t                                                                                           hay    12 034,00   27,00
                         Region              15.08.20 11                                                                        4       6 plough land
                       Yenb.kshik              200J11                                                    lifetime
                                                                        03-044-    peasant                                                    inlga.ted
100    T~ Ch.aigozov    azakhsky                dat ed     09.082011                                   il'lheritable    5,00        0,133                     hay    11658,00    27,00
                                                                        262-082       fum                                                   plough land
                         Region              15.08.20 11                                                ownership
                       Yenb.kshik              201111                                                    lifetime
       s.               azakhsky                dat ed
                                                                        03-044-     peasant
                                                                                                       il'lheritable
                                                                                                                                              inlga.ted
                                                                                                                                                              hay                27,00
10 1                                                       09.082011    262-084                                         9,20        0,223                            27 952,00
       Meirnankul.ov                                                                  fum                                                   plough land
                         Region              15.08.20 11                                                ownership
                       Yenb.kshik              202J11
                                                                        03-044-     peasant                                                   inlga.ted
102    A. lbragim.ov    azakhsky                dat ed     03.082011                                  tempor.uy use     5,00        0,087                     hay    10 906,00   27,00
                                                                        262-098       fum                                                   plough land
                         Region              15.08.20 11
                       Yenb.kshik              203J11                   n'l-n44-   flP;Io"<;;lol'lt                                          l l"''iV!"tp,i
IU~    T. K.okkozov     azakhsky                dat ed     10 .082011                                 tempor.uy use     8,00        0,180                     hay    22 562,00   27,00
                                                                        262-108       fum                                                   plough land
                         Region              16.08.20 11
                       Yenb.kshik              207111
                                                                        03-044-    peasant            penn.anent use                          inlga.ted
104    L Yesberg;e.nov  azakhsky                dat ed     10.082011                                                   17,9 1       0,864                     hay   108 302,00   27,00
                                                                        263-236       fum                of land                            plough land
                         Region              16.08.20 11
                       Yenb.kshik              208J11
105
       u.               azakhsky                dat ed     01.082011
                                                                        03-044-     peasant
                                                                                                      tempor.uy use     4,00        0,064
                                                                                                                                              inlga.ted
                                                                                                                                                              hay     8 022,00   27,00
       Akim.dzhanov                                                     263-251       fum                                                   plough land
                         Region              16.08.20 11
                       Yenb.kshik              209111
                                                                         03-044-    peasant           penn.anent use                          inlga.ted
106    T. Arinov        azakhsky                dat ed     02.082011                                                    5,00        0,155                     hay    19 430,00   27,00
                                                                        263-0261      fum                of land                            plough land
                         Region              16.08.20 11
                          r e.noeK.SWK                  .O:::l.,jHl
       y..._ Makhpirov                                                               03-044-   peasant   penn.utent use                                          iniga.ted
107                        =alchsky                      dated        11.08-2011     263-366    fann        of land
                                                                                                                                           3,00        0,068 plough land         hay          8 524,00    27,00
                             Region                  17.08.201 1
                          Y enbekshil<                 214111
                                                                                     03-044-             penn.utent use                                          iniga.ted
108    K- Tokhtiyeva       =alchsky                      dated        02.08.2011                                                           2,00        0,10 1 plough land        hay         12 660,00    2 7,00
                             Region
                                                                                     263-386                of land
                                                     17.08.201 1
                          Y enbekshil<                 215111                        03-044-   peasant   penn.utent use                                          iniga.ted
109    A. Koshata,yeva     =alchsky                      dated        11.08 .20 11                                                         2,00        0,03 1 plough land        hay          3 886,00    27,00
                             Region
                                                                                     263-393    fann        of land
                                                     17.08.201 1
                          Y enbekshil<                 216111                        03-044-   peasant   penn.utent use                                           iniga.ted
110    D. lzakhunov        =alchsky                      dated        12 .08.2011    263-394    fann        of land
                                                                                                                                           5,00        0,077
                                                                                                                                                                plough land
                                                                                                                                                                                 hay          9 652,00    2 7,00
                             Region                  17.08.201 1
                          Y enbekshil<                 217111
                                                                                     03-044-   peasant                                                            iniga.ted   perellllial
Il l   D. B ..kzhanov      =alchsky                      dated        03 .08.20 11                       t empor.uy use                    3,00        0,048                                  6 016,00    27,00
                             Region
                                                                                     263-505    fann                                                            plough land    grasses
                                                     17.08.201 1
       y..._              Y enbekshil<                 219111                        03-044-   peasant                                                            iniga.ted
112    Kumanbakiyev
                           =alchsky                      dated        05.08.2011     263-527    fann
                                                                                                         t empor.uy use                    2,00        0,034
                                                                                                                                                                plough land
                                                                                                                                                                                 hay          4262,00     2 7,00
                             Region                  17.08.201 1
                          Y enbekshil<                 220111
       T.                                                                            03-044-   peasant                                                            iniga.ted
113    Kumanbakiyev
                           =alchsky                      dated        02.08.20 11    263-528    fann
                                                                                                         t empor.uy use                    3,00        0,047
                                                                                                                                                                plough land
                                                                                                                                                                                 hay          5 892,1)0   27,00
                             Region                  17.08.201 1
       z.                 Y enbekshil<                 22 1111                       03 0 44   pe~~t                                                             ~~ted.
114    Tokh<yl>akiyev      =alchsky                      dated        13.08.20 11    263-534    fann
                                                                                                         t empor.uy use                    4,00        0,067 plough land         hay          8 398,00    27,00
       a                     Region                  17.08.201 1
                          Y enbekshil<                 222111                        03-044-   peasant                                                            iniga.ted
11 5   s. Kerimb..kov      =alchsky                      dated        04.07 .2011
                                                                                     263-539    fann
                                                                                                         t empor.uy use                    3,00        0,047
                                                                                                                                                                plough land
                                                                                                                                                                                 hay          5 892,00    2 7,00


                                                                                                                                      a
                             Region                  17.08.201 1

116
       M.
       Zharnylshl,yeva
                          Y enbekshil<
                           =alchsky
                             Region
                          Y enbekshil<
                                                       223111
                                                         dated
                                                     18.08.201 1
                                                       225111
                                                                      05.08.~ ;~f!( ~ad• t~rl::l
                                                                                                               lifetime
                                                                                                                                           2.0~    1
                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                                 iniga.ted
                                                                                                                                                          30 plough land
                                                                                                                                                                                 hay          3 760,00    27,00

                                                                                     03-044-   peasant                                                            iniga.ted
117    A. Sassykov         =alchsky                      dated        04.09.2011
                                                                                     263-264    fann
                                                                                                            inheritablR                    3,00        0,700
                                                                                                                                                                plough land
                                                                                                                                                                               lu.ceme       43 872,00    2 7,00
                             Region                  07 .09.201 1                                           ownership
                          Y enbekshil<                 226111
                                                                                               peasant   penn.utent use
118    D. Ba<;rrkhanov     =alchsky                      dated        08.08.20 11      84
                                                                                                fann        of land
                                                                                                                                           3,00        0,063      pastun<        hay          7 896,00    27,00
                             Region                  18.08.201 1
                          Y enbekshil<                 228111                        03-044-   peasant   penn.utent use
119    Ye. Sabirov         =alchsky                      dated        03 .05.2011    262-112    fann        of land
                                                                                                                                      640,00           7,859      pastun<        hay        659 870,00    18,00
                             Region                21.07 .201 1
                          Y enbekshil<    94112-08   237111
                                                                                     03-044-   peasant
120    Zh. Kumanova        =alchsky         da.ted       dated        27.04.20 11    263-407    fann
                                                                                                                 !Rase                     5,00        0, 100     pastun<        hay          8 458,00    18,00
                             Region      29.03.2012 26.0 7.201 1
                          Y enbekshil<    03-08-33-       159111                               Birkyat
                                                                                  03-044-                penn.utent use                                           iniga.ted
121    N.Akhtunov          =alchsky       ,q-8 dat ed      dated     28.04.2011 263-048        peasant                                     6,00        0, 172                  lu.ceme       10 780,00    2 7,00
                                                                                                            of land                                             plough land
                             Region      29.11 .2011 01.08.201 1                                fann
                          Y enbekshil<    03-08-33-       204111                  n'l-n44-               fU"n1'1 .:0,.,...1'1t 1l~~
~~~    K..h. y a.kubova    .aza.k.hsky   .LI,-1 4 dated    da..ted   00.00.2011 263-173                                                    2,00        0,064                                  8 022,00    2 7,00
                                                                                                               of land
                            Region       12.12.2011 16 .08.201 1
                        Y enbekshil<      03-08-33-       212111                  03-044-                penn.utent use
123    N. Dzhama.ova     =alchsky        ,q-10 date<!      dated     00.00.20 11 263-0295                                                  2,00        0,032                                  4 012,1)0   27,00
                                                                                                            of land
                           Region        12.12.2011 16 .08.201 1
                        Y enbekshil<      134112-08
       D.                                               23111 dat ed              03-044-      peasant   t empor.uy use
124                      =alchsky             da.ted                 29.08.2011 29 1-139                                                  23, 10       4,000 plough land       lu.ceme      250 698,00    2 7,00
       Dzh.unlsba,yev
                           Region        19.04.2012 31.08.201 1                                 fann         of land
                        Y enbekshil<
                                                     57111 dat ed                    03-044-   peasant   t empor.uy use
125    y ... Umirallyev =alchsky                                                                                                                                  pastun<        hay          4 652,1)0
                                                     21.07 .201 1 02.05.20 11        295-395    fann         of land
                                                                                                                                      2 16,00          0, 110                                             18,00
                           Region
       National
       holding            Yenbekshik      31 5/ 11                                                                                             inlgat ed
                                                                     03-044-    commercial tempor4.l'Y we
126    COmpallJ'          azakhsky         dat ed     25.07 .2011                                                  I 106,50        6,36 1 plough lam,          hay          1 131 800,00      80,00
                                                                     128-035      fanning        of laM
       Ahnatykurylys        Region      0 1.09.2011                                                                                         hayfteld
       JSC
                          Yenbekshik      276/ 11
                                                                     03-044-      pe.as.ant   tempor4.l'Y we
127    SharuaJSC          azakhsky         dated      25.07 .2011                                                  I 000,00        2,607        pasture        hay           218 886,00       18,00
                                                                     209-062       fanu          of laM
                            Region      25 .08.2011
       Private--          Yenbekshik      239/ 11                                                                                                 non-
                                                                     03-044-    commercial tempor4.l'Y we
128    industrial firm    azakhsky         dat ed     17.08.2011                                                     127,00        0,700        irrigat ed winter wheat      130 382,00       40,00
                                                                     085- 184     fanning        of laM
       TUR~ENLLP            Region      19 .08.2011                                                                                           plough laM
       Chilikpond
                          Yenbekshik      297/ 11                    03-044-    commercial       privat e
129                       azakhsky         dat ed     23.07 .2011                                                  3 22 1,05       8,982        pasture        hay           689 640,00       18,00
       fish farm LLP                                                 229-22 1     fanning       property
                            Region      27 .08.2011
                          Yenbekshik      31 2/ 11
       Karnilla and                                                  03-044-    commercial tempor4.l'Y we
130                       azakhsky         dat ed     25.07 .2011                                                    134,00        0,363        pasture        hay             30 762,66      18,00
       KKLLP                                                         128-0 12     fanning        of laM
                            Relrion     0 1.09.2011
                          Yenbekshik       125/ 11
       KAZJ!XIM                                                      03-044-    commercial       privat e
13 1                      azakhsky         dat ed     08.05.2011                                                     120,00        0, 112       pasture        hay              9 472,66      18,00
       ~roup LLP                                                     229-147      fanning       property
                            Region      0 1.08.2011
       KAZJ!XIM
                          Yenbekshik       138/ 11
                                                            r       ~ m-<l4•     o~fJ I                I
                                                                                                JP~at. _                       1
132
       ~roup LLP
                          azakhsky
                            Region
                          Yenbekshik
                                           dat ed
                                        03 .08.2011
                                          247/ 11
                                                      08.05.t   l
                                                                    ~08f2 l
                                                                     03-04 !
                                                                                ).._ ..In     . n't            a      2o,OO'
                                                                                                                               8         33
                                                                                                                                                pasture        hay             19 706,66      18,00

       KAZJ!XIM                                                                 commercial tempor4.l'Y we •
133                       azakhsky         dat ed     29.07 .2011                                                     28,90        0,0 18       pasture        hay              1 522,66      18,00
       ~roup LLP                                                     085-084      fanning        of laM
                            Region      20 .08.2011
                                          324/ 11
       M.                                                            03-046-      pe.as.ant   pe.nnanen1 we
134                        Ili region      dat ed     02.08.2011                                                   10,06       0, 10 1          pasture        hay         16 034,00       34,00
       Kadirl>~J:diyeva                                              220-07 1      fanu          of laM
                                        02 .09.2011
       s.                                 326/ 11
                                                                     03-046-      pe.as.ant      privat e                                       irrigat ed
135    Kozhaklun.etov      Ili region      dat ed     02.08.2011                                                   36, 13      0,599                          onion       2 074 246,00     788,00
                                                                     220-1 06      fanu         property                                      plough laM
       a                                02 .09.2011
                                          31 9/ 11
                                                                     03-046-      pe.as.ant   pe.nnanen1 we                                     irrigat ed
136          K. Uaiys      Ili region      dat ed     02.08.2011                                                   6,99        0,229                          nWzR         11 3 042,00     105,00
                                                                     220-033       fanu          of laM                                       plough laM
                                        0 1.09.2011
                                           321/ 11
                                                                     03-046-      pe.as.ant   common shared                                     irrigat ed
137         IlL Badalov    Ili region      dat ed     02.08.2011                                                   3,58        0,3 14                          hay         49 848,00       34,00
                                                                     220-067       fanu         ownership                                     plough laM
                                        02 .09.2011
                                          322/ 11
                                                                     03-046-      pe.as.ant   common shared                                     irrigat ed
138         M. Badalov     Ili region      dat ed     02.08.2011                                                   1,0 1       0,047                           hay          7 462,00       34,00
                                                                     220-068       fanu         ownership                                     plough laM
                                        02 .09.2011
                                          327/ 11
                                                                     03-046-      pe.as.ant   common shared
139        Y. BUtas$OV     Ili region      dat ed     02.08.2011                                                   9,72        0,252            pasture        hay         26 992,00       23,00
                                                                     220-137       fanu         ownership
                                        02 .09.2011
                                          328/ 11
                                                                     03-046-      pe.as.ant                                                     irrigat ed
140        IL Kassy:mov    Ili region      dat ed     02.08.2011                              tempor4.l'Y we       20,25       0,249                           hay         39 528,00       34,00
                                                                     220-138       fanu                                                       plough laM
                                        02 .09.2011
                                          329/ 11
                                                                     03-046-      pe.as.ant                                                     irrigat ed
14 1        R. &lamov      Ili region      dat ed     02.08.2011                              tempor4.l'Y we       2,52        0,057                           hay          9 048,00       34,00
                                                                     220-169       fanu                                                       plough laM
                                        03 .09.2011
                                          338/ 11
                                                                     03-046-      pe.as.ant                                                     irrigat ed
142         R. &lamov      Ili region      dat ed     02.08.2011                              tempor4.l'Y we       0,78        0,0 19                        pumpkin        9 952,00       111,00
                                                                     220-2 18      fanu                                                       plough laM
                                        04 .09.2011
                                          330/ 11
                                                                     03-044-      pe.as.ant   pe.nnanen1 we                                     irrigat ed
143    Kh. Kassy:mova      Ili region      dat ed     02.08.2011                                                   3,09        0,054                           hay          8 572,00       34,00
                                                                     220-177       fanu          of laM                                       plough laM
                                        03 .09.2011
                                        ,j_j! H 1
                                                                     03-0 46 -    peasant     penn..utent use                        iniga.ted
144     R. Urhurova      Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011                                               2,32     0,044                   hay         6 98 4,00    34,00
                                                                     220-179       fum           o fw.i                            p loughw.i
                                      03.09 .2011
                                        332/11
               K                                                     03-0 46 -    peasant     penn..utent use                        iniga.ted
145                      Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011                                               3,44     0,057                wat ermelon   114 294,00    426,00
       Bekmurzayev                                                   220-18 7      fum           o f w.i                           p loughw.i
                                      03.09 .2011
                                        334/1 1
                                                                     03-0 46 -    peasant                                            iniga.ted
146        KSadyrov      Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011                            te mpora!Y use     6,3 1    0, 134                  hay        2 1 272,00    34,00
                                                                     220-20 4      fum                                             p loughw.i
                                      03.09 .2011
                                        335/11
             K                                                       03-0 46 -    peasant     penn..utent use                        iniga.ted
147                      Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011                                               1,40     0,030                   hay         4 76 2,00    34,00
       Maltalsl>ayeva                                                220-205       fum           o f w.i                           p loughw.i
                                      03.09 .2011
                                        33611 1
           K                                                         03-0 46 -    peasant                                            iniga.ted
148                      Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011                            te mpora!Y use     4, 18    0, 105                  hay        16 668,00     34,00
       Kurmanl>ayev


                                                                                                                 o
                                                                                                                ao.~ o,f
                                                                     220-206       fum                                             p loughw.i
                                      03.09 .2011              ~




                                                      02.08.~ ~g;f~( ~au~
                                                                                              ~ tti:U
                                        33711 1
                                                                                                                                     iniga.ted
149     A-~anov          Iii region      da.ted
                                                                                                                                   p loughw.i
                                                                                                                                                  mm..       263 598 ,00   105,00
                                      03.09 .2011
                                        350/11
                                                                     03-0 46-     peasant        private
150     A-~anov          Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011                                               6,00     0, 109     pasture      hay        17 304,00     34,00
                                                                     220-36 6      fum          prope rty
                                      06.09 .2011
                                        372/11
                                                                     03-0 46 -    peasant        private
15 1    I.   Gassanov    Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011                                               34,0 0   2,2 49     pasture      hay        240896,00     23,00
                                                                     26 9-006      fum          prope rty
                                      08.09 .2011
                                        33911 1                                                                                       non-
                                                                     03-0 46 -    peasant        private
152    L     ~sanova     Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011                                               19, 16   0,586      iniga.ted    hay        62 768,00     23,00
                                                                     220-223       fum          prope rty
                                      05.09 .2011                                                                                  p loughw.i
                                        340/11                                    peasant
                                                                     03-0 46 -                penn..utent use
153        A- Uil<elov   Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011                  fum                          20,8 0   0,236      pasture      hay        25278,00      23,00
                                                                     220-26 2                    o f w.i
                                      05.09 .2011                                (agrarian)
                                        341111
                                                                     03-0 46 -    peasant        private
154     V. Posmakov      Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011                                               60,0 0   0,442      pasture      hay        47 344,00     23,00
                                                                     220-29 2      fum          prope rty
                                      05.09 .2011
               s.                       342/11
                                                                     03-0 46 -    peasant        private                            iniga.ted
15 5   Kozhaklunetov     Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011
                                                                     220-298       fum          prope rty
                                                                                                                 10,50    0,571
                                                                                                                                   ploughw.i
                                                                                                                                                  mm..       281 8 62,00   105,00
               a                      05.09 .2011
                                        344/1 1
                                                                     03-0 46 -    peasant        private
156     A-Suliyevo.      Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011                                               15, 14   0, 153     pasture      hay        16 388,00     23,00
                                                                     220-33 1      fum          prope rty
                                      05.09 .2011
                                        345/11
                                                                     03-0 46 -    peasant        private                            iniga.ted
157     A.Suliyevo.      Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011                                               21,95    0,453                   hay        71 914,00     34,00
                                                                     220-33 2      fum          prope rty                          ploughw.i
                                      05.09 .2011
                                        34711 1
                                                                     03-0 46 -    peasant        private
158     A- Butkevicll    Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011                                               59,0 0   0,6 73     pasture      hay        72086,00      23,00
                                                                     220-36 1      fum          prope rty
                                      06.09 .2011


                                        349/11
                                                                     03-0 46 -    peasant        private
159     A- Butkevicll    Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011                                               4,73     0, 148     pasture      hay        15 852,00     23,00
                                                                     220-365       fum          prope rty
                                      06.09 .20 1 1


                                        348111
                                                                     03-0 46 -    peasant        private
160     C.Zukayeva       Iii region      da.ted       0 2.08 .2011                                               2,42     0,225      pasture      hay        24 100,00     23,00
                                                                     220-36 2      fum          prope rty
                                      06.09 .2011
                                         .,j.:> I H 1
                                                                            03-046-    peasant   common shared
161    N. &hkenov         IIi region      da.ted          02.08.20 11                                                 35,00      0,393      past=e          hay        42 096,00      23,00
                                                                            220-391     fann       O'Wl'tership
                                       06.09.20 11
      G. Botabayeva,                     352111
                                                                            03-046-    peasant   common shared                              inlga.ted
162         A.            IIi region      dated           02.08.20 11                                                  3,78      0,055                     onion       196 456,00     736,00
                                                                            220-392     fann       O'Wl'tership                           plough lal1d
      A va:rnyssyrn.ov                 06.09.20 11
                                         353/ 11
                                                                            03-046-    pQ.annt      priv.atQ,                              ;mg._,.d
163      T. Belalov       IIi region      dated           02.08.20 11                                                 19,68      0,303                   watermelon   980 196,00      687,00
                                                                            220-393     fann       property                               plough lal1d
                                       06.09.20 11




164     B . Saduova       IIi region
                                         35411 1
                                          dated
                                       06.09.20 11
                                                          02.08.~
                                                                        ~

                                                                        , 2 ~~
                                                                             ;y_ ) fi'~ i          ~4~            a      86    ·1 r8        inlga.ted
                                                                                                                                          plough lal1d
                                                                                                                                                            bee t     1 115 7 16,00   7 41 ,00




                                         35511 1
                                                                            03-046-    peasant      private                                 inlga.ted
165    Zh.. Babazov       IIi region      dated           02.08.20 11                                                 10,77      0, 172                watermelon     630 872,00      779,00
                                                                            220-430     fann       property                               plough lal1d
                                       06.09.20 11
                                         35611 1
                                                                            03-046-    peasant   common shared                              inlga.ted
166   u. Aljymbayev       IIi region      dated           02.08.20 11
                                                                            220-446     fann       O'Wl'tership
                                                                                                                       1,80      0,398
                                                                                                                                          plough lal1d
                                                                                                                                                            hay        63 182,00      34,00
                                       07.09.20 11
                                         35711 1
            K.                                                              03-046-    peasant      private                                 inlga.ted
167                       IIi region      dated           02.08.20 11                                                  1,90      0,325                      hay        5 1 594,00     34,00
       C ha>n<hlyeva                                                        220-448     fann       property                               plough lal1d
                                       07.09.20 11
                                         35811 1
                                                                            03-046-    peasant      private                                 inlga.ted
168     V. Pochtar        IIi region      dated           02.08.20 11                                                  1,50      0,085                      hay        13 494,00      34,00
                                                                            220-452     fann       property                               plough lal1d
                                       07.09.20 11
                                         35911 1
                                                                            03-046-    peasant      private                                 inlga.ted
169    A. Rysbayev        IIi region      dated           02.08.20 11                                                  1,50      0, 102                     hay        16 192,00      34,00
                                                                            220-455     fann       property                               plough lal1d
                                       07.09.20 11
                                         36011 1
                                                                            03-046-    peasant      private                                 inlga.ted
170    S . A.pobekov      IIi region      dated           02.08.20 11                                                  2,00      0,033                      hay         5 238,00      34,00
                                                                            220-456     fann       property                               plough lal1d
                                       07.09.20 11
                                         36 1111
171      U. Alimov        IIi region      dated           02.08.20 11
                                                                            03-046-    peasant      private
                                                                                                                       3,78      0, 105
                                                                                                                                            inlga.ted      ..wz.,      5 1 832,00     105,00
                                                                            220-465     fann       property                               plough lal1d     onion
                                       07.09.20 11
                                         36:211 1
                                                                            03-046-    peasant   common shared                              inlga.ted
172     K.Badalov         IIi region      dated           02.08.20 11                                                 21,29      0, 172                    nWz,e       8 4 904,00     105,00
                                                                            220-470     fann       O'Wl'tership                           plough lal1d
                                       07.09.20 11
                                         36311 1                                                                                              non-
                                                                            03-046-    peasant      private
173     L Karimov         IIi region      dated           02.08.20 11                                                 20,00      0, 138     inlga.ted       hay        14 782,00      23,00
                                                                            22 1-420    fann       property
                                       07.09.20 11                                                                                        plough lal1d
                                         36411 1
                                                                            03-046-    peasant   common shared
174      A. Butin         IIi region      dated           02.08.20 11                                                 13,34      0,4 13     past=e          hay        44 238,00      23,00
                                                                            22 1-487    fann       O'Wl'tership
                                       07.09.20 11
                                         36511 1
      D. lbra.gim..ov,                                                      03-046-    peasant      private
175                       IIi region      dated           02.08.20 11                                                 150,00     2,978      past=e          hay       3 18 982,00     23,00
      K. Tora.vbayeva                                                       226-007     fann       property
                                       08.09.20 11
                                         36611 1
       D. lbra.gim..ov,                                                     03-046-    peasant      private
176                       IIi region      dated           02.08.20 11                                                 300,00     1,578      past=e          hay        169 024,00     23,00
       Ye. KuJcavyi                                                         226-012     fann       property
                                       08.09.20 11
       D. lbra.gim..ov,
                                         37 1111
             IlL                                                            03-046-    peasant      private
177                       IIi region      dated           02.08.20 11                                                 50,00      0,859      past=e          hay        92 0 10,00     23,00
      S haklun:ukha m                                                       226-029     fann       property
                                       08.09.20 11
           betov
                                         ..._ ....._, 1
                                         367()1
                                                                        03-046-    peasant         p riv-a te
178     Ye . Aiuarov      Ili region      dated        02 .08.20 11                                               300,00             1,385         pasture       hoy        148 352,00      23,00
                                                                        226-015      fann          property
                                       08 .09 .20 11




                                                                                                                                      -
                                         368()1
                                                                        03-046-    peasant         p riv-a te
179     T. Ab~            Ili region      dated        02 .08 .20 11                                              50,00              0,801         pasture       hoy        85 798,00       23,00
                                                                        226-017      fann          property
                                       08 .09 .20 11           ~                                                              1-'1

180
              D.
       Bekmurzayev
                          Ili region
                                         369()1
                                          dated
                                       08 .09 .20 11
                                                              I
                                                       02 .08.~         ~T~
                                                                       ,~2 !~
                                                                             T
                                                                                   "::tt
                                                                                  )-   t ~~~ (iloo I O;'i.l                                        pasture       hoy        7 1 338,00      23,00

                                         373()1
                                                                        03-046-    peasant         p riv-a te
18 1   Ye.O~              Ili region      dated        02 .08.20 11                                               50,00              0,6 18        pasture       hoy        66 196,00       23,00
                                                                        269-007      fann          property
                                       09 .09 .20 11
        Beisseba,yev
       Agro-Business
                                         3 16()1
           and                                                          03-046-    subsidiazy   pe mt.altent we
182                       Ili region      dated        02 .08 .20 11                                              30 1,30            2,030         pasture       hoy        17 1 274,00     23,00
        Management                                                      194-004    fanning          of land
                                       02 .09 .20 11
        Colledge in
          Talgar
                                         333()1
       Zh.e.misti Zhe.r                                                 03-046-   conunercial      p riv-a te                                      inlga.ted
183                       Ili region      dated        02 .08 .20 11                                               9,05              0,009                   wa.te.nnelon   18 046,00       426,00
            LLP                                                         220-188    fanning         property                                      plough land
                                       03 .09 .20 11
                                         346()1
                                                                        03-046-   conunercial      p riv-a te
18 4   INFERNA LID        Ili region      dated        02 .08.20 11                                               77,00              0,750         pasture       hoy        80 334,00       23,00
                                                                        220-357    fanning         property
                                       05 .09 .20 11
                                         3 17() 1
                                                                        03-046-   conunercial      p riv-a te
185    Bayanlro1 LLP      Ili region      dated        02 .08 .20 11                                              23,00              0,787         pasture       hoy        8 4 298,00      23,00
                                                                        220-012    fanning         property
                                       0 1.09 .20 11
                                          3 18fl l
                                                                        03-046-   conunercial      p riv-a te                                      inlga.ted
186     C4 Ci t;y LLP     Ili region      dated        02 .08.20 11                                                7, 16             0, 119                    pumpkin      62 332,00       111,00
                                                                        220-028    fanning         property                                      plough land
                                       0 1.09 .20 11
                                          343() 1
                                                                        03-046-   conunercial      p riv-a te
187     C4 Ci t;y LLP     Ili region      dated        02 .08 .20 11                                              50,00              0,0 15        pasture       hoy         I 606,00       23,00
                                                                        220-315    fanning         property
                                       05 .09 .20 11
                                         .374fll
                          Kapshagai                                     03-055-    peasant         p riv-a te
188    D. Udot                            dated        03 .08.20 11                                                  30,00                1,38     pasture       hoy            92 076,00      14,00
                            town                                        008-033      fann          property
                                       09 .09 .20 11
       Utility S-ervice
       Kopshagai
       town Su
       Kub,..,.
                          Kapshagai
                                         376()1
                                                                        03-055-
                                                                                    sewage
                                                                                                pe mt.altent we
                                                                                                                                                    =n-
189    fOunded on the
                            town
                                          dated        03 .08 .20 11
                                                                        020-305
                                                                                  treatment
                                                                                                    of land
                                                                                                                    220,07                2,78     inlga.ted      no            no            977,50
       right of                        09 .09 .20 11                               facilities                                                    plough land
       e conomic
       auihori'Q' of
       Kopshagai
       'L'
                                                                                  production
       CENKO              Kapshagai
                                         375() 1
                                                                        03-055-      and           p riv-a te
                                                                                                                                                    =n-
190    CRO UP LLP           town
                                          dated        03 .08.20 11
                                                                        008-343    u.hst rial      property
                                                                                                                      17,98              0,24      inlga.ted      no            no            977,50
                                       09 .09 .20 11                                                                                             plough land
                                                                                     base
       Zh.                               381()1                                                                                                   iniga.ted
                           T~ar                                         03-051-   conunercial
19 1   Zharmenov, M        region
                                          dated        02 .08 .20 11    249-032    fanning
                                                                                                te mpor.uy we         45,00             0,336 plough land.      whea.t          53 316,00      34,00
       Aklunetov                       10 .09 .20 11                                                                                              p asture
                                         382()1
                           T~ar                                         03-051-    peasant                                                        pasture~
192    A. Us hkeyev                       dated        02 .08.20 11                             te mpor.uy we         50,00             0, 158                   hoy            17 874,00      24,00
                           region                                       249-075      fann                                                         b.yf"'ld
                                       10 .08 .20 11
                                                 -- ·--·- ---
                                                                                 ~ @:w?ft"
                                                  383/11

                                                                                              ~ a~~ ~·Viti 8 28,1~ 2 Goo
                                                                                                                                                                       non-
          A. Ayarnbekov
                               Talgar                                                                                                                                               my
  193                                               dat ed   02.08 .€ 1                                                                                              irrigated                 24 794,00     13,00
                               region
                                                10 .09.2011              ,24f09  ~                                                                                 plough land

  194
          T.                   Talgar
                                                  386/11
                                                    dat ed
                                                                          03-o 5 1".
                                                             02.08 .20 11 249-1 85
                                                                                                peasant
                                                                                                               tempor.uy use
                                                                                                                                 •              0, 16     0,162      pasture        my         10 042,00     13,00
          Y ermakhanova        region                                                            fann
                                                12 .09.20 11
          PITalgar
          Region Branch
          Public W a ter
          Ente~rise
          "Talgarirrigats
          iya.. of
                                                  389/11                                         wat e r
          Proviru:e Publli:    Talgar                                             03-0 51-                penn.ane.nt use
                                                                                                                                                          0, 496                    my
  195                                               dat ed  02.08 .20 11                        facilit y                                    371,78                  pasture                   51 472,00     27,00
          Utiity               region                                             319-038                    of land
                                                12 .09.2011                                   m.aitenance
          C ompany of
          W a ter
          Ente~rise
          .. Ahnatyirrigat
          s iya" of Ahnaty
           Oblast Akbnat
           ~,.~,.-.,..;,...,                       "177111
                               Talgar                                             U~-U ~l-    c o nunercla.l penn.ute.nt use
                                                                                                                                                                                    my
  196     Altyn Deirm.en                            dat ed      0 2 .08 .20 11                                                             I 022, 40      0,086      pasture                    6 216,00     15,00
                               region                                             239-00 1      fanning           of land
          OJSC                                  09 .09.20 11
          Co~ oration                             385/11                                                                                                           inigat ed
                               Talgar                                             03-0 51-    c o nunercia.l
  197     Altyn Deirm.en                            dat ed      02.08 .20 11                                   t empor.uy use                8 0 2,33     2,8 17 plough ~.aM,      wheat      402 83 0,00    30,00
                               region                                             249-1 26      fanning
          O J SC                                10 .09.2011                                                                                                         pasture
                                                  3 78111                                                                                                            non-
                               Talgar                                             03-0 51-      peasant
                                                                                                                                                                                    my
  198     BekonLLP                                  dat ed      0 2 .08 .20 11                                 tempor.uy use                 558, 19      0,373    irrigated                   26 964,00     15,00
                               region                                             239-00 5       fann
                                                09 .09.20 11                                                                                                     plough land
                                                  3 79/11
                               Talgar                                             03-0 51-      peasant
                                                                                                                                                                                    my
  199     Birlik-1 LLP                              dat ed      02.08 .20 11                                   t em por.uy use               585,8 0      3, 229     pasture                  4 11400,00     27,00
                               region                                             240 -00 1      fann
                                                09 .09.2011
          Kazakhstan-
                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                  380/11                                                                                                          inigated
          Gern\.an J o int     Talgar                                             03-0 51-      peasant
                                                                                                                                           I 244, 18      3,057 plough ~.aM,
  200                                               dat ed   02.08 .20 11                                      te m por.uy use                                                     maize    1 111600,00      77,00
          Venture A S IA       region                                             249-020        fann
                                                09 .09.20 11                                                                                                         p-asture,
          C ROUP LLP
          Kazaluhtan-
          Swiss Joint                             384/11
                                                                                 ~ ~n                 .   -                                                            non-

                                                                                                               : :·v~
                               Talgar                                                                                                                                               my
  201     Venture
          Mon:tazh:nik
                               region
                                                    dat ed
                                                10 .09.2011
                                                            0 2 .08 .€
                                                                                 ,24f~j. ~ ~"""I                                     a        8 1,7i 2 1459          irrigated
                                                                                                                                                                   plough land
                                                                                                                                                                                               28 462,00     13,00

          LLP
          l:maty                                  387/11                                                                                                           p-asture, non
                               Talgar                                             03-0 51-    c o nunercia.l
                                                                                                                                                                                    my
  202     Lives tock                                dat ed   02.08 .20 11                                      tem por.uy use              I 132, 20      4,8 12     irrigated                613 086,00     27,00
                               region                                             319-0 14      fanning
          Breeding LLP                          12 .09.20 11                                                                                                       plough land
                                                  388/11
          Altyn-Aidar          Talgar                                             03-0 51-    c o nunercia.l                                                         irrigated
  203
          LLP                  region
                                                    dat ed   02.08 .20 11
                                                                                  319-017       fanning
                                                                                                               t em por.uy use                96, 40      1,285
                                                                                                                                                                   plough land
                                                                                                                                                                                    my        242 642,00     40,00
                                                12 .09.2011
~tal i>r Otrl1.efZZI kV O S G efMHPP- Roloe t frem - r U..tallati8n opet Ne. :JOI                                                        Z:J l ii,:J:J                                     zz l:J6 !146,00
                                                                                                                                                         l:J6,"
~tal i>r beth OKI'Lo
                                                                                                                                     . SI U~OZ ~il                                         59 7'J7 880,00
:__ ~_pendix 3 1o LAP.                                I                           I                             I
                                                      I                           I                             I


'                             L and for sites of 220 kV OSG ami Rob ot SS acquired from tbe sta te
'
                                                                                      Resolution on 1aml plot                                    Contracts fur plot 1aml           Paid amount fur
        Project          Name ofsubstati.oJt. sites       Almaty Oblast Region                                          State acts                                                                                     Note
                                                                                            alienatio•                                        lease, and purchase and s ale      agricultural losses




                                                                                                                                           C ontract for land plot
                                                                                                                                         purch ase and sale No. 235
                                                                                      No 559dated 2409 20 10
                                                                                                                 State act for n ght to dated 30 11 .2010, forOSG of          KZT 0 .103841 million was Tille documents and right to
                                                                                      (to p nvate property for
                          220 kV OSG of Moinak              I . Raimb ek region                                KEGOC's pnvate prop erty  Moinak HPP - 2 56 h a for            p aid as p er re solution No. land use re gistered at state



                                                                                      Cfi)"~ 3t=r~:r~.
                                                                                                                                               KZT 4 I~ million as p er                    352.              authoritie s ofKazakhstan
                                                                                                                                              1 3solu o No 559 d ated
                                                                                                                                                      2  2010




   Moinak Electricity
:__ TraliSmission
       Project




                                                                                                                                                  C ontract for land plot
                                                                                                                                               purch ase and sale No. 1140
                                                                                      No. 898 dat ed 2 1.10.20 10                                                              Payment fo r agricultural
                                                                                                                    State act for right to         dated 30.11.2010 for                                    Tille documents and right to
                             220 kll Robot SS                                         (t o private property for                                                              losses is n ot requlred; land
                                                           2.Kap shagai town                                      KEGOC's private prop erty     exten sion of Robot SS -                                    land use re gistered at state
                               (extension)                                              0.4050 h a for OSG of                                                               for Robot SS to b e extended
                                                                                                                     forOSG, O.<ll50 h a       KZT 3.958875 million as p er                                  authorities ofKazakhstan
                                                                                              Rob ot SS)                                                                      is within lands of the city
                                                                                                                                                resolution No. 898 d ated
                                                                                                                                                        21.10.2010




I
