Report No. PID6713
Project Name                     China-Hebei Earthquake (+)
Rehabilitation Project
Region                           East Asia & Pacific
Sector                           Urban
Project ID                       CNPE56491
Borrower                         The People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency              Hebei Province (HP), Zhangjiakou Municipality
and Zhangbei, Shangyi, Wanquan and Kangbao
Counties.
Date PID Prepared                April 15, 1998
Appraisal Date                   February 28, 1998
Board Date                       May 29, 1998
Country and Sector Background
China has recorded some of the most severe recorded earthquakes in
the world. Since 1900, there have been 664 earthquakes with magnitude over 6
on the Richter Scale, of which 107 registered over magnitude 7, or around 30
percent of world earthquakes of that size. The death toll from earthquakes in
China in the twentieth century exceeds 600,000, accounting for over 50 percent
of the world total. Chinese earthquake specialists have predicted that, after
a decade of relative calm, China is entering a period of high seismic activity
that is likely to last for 12 to 15 years.
At 11.50am on 10th January 1998 an earthquake of magnitude 6.2 on
the Richter scale occurred on impoverished rural areas on Bashang plateau in
Zhangjiakou Municipality. The epicenter was at the border of Zhangbei and
Shangyi counties at latitude 41.10o and longitude 114.30o. The earthquake was
followed by a large number of aftershocks, with a total of 481 being recorded
in the week following the earthquake. Fifteen of these measured over 4.0 on
the Richter scale. The earthquake caused extensive damage over an area of
some 2,600 sq. kms (km2) covering Zhangbei, Shangyi and Kangbao counties on
the plateau, and Wanquan county adjacent to the plateau. The affected area
includes 37 townships, 585 administrative villages and 1,824 other villages
with a population of 471,000. Of the above, 15 townships, 281 administrative
villages and 696 other villages, containing a total population of 241,000 were
seriously affected. Within these areas the intensity of the earthquake was
VIII measured on the modified New China Intensity Scale (NCIS). There were 49
recorded deaths and 11,439 injuries. A total of 136,000 rooms collapsed and a
further 264,000 rooms were damaged, leaving a total population of 44,000
homeless.
Zhangjiakou Municipality (ZM) consists of the Bashang plateau in
the north, bordering on Inner Mongolia, and the Baxia plain to the south. The
total area of the municipality is 36,947 km2 , containing a total population
of 4.4 million. There are four counties located on the Bashang plateau -
Zhangbei, Guyuan, Kangbao and Shangyi, with a total area of 12,480 km2. The
altitude of the plateau varies from 1,300 - 1,600 meters above sea level.



Average annual temperature on the plateau is 2.6 OC, and the lowest recorded
temperature is -34.8 OC. The average length of frost free period is 110 days,
with a minimum of 70 days. Water resources are scarce, with most of the
supply coming from wells. The area supports dry land agriculture, with
limited areas of irrigation using ground water. Soil conditions are poor and
the economic base is weak, with per capita incomes of the order of Y 1,000 per
year.
Objectives
The primary objective of this project is to assist in the
restoration of economic and social activities following an earthquake in ZM in
north-west Hebei Province, through the restoration of social and economic
infrastructure and priority production facilities. A second objective is to
strengthen the socio-economic situation in the area through enhancement of
productive activities which would alleviate the extreme poverty.     The
economic and social benefits of rapid recovery in these impoverished counties
would be considerable. The total population, which is homogeneous, to
directly and equally benefit from the project is estimated at about 250,000,
most of whom are poor.
Description
The project would support emergency reconstruction, repair and
rehabilitation programs to be carried out in HP from about April 1998 through
about September 2000. The components and their investment costs, including
engineering and management costs, are in (a) Housing - $12.6 million:
reconstruction and/or repair of about 15-20,000 houses; (b) Health Care - $1.6
million: (i) reconstruction and/or repair of about 26 health care facilities;
and (ii) purchase of equipment; (c) Grain Storage - $2.8 million:
reconstruction of, and/or repairs to, about 25,600m2 of grain storage
facilities; (d) Water Conservancy - $5.4 million: (i) reconstruction of,
and/or repairs to 130 drinking water facilities, including distribution
networks;
(ii) reconstruction of, and/or repairs to water conservancy facilities, e.g.,
730 wells, buildings, canals, bridges, aqueducts, etc.; and (iii) repairs to
the Friendship reservoir; (e) Education - $10.4 million: (i) reconstruction
of about 600 schools; and (ii) purchase of school equipment;
(f) Irrigation - $7.7 million: (i) installation of 4,500 shallow stone
wells, 300 big dug wells and 200 tube wells ; (ii) installation of some 500
small sprinkler irrigation systems; and
(g) Institutional Development - $0.1 million: technical assistance, training
and support to Municipal, County and Township level agencies, particularly for
building standard development, project management and monitoring.
Financing
The estimated cost of the reconstruction project, including
engineering and management costs, is $41.1 million of which IDA finances some
70t through a credit of SDR 21.1 million under standard terms and conditions.
Implementation
The emergency rehabilitation project would be implemented in
accordance with a detailed Operations Implementation Plan prepared by the
-2 -



Municipality. ZMG has already established a Municipal Project Management
Office, headed by the Vice Director of the Zhangjiakou Finance Bureau (ZFB),
while project offices are to be established at the affected counties and
townships level. Sub-project offices would be established in the affected
sectors, e.g. health, education etc. Implementation would be carried out by
line agencies including the county level construction bureaus. Given the
magnitude of the investments required to be made in the affected areas over a
limited time frame, the PMOs at the provincial and municipal levels, the
project and sub-project offices at the county and township levels, may need to
be strengthened, and the personnel skill mix adjusted to reflect the needs of
the project.
Sustainability
The early establishment and maintenance of project and subproject
offices should minimize the risk of delays in implementation. HPG has
identified assured sources of revenue from which the necessary counterpart
funding would be provided. Untimely or ineffective operation and maintenance
arrangements with the local farmers for the cooperative irrigation facilities
may endanger the sustainability of the facilities, but familiarity with these
provisions in the area will mitigate this risk.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Group Assistance
The program approach, pioneered in the North China Earthquake
Project and adopted successfully in the Inner Mongolia and Yunnan Earthquake
Reconstruction Program (due to close in December 1998), is proposed for this
project. In the North China Earthquake Project, the relevant lessons learned
as highlighted in the Bank Group's Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
Performance Audit Report dated June 27, 1996, included: (a) the importance of
strong local leadership and local project management offices; (b) attention to
the Borrower's views; (c) minimization of bottlenecks in the project's cash
flow to accelerate urgent reconstruction activities; and (d) the benefits of
using "fast track" project processing in the Bank Group.
Poverty Category
The project provides for targeted interventions in an officially
designated poor area in China. The dry-land irrigation schemes aim at
strengthening the socioeconomic conditions through increase in agricultural
productivity.
Environmental Aspects
The emergency project is primarily focused on rehabilitating,
restoring and preserving the environment and facilities damaged by the
earthquake. The project has been rated at "B" and is expected to contribute
to environmental improvement. No resettlement is involved in the project.
Staff, employees and households of condemned structures have been rehoused in
temporary structures located in open spaces in the vicinity of the damaged
structures and would move back in after completion of construction or repair.
Program Objective Category:      Emergency Assistance Credit
- 3 -



Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



