Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-7233-CHA
TECHNICAL ANNEX
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
HEBEI EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 4, 1998
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1, 1998)
Currency             =             Renminbi
Currency Unit        =             Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00               =             $0.12
$1.00                              Y 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS OF MEASURES
1 meter (m)          =            39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)     =            0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)       =            2.47 acres
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
HP    Hebei Province
HPG  Hebei Provincial Government
MOF  Ministry of Finance
PMO  Project Management Office
ZM    Zhangjiakou Municipality
ZMG  Zhangjiakou Municipal Government
Vice President:   jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director: Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager:  Keshav Varma, EASUR
| A ask Manager:    Wiebe Moes, Municipal Engineer, EASUR



CHINA
HEBEI EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Annex 1: Background and Damage Assessment ..................................................1
Annex 2: Project Description and Organization ..................................................6
Annex 3: Housing and Public Building Practices, Model Designs and
Construction Aspects ..................................................11
Annex 4: Water C'onservancy Facilities .................................................                          25
Annex 5: Regeneration of Agricultural Productivity .................................................                35



- 1 -                     ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: BACKGROUND AND DAMAGE ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    At 11.50 am on January 10, 1998 an earthquake of magnitude 6.2 on the Richter
scale occurred on impoverished rural areas on Bashang plateau in Zhangjiakou
Municipality. The epicenter was at the border of Zhangbei and Shangyi counties at
latitude 41.100 andL longitude 114.300. The earthquake was followed by a large number of
aftershocks, with a total of 481 being recorded in the week following the earthquake.
Fifteen of these measured over 4.0 on the Richter scale.
2.    Zhangjiakou Municipality consists of the Bashang plateau in the north, bordering
on Inner Mongolia, and the Baxia plain to the south. The total area of the municipality is
36,873 square kilometers (km2), containing a total population of 4.4 million. There are
four counties located on the Bashang plateau-Zhangbei, Guyuan, Kangbao and Shangyi,
with a total area of 12,480 km2. The altitude of the plateau varies from 1,300 to 1,600
meters (m) above sea level. The average annual temperature on the plateau is 2.6°C, and
the lowest recorded temperature is -34.8°C. The average length of the frost-free period is
110 days, with a minimum of 70 days. Water resources are scarce, with most of the
supply coming from wells. The area supports dryland agriculture, with limited areas of
irrigation using groundwater. Soil conditions are poor and the economic base is weak,
with per capita incomes of the order of Y 1,000 per year.
Damage Assessment
3.    There were 49 recorded deaths and 11,439 injuries. The earthquake caused
extensive damage over an area of some 2,600 km2 covering Zhangbei, Shangyi and
Kangbao counties on the plateau, and Wanquan county adjacent to the plateau. The
affected area includes 37 townships, 585 administrative villages and 1,824 other villages
with a population of 471,000. Of the above, 15 townships, 281 administrative villages
and 696 other villages, containing a total population of 241,000, were seriously affected.
Within these areas, the intensity of the earthquake was VIII measured on the modified
New China Intensity Scale (NCIS). A total of 136,000 rooms collapsed and a further
264,000 rooms were damaged, leaving a total population of 44,000 homeless.
4.    As was the case in the North China earthquake of October 1989 (North China
Earthquake Project-Credit 2091-CHA), which struck parts of Shaanxi and Hebei
Provinces, village housing suffered the most damage in the earthquake. Housing and
other village infrastructure in the affected areas are mainly local timber post and mud-
brick and stone construction that is vulnerable to earthquake shocks. Basic building
construction techniques have not always been incorporated into traditional building
practices. Bonding of corners, securing of gable walls, provision of lintels over openings,



-2-                       ANNEX 1
securing of roof structures, and the construction of the roof itself all too frequently have
structural weaknesses built into them.
5.    The earthquake has damaged the water supply to some 60,000 villagers in the
Zhangbei, Shangyi and Kangbao counties. Some 130 wells need rehabilitation (20
percent repair, 80 percent replacement), and pipelines will be extended to some 90
percent of the households with the remaining villagers relying on standpost supply. The
damage to water conservancy works in Zhangbei and Wanquan counties include
irrigation canals, office buildings and dormitories. Also, some 730 motor wells for
irrigation need repair/ reconstruction, mainly in Zhangbei and Shangyi counties. The
Friendship Reservoir, constructed in 1958, is the largest water storage facility in northern
Hebei Province. The dam, an earthfill structure of 40 m high and 290 m long, shows a
total of 27 cracks on the dam crest and slope failures occurred on both the upstream and
downstream dam faces. Additionally, the outlet tunnel and water intake tower were
damaged as well as part of the spillway channel and office buildings/dormitories.
6.    The total direct economic loss is estimated at Y 2.4 billion, of which rural housing
losses are estimated at Y 1.7 billion. The loss of economic and social facilities in the
severely affected townships and villages has wrecked the fragile local economy.
Although there is some local industry and mining, the local economy is primarily
agriculture-dependent. The villagers' barns, stables and grain storage facilities were
destroyed or damaged, resulting in stored winter food and animal feed being lost or
exposed to the elements. Schools, health centers, wells, irrigation channels, power lines,
and other infrastructure were also destroyed or damaged.
7.    China has recorded some of the most severe recorded earthquakes in the world.
Since 1900, there have been 664 earthquakes with magnitude over 6 on the Richter Scale
(RS), of which 107 registered over magnitude 7, or around 30 percent of world
earthquakes of that size. The most severe recent earthquake occurred in 1976, registering
7.8 on the Richter Scale, killing over 400,000 people, and substantially destroying the
city of Tangshan in Hebei Province, about five hours' journey by rail east of Beijing. The
death toll from earthquakes in China in the twentieth century exceeds 600,000,
accounting for over 50 percent of the world total. Chinese earthquake specialists have
predicted that, after a decade of relative calm, China is entering a period of high seismic
activity that is likely to last for 12 to 15 years.
Relief Operations
8.    Given that it was mid-winter and extremely cold in the earthquake area, the
central and local governments' immediate concerns were to provide adequate temporary
shelter, fuel, warm clothing and food supplies to the affected people. Governments,
supported by the People's Liberation Army (PLA), responded immediately by putting up
thermal tents, constructing temporary shelter, and treating, and evacuating where
necessary, the injured. Emergency relief supplies and donations were also received from
elsewhere in China and abroad. The relief effort was coordinated by a Leading Group



-3 -                      ANNEX 1
established at the level of Zhangjiakou Municipality (ZM), supported by the affected
counties' administration. Within one week of the earthquake a preliminary assessment of
the damage was made-a feat, given the widespread area that was affected and the bitter
cold of the plateau. The technical resources of the local governments were supplemented
by a provincial task force drawn from the architectural, engineering and town planning
institutes, and supported by experts from the Ministry of Communications (MOC) and
State Seismological Bureau (SSB).
Damage Mitigation
9.    The Tangshan earthquake resulted in a sweeping review of earthquake design
codes in China and in 1978 a revised antiseismic Building Design Code for Industrial and
Public Buildings was adopted. This code was followed by similar codes for water supply
and drainage works, gas and power/heating plants, hydraulic structures, railways,
highways and bridges. The effect of the new codes was evident in Zhangjiakou and in the
recent Inner Mongolia and Yunnan earthquakes as most of the recently constructed
buildings suffered only light damage or none at all. The Hebei Provincial Government
(HPG) confirmed that (a) all project-financed reconstructed works (except housing)
would be carried out to the latest antiseismic design codes; (b) designs would be to level
VIII on the modified New China Intensity Scale; and (c) in line with current practice, the
implementing agencies would be required to comply with the earthquake-expert team's
recommendations on whether buildings, or parts of buildings, would be demolished for
reconstruction or repaired.
10.   The Zhangjiakou Municipal and county governments will require the adoption
and use of cost-effective earthquake-resistant design and construction methods for
housing and other village infrastructure. Planning and design work will take place
through March, alfter which the ground conditions would be suitable for starting
reconstruction during the six months' construction window (April to September).
11.   China has a standardized procedure for classifying damage caused by earthquakes.
A team of experts is assembled by MOC and sent to investigate and classify the damage.
12.   The expert team categorizes structures as follows, taking into account the
structure's age, the type of structure, its suitability for repair, its depreciated value and
other factors such as its strategic importance (see Figure Al.1).
Level 1     No damage;
Level 2     Light damage-repairable;
Level 3     Medium  damage-repairable depending on age and type of
structure;
Level 4     Severe damage-irreparable, structure to be demolished; and
Level 5     Collapsed structure.



-4-                           ANNEX 1
TABLE A1.1: DAMAGE ASSESSMENT DATA
Item                   Zhangbei  Shangyi Wanquan  Kangbao       Total
Total Population:                         184,389   124,000    16,000   36,786   361,175
- lightly injured                         9,252     1,840        2         -   11,094
- heavily injured                           339        6         -         -      345
- deaths                                     49         -        -         -       49
Housing
- number of rooms destroyed             135,666   32,855     2,475    4,151   175,147
- number of rooms damaged                92,598   91,157    12,411    26,574  222,740
- total damage in million Yuan           1,209.4    619.0     94.2      59.9   1,982.5
Hospitals
- m2ofroomsdamaged                        10,145    5,325    1,855    4,010    21,335
- medical appliance damaged                  66        15        -        15       96
- total damage in million Yuan             41.4      22.2      8.8      12.0     84.3
Education facilities
- ni2 of schools damaged                 131,184   77,822   32,776     2,000  243,782
- furniture damaged                       6,961    15,836    2,207         -   25,004
- books lost                             66,587  212,970    21,624         -  301,181
- total damage in million Yuan             63.5      48.9     15.2       2.4    130.0
Water Conservancy facilities
- m2 office/dormitory damaged             3,924      286         -    1,450    5,660
- no. of wells damaged                      236      506         6      113       861
- meters of irrigation canal damaged     52,485   119,290    8,400    82,000   262,175
- no. of reservoir damaged                    7        4         -        1        12
- total damage inmillion Yuan               9.8      15.5      8.0       5.7     39.0
Grain Depots
- m2 of depot space                      48,389    15,706        -    8,571    72,626
- total damage in million Yuan             26.4       6.3        -       3.0     35.7
Power supply in million Yuan                  9.3      1.7         -        -      11.0
Road infrastructure in million Yuan           7.1      2.4         -        -       9.5
Telecommunications damage in million Yuan     7.8      3.8         -        -      11.6
Animal husbandry in million Yuan             60.9      1.9         -        -      62.8
Agriculture damage in million Yuan              -       1.4        -        -       1.4
Municipal infrastructure damage million Yuan  3.1        -         -        -       3.1
Total Damage
- in million Yuan                  1,438.7    723.1    126.2      83.0   2,370.0
- in % of total                        61        30        5         4      100



- 5 -                              ANNEX 1
FIGURE A 1.1: LOCATION AND EXTENT OF DAMAGE
. "-'19S-<                                    \     t H          = o   "'B
'~ ~   ~    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~                       EARrQ 'I~  DA. .AC !Az;F23  -  , EA
R.& x 9  .  .' M f   o  m                           .        a i      L -    T
.      It                  _        -     ' SAANGBEI
,*RI2,ENT@it!!AA/a1\/DSFIIi 1988  t   5 ,E,



-6-                       ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND ORGANIZATION
Project Scope
1.    The project would support emergency reconstruction, repair and rehabilitation
programs to be carried out in HP from about March 1998 through about December 2000.
The components and their investment costs, including engineering and management
costs, are in
* Housing-$12.6 million: reconstruction and/or repair of about 15-20,000 houses, of
which 50 percent require substantial repairs before reoccupation;
* Health Care-$1.6 million: (a) reconstruction and/or repair of about 26 healthcare
facilities; and (b) purchase of equipment;
*  Grain Storage-$2.8 million: reconstruction of, and/or repairs to, about 25,600m2 of
grain storage facilities;
*  Water Conservancy-$5.4 million: (a) reconstruction of, and/or repairs to, drinking
water facilities; (b) reconstruction of, and/or repairs to, water conservancy facilities,
e.g., wells, buildings, canals, bridges, aqueducts, and the drilling of about 861 new
wells; and (c) repairs to the dam and outlet structures of the Friendship reservoir;
* Education-$10.4 million: (a) reconstruction of some 600 schools; and (b) purchase
of school equipment;
* Irrigation-$7.7 million: (a) installation of some 430 large dug wells and 370 deep
tube wells; and (b) installation of some 800 small (15 ha each) sprinkler irrigation
systems; and
* Institutional Development-$0.1 million: technical assistance, training and support
to Provincial, Municipal, County and Township level agencies, particularly for
building standard development, project management coordination, and monitoring.
Project Organization
2.    The Hebei Provincial Government (HPG) has established a Leading Group
chaired by the Deputy Party Secretary, whose members include directors from the
Planning Commission, the Finance Bureau and the Construction Commission. The Group
gives policy guidance on all matters relating to the earthquake emergency relief and
reconstruction effort, and will coordinate agency investments in the affected areas.
3.    The Provincial Government's existing Provincial Project Management Office
(PMO), which is responsible for all World Bank Group-financed projects in the Province,
would also be responsible for this emergency project. The PMO is chaired by the Vice
Director of the Hebei Provincial Finance Bureau (HFB). The functions of the PMO are
the coordination and monitoring of project preparation and implementation, collection



-7-                       ANNEX2
and analysis of project expenditures, and consolidation of information for the purposes of
reporting progress to HPG, and to the Bank Group. It will perform the same functions for
this project. The PMO also has the responsibility of managing the Special Account of this
IDA credit. The PMO has the responsibility to review the statements of expenditure
(SOEs) submitted by the Zhangjiakou Leading Group Project Office and submit the
withdrawal application to the IDA for replenishment.
4.    The Zhangjiakou Municipal Government (ZMG) has established a Municipal
Leading Group (MLG) chaired by the Vice Mayor. The members of the MLG include
directors or vice directors of Finance, Planning, Construction, Water Conservation,
Health, Education, Earthquake, Grain, and Audit Bureaus. The main functions of the
MLG are to coordinate the different government agencies involved, to approve major
policies related to the earthquake reconstruction activities, and to make sure the
counterpart fund for the project is available and future repayment is on time.
5.    ZMG has established a Municipal Leading Group Project Office (MPO), to be
headed by an vice director of the Zhangjiakou Finance Bureau (ZFB), staff of all
concerned government agencies are the members of the MPO. The project area includes 4
counties, 32 townships and 217 villages. The 4 counties and 32 townships will set up
project offices to monitor the project, and 217 village representatives will manage the
construction. The organization structure chart of this project is indicated in Figure A2. 1.
6.    Under the MPO, there are four divisions, credit management, project
management, materials and procurement, and technical advice. The staff of credit
management division are mainly from the municipal finance division, which will be
responsible for onlending the credit, withdrawal application, use of credit, delivery of
funds, and audit. The project management division is based on the municipal planning
bureau with the main functions of planning, design, and contract approval. Key persons
of materials/procurement and technical advice divisions are from the municipal
construction division, which will look after procurement, construction, quality
supervision and project completion review. The MPO will provide training and has the
authority to review the works in the county and township levels. The MPO has the
authority to release the responsibilities to a county or township if a lower-level office has
the ability and personnel to take over the works, and has the authority to take back the
works to a higher level if an office does not follow the government regulation and the
World Bank Group procurement and disbursement policies.
Project Management
7.    Since the project management involves so many levels, a proper contract
monitoring system has been set up that provides good monitoring of project progress.
Contracts incurred at a lower level should be reviewed and agreed by a higher level. A
system of responsibility and signature authorization has been established at each level
(see Table A2. 1). Disbursement staff will record the dates SOEs are received and
dispatched to trace financial performance. The time for reviewing the contracts and



-8 -                      ANNEX2
preparing the SOE documents should be very short; a proper working time at each level
should be established. The contract monitoring system and the disbursement system
should be set up and be agreed at each level before the disbursement begins.
8.    Quarterly progress reports would be submitted to the Bank Group by HPG, or its
designee, in a format acceptable to HPG and the Bank Group. The project quarterly
reports, together with contract awards, disbursement documents, and Bank Group
supervision missions would form the basis for routine monitoring of physical and
financial progress. The performance of the project will be measured against its objectives
by the MMPO and included in the Quarterly Progress Reports for IDA review.
Performance monitoring indicators have been defined for each project (sub)component.
9.    The provincial, municipal, county and township PMOs, through their well-
established finance bureaus/units, would maintain separate accounts and records for the
project and for all SOE-related expenditures. This arrangement provides clear allocation
of financial authority, responsibility and accountability with well-defined systems and
procedures. The financial documentation would be subject to audit by the Foreign
Investment Audit Bureau of the China National Audit Office (CNAO), established in 1983
under the name of State Audit Administration. The actual auditing work would be
conducted by the Hebei Provincial Audit Department under CNAO's supervision.



-9-                              ANNEX2
FIGURE A2.1: ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE OF ZHANGJIAKOU EARTHQUAKE
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Hebei Earthquake Reconstruction Leading Group
l
Hebei Project Management Office
I
Zhangjiakou Earthquake Reconstruction Leading Group
.______I                             Credit Management Division
Leading Group Project Office                        Project Management Division
____                Materials & Procurement Division
Technical Advice Division
4 '    1                                                  1
Zhangbei County           Shangyi County          Wanquan County           Kangbao County
Project Office           Project Office           Project Office           Project Office
5 Townships              14 Townships             3 Townships_             10 Townships
7 Villages                91 Villages              43 Villages               26 Villages



-10-                                    ANNEX2
TABLE A2.1: RESPONSIBILITIES WITHIN THE FOUR PROJECT MANAGEMENT LEVELS
Item        Municipal Project Office   County Project Offices   Township Project Offices   Village Representatives
(MPO)
Agencies Involved  Members of Finance,    County Leaders, and     Township Leaders and    Village Leader and one
Planning, Construction,   members of Finance,  staff                   staff from municipality
Water Conservation,     Planning, Construction,                        and each county
Health, Education, Earth-  Water Conservation,
quake, Grain, Audit    Health, Education, Earth-
Bureaus                quake, Grain, Audit
Bureaus
Main Tasks        Contact with IDA, credit  Prepare or approve plan,  Check and summary the   Contact with local
onlending, repayment,    policy, design, procure-   needs, prepare and submit people, count and check
review and approve plan,  ment, file management,   plan, policy, design, pro-  the needs and submit,
policy, design, procure-   summary SOE & submit,  curement, summary    construction, supervision
ment, monitory, quality   quality control, supervi-  invoice and submit,
control, arrange training,  sion, arrange counterpart  supervision, report to the
disburse, progress report  funds, report to MPO  county
to IDA & HPMO
Procurement       Review and approve pro-  Arrange or review pro-    Arrange procurement,  Receive materials,
curement in lower level,  curement, prepare civil   evaluate, arrange deliver,  construction
approve first set of pro-   work and materials shop-  assistant contract
curement documents,    ping documents, evalu-
arrange training, monitor  ate, arrange deliver and
procurement in county,   contract
and check procurement in
township, arrange pro-
curement if needed
Disbursement      Spot check procurement   Review procurement and  Submit invoice and
and invoice, summary    summary SOEs and       quotations
SOEs and submit with-    submit
drawal application
Implementation    Approve plan, send staff  Summarize needs and   Summarize needs and     Submit needs and plan,
Plan and Quality   to work site, random   plans, supervision,     plans, onsite supervision   onsite supervision
Control           checking, completion    frequently checking,
review



-11-                       ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: HOUSING AND PUBLIC BUILDING PRACTICES,
MODEL DESIGNS AND CONSTRUCTION ASPECTS
Existing Building Practices
1.    All houses and schools are similar in their essentials. They are single-story, one
room deep and two or more long. Dwelling rooms vary from 12 to 1l5 square meters (mi)
in area. The shape on plan is rectangular, with a south-facing elevation containing large
timber-framed windows (in order to capture solar gain) and an entirely blank north
elevation. Most walls are mud-brick or semicoursed random-rubble stonework, often
without mortar, and there are no foundations. Internal walls are rendered. Some houses
have clay brick leaves externally, untied and unbonded. The roofs are pitched at 30
degrees, with gables. Pine pole rafters (purlins) are nailed to larger poles spanning
between cross-walls and gable walls. Reed woven mats are wired to the purlins, and they
support a layer of mud into which interlocking clay tiles are bedded. The roof timbers
(corbels) are not tied to the walls, but in most cases rest within stepped projecting courses
of masonry. Hospitals and grain stores are larger, more complex and diverse in design.
Building Failures Observed
2.    Separation of Wall Leaves. Commonly, the outer leaf of a wall had peeled away
from the inner leaf and usually collapsed, leaving the inner leaf statnding in most cases.
The two leaves were of different materials with no bonding or ties laterally. The outer
leaf functioned as a separate structural element and had too large a height-to-width ratio
and length-to-height ratio to be stable in earthquake conditions. In some cases, the inner
leaf may have collapsed progressively as a result of the loss of the outer leaf. Lateral
bonding is vitally important to establish the structural integrity of the wall. This will
require the materials of both leaves to have compatible dimensions and similar structural
characteristics. This can be most readily achieved if they are the same material, sound
mortar is used and joints well filled.
3.    Separation of Adjacent Walls. Gable walls, side walls, and internal cross-walls
had often separated at the corners, with one or both leaning or collapsed. One could see in
most cases that there was no bonding, but even where bonded, the force of the earthquake
had sometimes separated the walls. It appeared that rafters were built into corbels at eaves
level, but not actually fixed to the wall and therefore incapable of restraining it.



mid on    -cro5swallt
cLa                                             raf i lcs   2reedt e rst
bedded on mud                            [I          purlns
brfck leaf nottied
to stone ormu.d
_                                           2~~ue
"GCU TAWAY" 
TK,ADITIONAL
CON6~TKUQTIOH                                        *Otto5cL



-13-                       ANNEX3
4.    There was no evidence that movement of the roof had pushed over walls, but
rather that movement of the wall had led the rafters to collapse progressively. It is
important that the long front and rear walls are fully stabilized by the cross-walls and
gable walls, since otherwise their length-to-height ratio will render them unstable.
Probably bonding, though necessary, is not sufficient. The basic aim should be to
establish structural continuity, so that forces are shared by all walls together while the
roof has a similar role to play.
5.    Careful bonding is vital, but also steel mesh or steel bars bent at 90 degrees,
should be inserted every five courses in the horizontal joints, which should be made
deeper for the purpose. Furthermore, the cross-walls should be strong enough to perform
the task of stabilizing the front and rear walls, which requires minimal openings. Lastly,
but most importantly, a structurally continuous ring beam should run around the entire
building at a level between the eaves and the window heads. Typically this is reinforced
concrete or timber. It must be adequate to resist force from any direction, and should be
rigid at the corners. This will bind the walls together and prevent distortion. Turning now
to the roof, the rafters could be bolted to the ring beam, or strapped into the brickwork, or
cross-nailed to a timber wallplate, which should in turn be bolted to the ring beam. This
would certainly establish continuity laterally. But cross-bracing, perhaps by means of
diagonal members between purlins, might be advisable.
6.    Collapse of Piers and Beams on Front Elevation. In a few cases, the front
elevation had collapsed. There are exceptionally big windows to all rooms, but none at all
on the north-facing facades. The greenhouse effect heats up the walls from the inside,
which then radiate during the night. This creates a very soft wall on the south side and a
very hard one on the north. Conventional wisdom says that this extreme structural
asymmetry would cause destructive torsion effects during an earthquake. Surprisingly, we
saw relatively little clear evidence of this, but further study of this puzzling point would
be worthwhile. The narrow piers between windows had sometimes fallen forward and
were not tied effectively to the cross-walls behind them. The beams above, normally
precast concrete, were spanning only one bay. The rafters collapsed progressively,
although in a few cases the purlins had collapsed. Always they were seated on gable and
cross-walls, which usually remained standing. This probably saved a lot of people from
injury or worse.
7.    The piers were too narrow. In the case of the Hebei earthquake, that may not be
the main problem. The root cause of this failure was probably the discontinuity of the
beam. Each beam was resting on half a pier width, which might be as little as 300 mm.
This is inadequate. As the slender piers vibrated laterally, they caused the beams to fall,
but if the beam had been structurally continuous, this would not have occurred.
Furthermore, the piers were not tied to the cross-walls behind them, and so they were free
to move.



-14-                    ANNEX3
FIGURE A3.2: FAILURE MODES
COF OMITTY-              3          not H4h da ZrIsS
fr~r CLAR.ITY.-eas  e-                                i
*& \ Arestrcnv' '-
soble btick >r~~~                  7' t -  4
el~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               lA
\QdeformcriHn'c;
-z                     wg>    \   I  . i t)   wnl!-.d Ytckerw
'acw1ll 5epera0l at
ac-rvw due to weak
bm&di~
NORTH  N ALL L FA I L tAE  MO DOE
\   <      \o              J         Z   lllel
c~~~sbe-
lo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c, (lopss _|\      
PF%c4ROE SS 1\/F \-                         ; R       MATS+H1HD
COLLAPSE 1-5Z,45/                                 OMIATE +)v*,j
S O5MTH a WALL  FA4ILVK  R4O D 



-15 -                     ANNEX3
8.    So far as possible, the piers should be made thicker, or otherwise strengthened, for
example, by vertical reinforcement. The beam should be structurally continuous. The
piers should be firmly tied to the gable, by bonding and reinforcement consisting of steel
mesh or bars.
9.    Foundations. Traditionally foundations were not provided although there was
little evidence of failure arising from this. Nonetheless, it is recommended that stone-strip
foundations (or, still better, reinforced concrete ones) be provided. Frost in Hebei can
reach 2 m deep, but there was no clear evidence of frost heave and, reportedly, it does not
occur. This suggests that the footings need not be especially deep, although this must
always be subject to ground being suitable at the bottom of the trench. A depth of
700 mm may be generally acceptable. Even so, mud brick (or even poor clay brick) could
be damaged by groundwater or frost, and should not be used below the damp-proof
course.
10.   Complex Plan Forms. Complex plan forms-for example, E, L, X or similar
layouts-normally perform badly in earthquakes, as do long, thin rectangles. While the
mission saw little evidence of damage due to the L-shaped plan of some schools and the
hospital, we would still recommend that such forms be avoided.
11.   Proximity of Pit Latrines and Domestic Wells. It was noticed that drinking
water wells are located close to pit latrines. Particularly after an earthquake, this can
cause the water supply to be infiltrated by fecal matter, causing the spread of disease.
Standard Dwelling Designs
12.   The Zhangjiakou authorities had prepared model designs for a two-room house
and a three-room house, including specification notes and outline quantities and costs. On
the basis of the observed building failures and previous studies, the following design
recommendations were agreed upon.
13.   The Two-Room House. The design is fundamentally sound but consideration
should be given to the following points: Walls. It is proposed that all walls should be clay
brickwork, with external walls three bricks wide and internal walls two bricks wide. One
gable is two bricks wide, since a provision is made for a room to be added later.
Recommended as follows:
* A detail of the method of bonding should be prepared, since not all bonds are of equal
strength.
* The habit of building one wall completely before building the next one should be
abandoned. It is easier to achieve good bonding if all walls rise simultaneously, at
least at the corners.
* More information should be given to builders on mortar mixes, and they should be
told to reject all bags of cement affected by moisture. All joints should be properly
filled.



-16-                   ANNEX3
FIGURE A3.3: WALLS
Ypei steeL mesk
(wired toseaieev)
LA-T5 RA L           evefru 5 co rw5e5
-jNDINC-1
/; 37 C~~-T          l4lCT  lAFALLY
CONTINV40l.5 RINC( 3EAm1-
/ith ri5id coners,
Oondrtion 1;  
Not more tc 40
of distctnce betweevi
lateraw vI5ls.        conr&tion Z.
one me'tre &
POsS; b Ie,
I- these two Conitio4xs are nAot Met, tUer\ orisider vertjcaU
ainjorc6Ment  G:   per s
.ANTI-EAKTHq1AAKE M-EA4AAPR-S-WALL5
E5sLJ4C-Ecr  l0   F(ARJ Hf- K  uT M D'y2    Y') D



-17-                      ANNEX3
* Both gables should be three bricks deep, since the slenderness ratio is otherwise too
high
* All corners should be reinforced in the manner described in the previous section,
including junctions with internal walls.
14.   The piers should be wider and the openings narrower. Reversing the position of
front door and adjoining window would add strength to the end pier, which is particularly
narrow. The spandrel brickwork below this window should be restrained at the end next
to the door. Finally, if the piers cannot be adequately thickened, then consideration may
be given to vertical reinforcement, which could be tied to the horizontal reinforcement
previously mentioned.
15.   Ring BeaEn. A ring beam is proposed, with a continuous reinforced concrete
beam on the south elevation and reinforced brickwork elsewhere, but reinforcing bars are
overlapped at corners by 300 mm. The overlap is insufficient and should be a minimum
of 600 mm or more. Also parallel bars should be wired together with stirrups. Otherwise,
the proposal is probably adequate, although a reinforced concrete beam all the way round
would be even better. This would be more costly, of course. Recommended as follows:
* Proper guidance should be given on quality and quantities of constituent components,
as well as thoroughness of mixing and careful curing. If cast in situ, the concrete form
work should be of adequate quality and not distort, and nor should it be prematurely
struck;
* It is important to create continuity between bars. Stirrups should connect bars at
frequent intervals.
16.   Roof. The roof design follows the traditional principles. Improvements are
recommended as follows:
* Purlins and joists should be secured to the walls either by steel straps or by cross-
nailing to a wallplate bolted to the Ring Beam.
* The jointing of timbers should be described in more detail, as bad jointing can
weaken the overall structural integrity. Judging from the site inspection, it is not done
well at the moment.
* Diagonal bracing should perhaps be included to ensure that no distortion can occur.
* It may be advisable to put a timber spreader plate under the purlins where they sit on
the gable or cross-walls, in order to reduce the pressure at that point.
17.   Foundations. The foundations proposed are in coursed stone bedded in mortar to
a depth of 1.3 m and with a width at the base of 700 mm. This does seem adequate, and
some reduction in depth may be acceptable. Recommendations:



-18 -                  ANNEX3
FIGURE A3.4: RoOF
. TREANc4 V LAT7ON OF ROOF
roof tirfbet not&ieA    -
,v cross ricuIfed To   1
-.~ roof tfrMb"A5
o_                              ~    ~~~ 0rnc1 wo(I
CONNECT!KIG ROOF    ~ '
beo'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
spreader 
:> to  tir e b  oce
1,1~ 7 
j-~~       MEAKE3RKOOFc5:
£ C                  CS 11JECT TC AFFOKIDAL17Yj
T--AI f'H' --\



-19-                      ANNEX3
* Particular attention should be paid to the ground quality at the bottom of the trench,
and if an expert inspector believes it to be too soft, then remedial action should be
taken. It is an error to build on bad ground for economy reasons.
* Internal cross-walls should have similar foundations.
18.   The Three-Room House: Additional Points. The design for this house is similar
to that for the two-room house, and the same comments apply. Again, the design is
fundamentally sound but one internal cross-wall contains a window as well as a door. The
masonry is mud brick, and the wall is stabilized by timber columns connecting to the
purlins. Recommendations:
* The internal walls should be double-leafed brickwork, and the window should be
eliminated.
*  The previously mentioned design features should be incorporated here also, which is
to say: wall junctions should be bonded and reinforced, and there should foundations
similar to those elsewhere.
19.   Additional House Designs. Another six house designs were under preparation,
all with three bays and similar in dimensions to the previously mentioned three-room
house. The recommendations made above applied here too, but the following
recommendations can be added:
- The design with the re-entrant corner should be changed so that it is rectangular on
plan, since the proposed form is vulnerable.
3 The design with an open porch has a corner column freestanding. This should be
changed so that the corner of the building is solid masonry.
3 The variety of materials from which walls are composed creates doubt about their
performance and the lack of lateral bonding or ties between leaves should be
questioned.
* The flat roof design has the advantage of lightness, but may be vulnerable to high
winds and to snow load as well as condensation via cold bridges. Checks should be
made. Its appearance is a departure from tradition and some people may find it
aesthetically objectionable.
20.   Most of these designs are relatively expensive, and this arises in part from
needless complexity, which is not offering value for money. Overall, however, they are
sound in earthquake engineering terms.
Review of Designs for Public Building Types
21.   Schools. Three designs (for primary, middle and secondary school classrooms)
were prepared with alternative pitched and flat roofs. Generally they resembled the
dwelling designs, and appeared satisfactory, with the following recommendations:
* As with the dwellings, the piers on the south elevation should be wider and the
windows smaller if possible, in order to reduce the torsion caused by asymmetry. If



-20 -                       ANNEX3
this is not acceptable, due to solar heat requirements, then the piers should be
strengthened, perhaps by vertical reinforcement and buttresses.
* Ring beams are drawn at 240 mm x 120 mm deep. The depth is insufficient and the
design should be checked.
* The front and rear walls are in some cases very long and likely to flex dangerously if
not restrained by internal buttresses and a strong fixing to the roof trusses.
* The roof needs diagonal bracing.
* The flat roof option has the advantage of lightness but will be more vulnerable to
suction in windstorms and to snow loads.
. If a flat roof is used, then it is recommended to build it with a minimal gradient to
allow for rainwater runoff.
22.   Hospitals. Design preparations for the hospitals were less advanced. Only
sketches were prepared for a large and small hospital and for a clinic or ambulatory but
no construction drawings were available. It was noted that complex plan forms, namely
an H and an L shape, are being considered. However, such forms are particularly
vulnerable during earthquakes. Therefore, it is recommended to avoid complex plan
forms, and desegregated into separate rectangular blocks. If this is not feasible, then
movement joints should be provided at the interface of component rectangles.
23.   Grain Stores. The standard grain store is a reinforced concrete frame, with brick
infill panels and a steel-trussed roof. It measures some 60 m by 15 m by 6 m high, and is
a relatively complex structure. The following recommendations have been made:
* The form is long enough to merit at least one movement joint.
. The eaves detail incorporates a large overhang of excessive depth and weight.
Lightweight eaves should be provided instead, since such a heavy feature, eccentric to
the columns, presents a risk.
* The upper ring beam, at eaves level, is not deep enough.
Review of Building Materials
24.   The roofs are too massive to be safe, and in principle they should be lighter. It
would require lightweight insulation as a substitute for mud; and also sawed and stress-
graded timber for purlins and joists. Without the mud, tiles would have to be pegged to
battens, or some type of roof sheeting used. It appeared that this would be prohibitively
expensive.
25.   The need for economy compelled the use of mud brick in places. This is too
brittle a material and far from suitable for use in earthquake areas. The scope for concrete
block as an affordable but superior alternative is being considered. The Zhangjiakou
Light Concrete Enterprise makes concrete blocks utilizing volcanic rock, which is
quarried in the general earthquake area. They use small quasi-mobile plant, and it would
be possible to establish local production at several places in the earthquake zone. The
material test certificate shows that it has adequate structural and thermal qualities, and



-21-                      ANNEX3
reportedly slightly cheaper than mud brick. It will allow sounder building and will also
enhance the livelihood of local people in the earthquake area.
Construction Costs and Review of Possible Economy Measures
26.   Two Room House. The total labor value is Y 2,170 and the total material value is
Y 10,080. The labor element is divided into self-help, valued at two thirds or Y 1,450 and
paid skilled labor, valued at one third or Y 725. The material element is divided into new
material (Y 7,970) and recycled material (Y 2,120). The new material will be paid for, but
the recycled material will be prepared at no charge. The self-help labor will be done at no
charge, but the skilled labor may be either paid cash or by labor onsite or by recycled
material. There are two scenarios: only the new material cost is repaid or the skilled labor
plus materials.
27.   Scope for 'Economy Measures. While the total value of Y 12,253 and the cost
rate of Y 385 per m do appear reasonable and realistic, there are nonetheless fears that in
so poverty-stricken an area, they may not be generally affordable. Consideration was
given to economy measures. Below is scheduled the possible items of saving.
1. Substitute mud brick or concrete block in all walls.  Y 450
2. Reduce foundation depth from 1.3 m to 700 mm.          592
3. Omit ground concrete surface next to foundations.       52
4. Omit ceiling                                           405
5. Omit internal wall plastering                          175
6. Omit concrete skirting.                                 30
7. Omit whitewashing of internal walls.                    36
Total Saving:                                          Y 1,740
28.   The omitted items could be easily completed later at the expense of the
householder. The other items are deemed essential regardless of the earthquake resistance
issue. The use of mud brick walls is feasible, although it is important that the quality of
work is good and the techniques sound. Few houses currently have any foundations and
yet there was little evidence that clearly indicated failure for this reason. Therefore, one
would contemplate some economy on the foundations. There is no scope for economizing
on the ring beam.
29.   Alternative Scenarios. Below is illustrated several options regarding the loan
principal for the two-room house mentioned above. It is suggested that the provincial
government consider whether some such economies would allow the inevitably scarce
resources to secure more widespread good. Obviously, the motive concerns resource
allocation and not architectural or technical questions.
Full design plus skilled labor                         Y 8,690
Full design without skilled labor                        7,970
Reduced design in clay brick plus skilled labor          7,400



-22-                       ANNEX3
Reduced design in clay brick without skilled labor         6,680
Reduced design in mud brick/concrete block plus skilled labor  6,950
Reduced design in mud brick/concrete block without skilled labor  6,230
30.   It is noted that the above figures do not include the cost of the recommended
design improvements above. It is estimated that these costs would be between Y 200 and
Y 400. Such extra expense is justified in the interests of earthquake resistance while the
amenity measures can be feasibly accomplished at a later time.
31.   Public Buildings. In the schools sector, the total program comprises 2,707 rooms
in 127 schools, at a total cost of Y 28.2 million. The cost rate is Y 520 per m2. In the
health sector, there will be 26 projects at a total cost of Y 8.0 million. The cost rate is
2
Y 527 per m . In the grain sector, there will be 18 projects at a total cost of Y 20.6
million. The cost rate is Y 1,270 per m2.
32.   The cost rate for schools and hospitals is reasonable. The far higher cost rate of
the grain store design is due to the more sophisticated construction, as well as much
greater span and height. However, there may be scope for refinement and simplification
of the design, leading to economies.
Other Factors
33.   Geotechnical and Site Conditions. While general geological data are available,
there appears to have been no assessment of localized conditions, or the impact they
would have on construction technique or choice of site. It can be dangerous to build close
to fault lines or on sloping ground, unless it is terraced and stabilized. Similarly, building
on outwash fans or alluvial soil in narrow valleys imposes very important conditions on
the design and should be avoided if possible.
34.   Availability of Construction Materials. The total quantities of materials
required for all the reconstruction was estimated as well as the total production capacity
in the area. For example, the project will require 134 million bricks, and local production
capacity is said to be 1.2 billion. As for tiles, 6.9 million will be needed against a capacity
of 10 million. Cement capacity is 1.5 million tons, and the need here is for 27,000. Only
in the case of timber will imports (Heilongjiang) be needed.
35.   Manpower. The total manpower requirements has been calculated in person-days
based on standard norms, and assumed that the unskilled labor-about two thirds-will
be provided by self-help, while the remainder, that is the skilled element comprising two
thirds, will be provided by labor gangs. It is estimated that 418 teams of 18 workers each
-a total of 7,524 workers for the target time of 150 days-will be required. It was
reported that the construction sector labor force in the city region is over 100,000 persons.
36.   Skill Dissemination  and  Quality  Control. The implementing agencies
responsible for construction management have properly equipped materials testing
laboratory available. They will appoint between one and three Quality Control Inspectors



-23 -                       ANNEX3
to each village, and after a training course, they will perform tests and random inspections
on site. They will be independent in status and report their findings to the Project Office.
37.   The matter of knowledge dissemination is of fundamental importance for the
successful implementation of the project. The local project leadership understands this
and have proposed an extensive training program of a formal type, and also a type of
onsite organization that would facilitate skill transfer between craftsmen and local
farmers engaged in construction. It is suggested that booklets and posters, as well as a
video of a demonstration project and large-scale models, would facilitate understanding
of technical points. The drawings so far produced have two defects in this respect: they
are too technical to be understood by ordinary people and also they lack detail of the
precise mode and sequence of work. In short, they presuppose a level of prior training and
knowledge thalt many do not possess. Perspective drawings at a level of detail should be
prepared, and strip cartoons could be used to explain the sequence of operations. Posters
and booklets should also explain in simple terms the underlying reasons for things, and
not only the things themselves. The funds for assistance by local consultants has been
included in the credit to help the local authorities to produce the materials as well as to
assist in the dissemination effort.
38.   Community Participation. More attention needs to be given to community
involvement in the design and implementation of the reconstruction effort, particularly
the housing reconstruction. A lack of grassroots commitment will doom the project to
failure, and it is vital that the professionals and government officers take the feelings of
the local villagers fully into account, particularly as regards the financial and labor
arrangements. Project staff should meet the villagers soon in order to explain fully all
bottomline matters and check out their views so as to incorporate them into the project
before it starts. Technical assistance by local consultants for this purpose has been
incorporated in the project design.
Technical Assistance Component
39.   The general ability and expertise of technicians and administrators working on the
project is relatively high, but they will benefit from advice prior to and during project
execution in several fields. Their basic knowledge, leaming capacity, organizing ability
and energy is such, that a major program will not be needed. The following areas for
assistance have been identified:
*  Geotechnical Assessment. The aim is to transmit knowledge and understanding of
the significance of microzoning and the need to link this to choice of both sites and
techniques of construction;
.  Building Design and Quality Control. The aim  is to reinforce and deepen
knowledge of the relevant research, design principles, and detailed design and
construction techniques, and also to check current design and execution, and advise in
a concrete, practical and detailed way on feasible improvement. Additionally, advice
on all aspects of Quality Control should be given;



-24 -                      ANNEX3
Dissemination Techniques and Community Participation. The aim is to advise on
the best techniques for communicating relevant knowledge to (and obtaining and
reacting to feedback from) construction workers, quality control inspectors , the local
community and others. Assistance with the preparation of communication material
should be provided; and
*  Project Organization and Management. The aim is to examine and suggest feasible
improvements to technical organization both overall and in specific component parts,
and likewise to suggest improvements to the management of construction,
procurement, supply chain operation, liaison, financial planning and control and other
relevant matters, including the transfer of general principles as well as project-specific
issues.
40.   The manpower input has been estimated at 10 person-months of local consultants
and will occur in three stages: at the inception, early stages of execution, and the
conclusion of the first construction season. The first report should be submitted in April
and the final report in October. The following expertise has been identified:
*  Geotechnics         one person, one month       1 person-month
*  Building           three persons, seven weeks   5 person-months
3  Community           one person, one month       1 person-month
*  Management         two persons, seven weeks     2 person-months



-25 -                     ANNEX4
ANNEX 4: WATER CONSERVANCY FACILITIES
Drinking Water Reinstatement
1.    This component of the project is designed to reinstate potable water supplies to
villages in three counties (Zhangbei, Shangyi, Kangbao). The proposed works include
130 wells repaired or replaced (approximately 20 percent repaired, 80 percent replaced);
pumps; pipelines; storage tanks; house connections; and standpipes.
2.    The total population to be served by this component of the project is 66,000, made
up of 20,000 in Zhangbei, 30,000 in Shangyi and 16,000 in Kangbao. Of this total, about
90 percent will have household connections and the remainder will rely on standpipe
supplies. The proportion of those having household connections will be considerably
higher than existed prior to the earthquake.
3.    The proposed expenditure on this component is as follows (in Y):
County                Loan funds       Domestic Funds         Total
Zhangbei               1,772,000           954,000           2,726,000
Shangyi                3,061,000          1,648,000         4,709,000
Kangbao                1,556,000           838,000          2,394,000
Total            6,389,000         3,440,000          9,829,000
4.    The details of the works to be undertaken are as follows:
* Zhangbei County
Description                                     Location          Cost (Y)
2 no. 190m deep wells, pump & pipework  Da Jing He district        584,000
1 no. 80m deep well & pipework         Han Tou Ying district       170,000
3 no. 300m deep wells & pipework       Da He district              465,000
2 no. 220m deep wells & pipework       Hai Liu Tu district         444,000
2 no. 210m deep wells & pipework       Huang Shi Ya district       496,000
3 no. 250m deep wells & pipework        Tai Lu Gou district        567,000
Total                    2,726,000



-26 -                    ANNEX4
The breakdown of the Zhangbei County expenditure by items is as follows:
Well drilling     600,000
Well lining       600,000
Pump stations     225,000
Electrical works  300,000
Pipelines        1,001,000
Total         Y 2,726,000
Shangyi County
Location                 Description                     Total Cost (Y)
Keng Leng district       Drilled well, pump and pipelines       379,000
Hou Shi Zhuang Jing district  Drilled well, pump and pipelines  320,000
Tao Li Xiang district    Drilled well, pump and pipelines       340,000
Da Yeng Pan district     Drilled well, pump and pipelines       219,000
Da Qing Guo town         Drilled well, pump and pipelines       136,000
Da Su Ji district        Drilled well, pump and pipelines       320,000
Hong Tu Liang town       Drilled well, pump and pipelines       360,000
Jia Shi He district      Drilled well, pump and pipelines        94,000
Xi Suan Gou town         Drilled well, pump and pipelines       320,000
Xia Ma Juan district     Drilled well, pump and pipelines       150,000
Qi Jia district          Drilled well, pump and pipelines       130,000
Ha La Guo district       Drilled well, pump and pipelines       200,000
Nan Hao Jian town        Drilled well, pump and pipelines       130,000
Ba Dao Gou town          Drilled well, pump and pipelines       760,000
Shangyi city             Laying cast iron pipeline              851,000
Total                                                    4,709,000
The breakdown of the Shangyi County expenditure by items is as follows:
Well drilling    3,069,000
Well lining       300,000
Pump stations     420,000
Electrical works  320,000
Pipelines         600,000
Total         Y 4,709,000



-27 -                        ANNEX4
Kangbao County
Location            Description        Total Cost (Y)       Beneficiaries
Tu Cheng Zi    FPipelines & House Connections   494,000 999 households in 5 villages
Er Hao Bo      Pipelines & House Connections    600,000 1104 households in 6 villages
Ha Bi Ga       Pipelines & House Connections    400,000 392 households in 4 villages
Deng You Fang  Pipelines & House Connections    900,000 1405 households in 9 villages
Total                                   2,394,000 3,900 households in 24 villages
The breakdown of the Kangbao County expenditure by items is as follows:
Well drilling      1,636,000
Well lining          192,000
Pump stations        146,000
Electrical works     120,000
Pipelines            300,000
Total           Y 2,394,000
5.    The wells are either drilled or dug by hand, depending on the local
hydrogeological conditions and other factors. Drilled wells are typically 400-500 mm in
diameter and 200 m or more in depth. They are lined with a concrete sleeve. Hand-dug
wells are typically 1.2 m diameter at the surface, and up to 3 or 4 m diameter at their
base. The depth of the hand-dug wells is usually 15-20 m, and they are normally lined
with stone.
6.    Each well is equipped with a pump, mostly driven by an electric motor although a
few in remote areas are driven by a diesel engine. The pump and wellhead are enclosed in
a small brick building. Storage is provided by a concrete tank. The pipeline carrying the
water from the well to the village is buried, and the materials used depend on the size of
the pipeline and whether it is under pressure or under gravity flow. Small-diameter
pipelines (50-100 mm) are made of plastic (probably PVC), medium-diameter pipelines
(150-250 mm) are earthenware, and large diameter pipelines (> 300 mm) are made of
concrete. There is normally further storage provided within the village and small-
diameter plastic pipe is used to connect the supply to each household. No treatment is to
be provided as the quality of the well water is generally very good, and in any event the
population in this region follows the traditional practice of boiling water before drinking.
Water Conservancy Facilities
7.    This component of the project is designed to repair or rebuild water conservancy
facilities in two counties (Zhangbei, Wanquan). The works to be repaired or rebuilt are
principally canals and offices/dormitories owned by the water conservancy authority, and
include expenditures for the repair of collapsed canal lining, repairs to inlet and outlet



-28 -                         ANNEX4
structures, repairs to gates, and repairs to bridges crossing the canals. Details of the works
to be undertaken are as follows:
ZHANGBEI COUNTY
Location       Description                Total Cost (Y)
Hai Liu Tu     10 channels                     300,000
2 bridges                       50,000
1 water drop                    15,000
5,100 meters of canal lining   863,500
Da Ying Tai    11 channels                      92,300
3 aqueducts                    150,000
3 bridges                       60,000
Total                                 1,530,800
WANQUAN COUNTY
Location       Description                Total Cost (Y)
Yang He River  I sediment discharge gate       28,600
No. 1 Canal    2 channels                     137,500
5 aqueducts                   737,500
1 dredged discharge dike      402,400
2 bridges                      101,000
8,997 meters of canal lining  3,462,000
Yang He River  I intake structure              80,000
No. 2 Canal    6 sediment discharge gates     220,000
1 dredged discharge dike      100,000
Yang He River  1 intake structure             140,000
No. 3 Canal    51 sediment discharge gates    689,200
1 dredged discharge dike      100,000
Total                                6,198,200
Youyi (Friendship) Reservoir Rehabilitation
8.    The epicenter of the earthquake was located 40 km from the reservoir. As a result
of the earthquake a total of 27 cracks with a maximum width of 5 cm appeared on the



-29 -                     ANNEX4
dam crest and slope failures occurred on both the upstream and downstream dam faces.
Additionally, the outlet tunnel and the water intake tower were damaged, a rockslide
occurred on one side of the spillway channel and a large number of buildings belonging
to the water conservancy authority were damaged.
9.    The Friendship Reservoir is the largest water storage facility in northern Hebei
province and is a vital element in the water supply system of this region. The reservoir is
on the Dongyanghe River and sits at the border of Hebei Province and Inner Mongolia in
Shangyi County. The dam forming this reservoir was constructed in 1958 and underwent
some modifications in 1970. The reservoir is a multipurpose facility used for water
supply (mainly irrigation), flood control and hydroelectricity. The original storage
capacity was 116 million mi3; however, much of this has been lost due to siltation and it is
3
understood the capacity is now only 60 million m3.
10.   The dam is an earthfill structure, 40 m high, approximately 290 m long. The crest
is at an elevation of RL1200 m, is 4.0 m wide and has a 1.2 m high wave wall along the
upstream edge. Both the upstream and downstream faces of the dam have a rock rip-rap
protective layer. The slopes of the dam faces vary from 1:2.5 to 1:3.5. The downstream
toe has a rock filter. The dam is designed to operate normally in a flood of up to 1 00-year
return period, and is rated as safe in a flood event of up to 1,000-year return period. This
falls short of the national standard safety rating for dams in China of a minimum 2,000-
year return period, and this is one reason why upgrading works are being proposed (see
below).
11.   The intake structure is located to the right of the dam wall, between the dam and
the spillway. It is an inclined structure about 25 m deep, containing an inclined steel gate
operated by a cable winch. The outlet tunnel is 2.2 m diameter, reducing downstream to
1.8 m diameter. Maximum discharge capacity is 39 cubic meters per second (m3/sec).
12.   The spillvvay is cut through rock on the right side of the dam. The spillway is at
RL 1193 m, 7 m below the dam crest. It is a chute spillway about 200 m long with energy
dissipaters at the downstream end. Maximum discharge capacity is 1,030 m3/sec.
13.   The power station is located below the dam and is equipped with three 400 kW
turbine generators. Power is delivered to Shangyi County via a 35 kV transmission line.
Irrigation water is delivered to three counties (Wanquan, Huaian and Shangyi) and the
reservoir currently supports 200,000 mu of irrigated land.
14.   The work proposed to be carried out on the reservoir and dam falls under two
categories, repairs to the damage caused by the earthquake, and a general upgrading and
refurbishment to make it function more safely and efficiently. The cracks in the dam are
to be investigated further. It is proposed that cracks of less than 3 m depth will be filled
with compacted soil. Cracks deeper than 3 m will be filled with cement grout. The
proposed works are summarized below:



- 30 -                          ANNEX4
Earthquake Damage Repairs                            Upgrading
Repair cracks in dam                         Increase safety rating to 2,000-year return period
Repair slips on dam faces                    Construct a new vertical intake tower*
Repair or replace the wave wall.             Increase reservoir capacity
Repair the intake structure                  Reduce seepage
Repair slips at the side of the spillway     Repair pore pressure measuring devices*
Repair or replace damaged offices/dormitories  * These are also related to earthquake damage
15.    During a site visit on March 6, cracks and slope failures were observed. On
questioning the local staff it was apparent that the extent of seepage through the dam had
increased following the earthquake. The color of the seepage water had not changed
however, indicating that there was not a noticeable increase in transport of fine material
from the body of the dam. At the time of the site visit the reservoir water level was at
RL1 190.8 m, approximately 9 m below the dam crest. During the flood season (summer)
the water level could be expected to rise several meters above this level. It was apparent
from the site visit that the dam was potentially dangerous and was in need of urgent
remedial works.
16.    Cost estimates have been made of cost of the proposed works. The extent of
repairs needed to remedy the earthquake damage is still under investigation and because
of the nature of the work it is unlikely that this can be accurately costed at this point in
time. Estimates are as follows:
Earthquake Damage Repairs                              Upgrading
Item             Cost estimate (Y)             Item           Cost estimate (Y)
Reconstruct intake tower        1,495,000        Civil works on dam          3,700,000
Repair cracks in dam            5,017,000        Civil works on spillway    10,400,000
Repair slips on dam faces       1,502,000        Radial gates on spillway     160,000
Reconstruct wave wall             20,000         Intake equipment             360,000
Repair spillway slips           2,000,000        Temporary works             2,100,000
Repair pore pressure tubes       300,000         Design and reports           590,000
Building repairs/replacements    800,000         Project management           700,000
Temporary embankment             238,000         Other                       1,100,000
Steel gate                       120,000         Physical contingencies     2,800,000
Roadworks                         56,000         Price contingencies          810,000
Temporary accommodation          549,000
Miscellaneous                    371,000
Contingencies                    179,000
Design & survey                 1,025,000
Project management               372,000
Total                  14,044,000                Total              22,720,000



-31-                      ANNEX4
17.   The darnage to the dam has been investigated by the Hebei Investigation and
Design Institute of Water Conservancy and Hydropower of the Ministry of Water
resources and the plans prepared to date for repairing the dam are based on these findings.
There is clearly some urgency in completing the repairs to the dam before the next flood
season commences around June/July and the following issues are to be considered. The
exact extent of repairs will not be known until after all investigations are complete, and
even then there is a possibility that the need for further repairs may be discovered after
the repair work commences.



1 245        + -|--     46.0 .     -  -       3zf               ^,     97          {'        41.25        4  -1_2-4*4- -b
ii~~~~~~~~~~~t
J-0~ ~ ~
4.                                                                              f. 25                     a
_Y1200~ ~~~~~~~~~~~
4j4 4  4j_I -                            -'_   _   -_                  °                                       O
t t , 2 t            ~ ~~~~~3  A  t<,           /s      5\        it t
_____       ____           _____        a     r     o_ __ 
1- , 55                  -        ---_-I      _
.   960-   i     1960i,.- -o7                                       4<-6               0 
_?i  J96O~~6Jlj   - xsCoF O°76     ,,3,-,,z              _ __ __ 6IjiA)/26U-/SI 4.~9) 1 z51               ',co . 4f]
4   /96ol.46Aaon-~ 2__,9"-r)j2Tu   11/VA   - _9)4 .         9    ,9i2~.4)j .l~I t  U4,65za /oA3 aS u  tno ng 'z.
5   ,90-o3f.Oj '9n   IY/6nli9J5.' ii tl  s//oo4  --/V   1761.? Ij  -t0 're  '0A adf "7                     tj:@a3 4
,                ______.~~1~ _ _ _                ___. _- ___                         I_______



- 33 -                       ANNEX4
LOCATIONS OF CRACKS IN DAM AND FRONT/BACK SLOPE COLLAPSES
_ ~ ~   . _  _   ' 1 
\~    ~    ~ ~~~~~ ~~~ --   --J<
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o          'N 
~*4
i ~ ~   ~ ~ ' ;-vt                            e\                fi 
,  ' =-        -:'   's'Sme \1                                 SoZ1'
j_t  .8.1.    11                      l    I    : A/ v
l~~~~~~~~ Ls7-F                             I .%       
zn/-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
WtPj~~~~_____                   .              I-7-------            L\4
< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I , ----



-34 -                 ANNEX4
DRAWING OF RECONSTRUCTION OF OUTLET TUNNEL AND INLET TOWER
Zs~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                                w>. .. 
W   :               'I                     "I            §'Oi   E
j~~~~~~          I-,                  1cj!s S?@,'j  f  ~
- -   -------- -
45 -.
,ni..1 IA
'D
-~~~~~~~~~~



- 35 -                    ANNEX5
ANNEX 5: REGENERATION OF AGRICULTURAL
PRODUCTIVITY
Background
1.    Location. The three counties affected by the earthquake are Zhangbei, Shangyi
and Kangbao. The three counties are located at the southern edge of the Mongolia plateau
with the elevation from 1,200 to 1,500 m. The three counties share the border with Inner
Mongolia in the north and Zhangjiakou City in the south and southeast. It is about
250 km from Beijing to the area. The total area of the three counties is 10,170 km2, of
2                  ~~~~~~~~~~~2
which 1,017 km2 is urban area and 9,153 km  is rural area. The total farmland is
320,000 ha (4.8 million mu).
2.    Climate. With an inland monsoon climate and average annual precipitation of
389.7 mm, drought occurs 9 years out of 10 in this area. The frost-free period is only 90
to 110 days. The natural conditions are unfavorable for agricultural production.
3.    Demographics. There are 47 townships and 836 villages in the three counties.
The total population of the three counties is 849,000, of which 76,000 is urban population
and 773,000 is rural population.
4.    Socioeconomics. The urban economy is based on a processing industry of
agricultural products, winery, sugar mill and leather industry, as well as small business.
The total farmland of the three counties is 4.8 million mu, of which 4.3 million mu is
rainfed area and 0.5 million mu is irrigated area. Due to unfavorable natural conditions,
agriculture productivity is very low in this area. The average holding of farmland is
6.2 mu per capita or some 25 mu per household. The average annual income in urban
areas in Y 2,000 per capita while in the rural areas this is only Y 1,200 per capita. The
three counties are on the national poverty list.
5.    Damage by Earthquake. In the three counties, 336 villages with 470,000 persons
are affected by the earthquake. About 861 tube wells and 983 small stone wells were
damaged by the earthquake, which affected the water supply to some 75,000 people and
the irrigation to some 380,000 mu of farmland.
Dryland Agriculture
6.    Present Agriculture. The present crop pattern and yields are listed in Table A5. 1.



- 36 -                      ANNEX5
TABLE A5.1: PRESENT CROP PATTERN AND YIELD
Item       Wheat   Bean   Potato   Oil crop   Sugar beet  Vegetable  Others
Area('OOOmu)      2,120     723     530       774        120        310    190
Yield(kg/mu)        50       55    1000        50       2000       1500      60
Total (Tons)    106,000  39,765 530,000    38,700    240,000    465,000  11,400
7.    Markets. Most of the grain grown in the area is consumed by the farmers
themselves. About half of the vegetable and bean crop is sold to Beijing and Tianjin. The
prices of the local crops is listed in Table A5.2.
TABLE A5.2: PRICES OF CROPS
Crops          Wheat       Bean        Potato      Oil crop    Vegetable
Price (Yuan/kg)        1.6         2.2         0.5         6.0          0.4
8.    Crops. The proposed crop pattern and water requirement are listed in Table A5.3.
TABLE AS.3: CROP PATTERN AND WATER REQUIREMENTS
Crop           Wheat       Bean        Potato    Vegetable     Total
Area ('000 mu)         61.25       12.25       24.5        24.5        122.5
Proportion (%)          50          10          20          20          100
Annual crop water       180         180         150         200
requirement (m3/mu)
9.    Salt and Water Balance. Groundwater is the major source for irrigation in the
area. The extent of pumping of groundwater for the scheme will not raise the groundwater
level. Also, the existing irrigation experience indicates no soil salination problems.
Therefore, soil salination is not expected in the new irrigation areas.
Water Resources
10.   The results of water resources analysis in Zhangbei, Shangyi and Kangbao
counties are listed in Table A5.4.



-37-                             ANNEX5
TABLE A5.4: WATER RESOURCES IN ZHANGBEI, SHANGYI AND KANGBAO COUNTIES
Surface    Overlapped  Total water
County     Area         Rainfall        Groundwater    water        water      resources
(kin2)   (mm)  (million m')  (million m3)  (million m3) (million m3) (million in3)
Zhangbei    4,185   395.2       1,653.9     177.1          77.4        46.4        208.1
Shangyi      2,649   404.1      1,070.5      74.3          87.4        26.6        135.1
Kangbao      3,336   369.9      1,234.0      92.4          35.7         15.1       113.0
Total    10,170              3,958.4      343.8         200.5        88.1       456.2
Source: Groundwater analysis for each county in Hebei Province, by Comprehensive Water Resources
Management Office, October 1991.
11.    Groundwater is the major water resource in the three counties. In order to
maintain sustainable development of the groundwater resources, the exploitable
groundwater resources has been determined carefully. Table A5.5 lists the results of
water resources analysis for the plain areas in Zhangbei, Shangyi and Kangbao.
TABLE A5.5: GROUNDWATER RESOURCES ANALYSIS IN THE THREE COUNTIES
County                              Unit     Zhangbei    Shangyi    Kangbao        Total
Plain Area                          km2       1,922.00     596.70    1,094.30    3,613.00
Rainfall                            mm          395.20     404.10      369.90
mnillion m3   759.57      241.13     404.78    1,405.48
Rainfall infiltration            million m3      99.58      28.61       51.60      179.79
Rainfall infiltration /Rainfall      %           13.11       11.86      12.75       12.79
Lateral inflow from hill area    million m3      16.17       2.16        3.73       22.05
Canal seepage infiltration       million m3       8.04       2.83                   10.87
Total feed to Groundwater        million m3     123.79      33.60       55.33      212.71
Exploitable groundwater resources    million m3  86.65      23.52       38.73      148.90
Source: Groundwater analysis for each county in Hebei Province, by Comprehensive Water Resources
Management Office, October 1991.
12.    The sustainable exploitable groundwater resource is the result of the total inflow
to the groundwater times a factor of 0.7. The total exploitable groundwater resources in
the three counties is calculated at some 150 million m3 per year. The existing surface
water resources projects can supply 90 million m3 per year. Therefore, the total
sustainable water supply quantity is 240 million m3 per year in Zhangbei, Shangyi and
Kangbao Counties. The present water application statues are listed in Table A5.6.



- 38 -                        ANNEX5
TABLE A5.6: THE PRESENT WATER APPLICATION STATUES (million m 3)
Surface  Ground  Agricultural use  Industrial use    Domestic use
County   Total  water   water  Quantity   %       Quantity   %     Quantity   %
Zhangbei  28.39   8.00    20.39    25.64    90.31    2.35    8.28      0.40    1.41
Shangyi   24.30   19.77    4.53    19.12    78.68    3.11    12.80     2.07    8.52
Kangbao   14.37   0.66    13.71    13.45    93.60    0.79    5.50      0.13    0.90
Total   67.06  28.43   38.63    58.21    86.80     6.25    9.32     2.60    3.88
13.   The present water application is about 70 million m3 per year, accounting for less
than 30 percent of the total sustainable water supply quantity. Therefore, the remaining
potential water supply quantity is over 170 million mi3. The present surface water
application volume is 28.4 million m3 per year, accounting for 31 percent of the existing
surface water supply capacity, and the present groundwater application volume is 38.4
million m3, accounting for 26 percent of exploitable groundwater resources. The
remaining exploitable groundwater resources is 110 million m3n
Outline Irrigation Project
14.   Location. The irrigation scheme will benefit 29 townships and 228 villages in the
three counties. The extent of present irrigation and proposed irrigation areas in Zhangbei,
Shangyi and Kangbao counties is listed in Tables A5.7, A5.8 and A5.9. The new
irrigation areas were selected through a consultation process with the villages and
townships.
15.   Scope. The scheme includes the development of 50 deep tube wells, 150 shallow
tube wells, 300 large dug wells with associated sprinkler and drainage systems, as well as
road infrastructure. In addition, the project will provide some 4,500 small stone wells to
the farmers. The farm road system is in need of upgrading while small-scale drainage
work should be constructed. All the new irrigation areas have access to 1O kV power
supply.



- 39 -                                   ANNEX5
TABLE A5.7: LOCATION OF PRESENT IRRIGATION AREA AND PROPOSED IRRIGATION AREA
IN ZHANGBEI COUNTY
Existing wells        Prop.             Proposed wells           Sprinkler
No. oF   Exist.          Deep  Shallow  Large  irrig.        Deep  Shallow  Large  Small irrigation
Township    villages irrig. area  Sub-  tube   tube    dug    area   Sub-  tube   tube    dug   stone    pipe
(mu)   total   well   well   well  (mu)  total  well   well   well   well  ('000 m)
Zhangbeizheng        22   16,300    201      38      36    127  5,400    22        3      10      9    200       17.6
Tailugou             22     1,100     21      0       0     21  6,700    27        3       6     18    250      21.6
Youlougou            31    6,400    104       9      27     68  5,800    24        0       7     17    200      19.2
Gonghui              20    6,100      80      4       7     69  9,600    40        3      12     25    326      32.0
Mantouying           21   15,100    155       1      56     98  5,500    22        3       7     12    219      17.6
Erquanjing           28    8,500    114       3       9    102  5,500    19        2       7     10    335      15.2
Danjinhe             14      400      13      0       0      13  9,000    40       3       7     30    200      32.0
Dahe                 20    5,500      26      1       0     25  8,800    39        3       6     30    200      31.2
Hailiutu             20     1,000     38      1       0     37  8,200    35        4      10     21      25     28.0
Liangmianjing        23   11,300    130       7      58     65  3,200      9       2       6      1    285       7.2
Huangshiya           18    4,000      39      1       2     38  6,800    27        4      13      10    280     21.6
Ertai                29   19,000    304    46       214     42       0     0       0       0      0       0        0
Haojiaying           17    2,400      51      3      37      11      0     0       0       0      0       0        0
Baimiaotan           15    1,200      29      2      16      11      0     0       0       0      0       0        0
Xiaoertai            21    2,200      59      1      14     44       0     0       0       0      0       0        0
Dahulun              22    11,300    154      0     115     38       0     0       0       0      0       0        0
Zhanhai              13       500     19      0       0      19      0      0      0       0       0      0        0
Sanhao               10      700    162       5     110     47       0      0      0       0      0       0        0
Total            366  113,000  1,699   122       701    875 74,500   304       30      91    183  2,745    243.2
TABLE A5.8: LOCATION OF PRESENT IRRIGATION AREA AND PROPOSED IRRIGATION AREA
IN SHANGYI COUNTY
Existing wells        Prop.             Proposed wells            Sprinkler
No. of   Exist.          Deep Shallow  Large  irrig.         Deep  Shallow  Large  Small irrigation
Township    villages irrig. area  Sub-  tube   tube    dug    area   Sub-  tube   tube    dug   stone    pipe
(mu)   total   well   well   well  (mu)  total  well   well   well   well  ('000 m)
Nanhaodian           20    3,400      75    11       44     20  8,000    36        1       5     30    150      28.8
Daqinggou            14    3,200    106    27        79      0  5,700    25        3      12     10    150      20.0
Qijia                 8    6,500      89      9      80      0    700      2       0       2      0      58       1.6
Dayingpan            15    4,400      50    29       11     10  6,600    23        3      10     10    400       18.4
Dabanji              13    5,400      56    31       19      6    400       1      1       0      0      30      0.8
Halagou              10    1,400      19      3      10      6  5,500    20        3       9      8    300       16.0
Houshizhuang         13      700      22      4      10      8    900      3       0       0      3      70      2.4
Badaogou             14    2,900      75      0      75      0  1,600       8      4       4      0       0      6.4
Kangleng             11    1,700      35      1      28      6  1,300       5      0       0      5      60      4.0
Taolizhuang          10      500      10      0      10      0  2,100      10      0       0     10      20      8.0
Hongtuliang          16    1,500      38      0       6     32    100       0      0       0      0      20        0
Xiaosuangou          17    1,800      44      0       8     36       0     0       0       0      0       2        0
Jiashihe             13    1,300      29      0      19     10    400       2      0       0      2       0        0
Xiamaquan             7      400      14      0      14      0  1,200       6      0       0      6       0        0
Total            181   34,800    662   115       413    134 34,500   141       15      42      84   1260    106.4



-40 -                                   ANNEX5
TABLE A5.9: LOCATION OF PRESENT IRRIGATION AREA AND PROPOSED IRRIGATION AREA
IN KANGBAO COUNTY
Existing wells        Prop.            Proposed wells            Sprinkler
No. of   Exist.         Deep Shallow  Large  irrig.         Deep  Shallow  Large  Small irrigation
Township    villages irrig. area  Sub-  tube   tube    dug   area   Sub-  tube   tube    dug   stone    pipe
(mu)   total  well   well   well  (mu)  total  well   well   well   well  ('000 m)
Kangbaozheng         35    5,900     92      0      92              0     0      0       0       0      0        0
Yanyoufang           22    7,000    147      0     147              0     0      0        0      0      0        0
Zhangji              22    6,200     78      0      78              0     0      0        0      0      0        0
Habiga               18    1,600     25      0      25          3,200    13      0        4      9    123      10.4
Tuchengzi            21    3,200     32      0      32          3,400    14      0        4     10    124      11.2
Dengyoufang          17    5,900     64      0      64          3,300    13      2       4       7    125      10.4
Erhaopuzi           26   16,200    170       1     169          3,600    15      3        5      7    123      12.0
Lijiadi              21      14.6   173      0     173              0     0      0        0      0      0        0
Lujiaying            15    3,000      7      0       7              0     0      0        0      0      0        0
Zhongyi              14    6,100     86      0      86              0     0      0        0      0      0        0
Chuchangdi           17    7,000    105      0     105              0     0      0        0      0      0        0
Mandetang            22    1,600     16      0      16              0     0      0        0      0      0        0
Zhaoyanghe           22    9,600    187      1     186              0     0      0        0      0      0        0
Tunkeng              24    4,400     73      1      72              0     0      0        0      0      0        0
Danqinghe            23    6,400     97      0      97              0     0      0        0      0      0        0
Total            319   98,700  1,352      3   1,349         13,500    55       5      17     33    495      44.0
Cost Analysis
16.      The total cost for the new  irrigation project is Y  64.7 million (US$7.7 million).
Details of costs by component are presented in Table A5. 10.
TABLE A5.10: COST SUMMARY
Zhangbei         Shangyi        Kangbao              Total
Total Costs           Y million                                                                           64.72
Deep tube well        Number                                 30              15                5              50
Unit cost (Y'000)                 132.80          132.80          132.80
Subtotal (Y million)                3.98            1.99             0.66            6.64
Shallow tube well   Number                                   91              42               17             150
Unit cost (Y'000)                  81.90           81.90           81.90
Subtotal (Y million)                7.45            3.44             1.39           12.29
Large dug well        Number                                183              84              33             300
Unit cost (Y'000)                  21.00           21.00           21.00
Subtotal (Y million)                3.84             1.76            0.69            6.30
Small stone well      Number                              2745             1260             495            4500
Unit cost(Y'000)                    3.00            3.00             3.00
Subtotal (Y million)                8.24            3.78             1.49           13.50



-41-                            ANNEX5
Zhangbei     Shangyi    Kangbao          Total
Sprinkler system    Set                        304          141          55          500
Unit cost(Y'000)           33.96        33.96        33.96
Subtotal (Y million)       10.32         4.79         1.87        16.98
Road             Area ('000 mu)              74.53        34.50        13.48       122.50
Unit cost(Y/mu)               20           20          20
Subtotal (Y million)         1.49        0.69         0.27         2.45
Drainage         Area ('000 mu)              74.53        34.50        13.48       122.50
Unit cost (Y/mu)              10           10          10
Subtotal (Y million)        0.75         0.35         0.13         1.23
Consultation     Y million                    1.08         0.50         0.20         1.78
Supervision      Y million                    1.08         0.50         0.20         1.78
Administration    Y million                    1.08        0.50         0.20         1.78
17.   Well Construction. The total cost for developing the wells is estimated at Y 38.8
million. Costs details are given in Tables A5.11 and A5.12.
TABLE A5.11: THE UNIT COST FOR DEVELOPING NEW WELLS (Y'000)
Survey &                  Pumping  Power   Well
Category       design   Drilling  Casing  system   system  housing  Labor   Total
Tube well  >70 m      5.00     40.80    41.00   15.00    25.0    4.0       2.0  132.80
<70 m     2.90      24.00    24.00   6.00     20.0    3.5      1.5   81.90
Large dug well        0.58      1.00     1.52   2.52      0       2.0      1.0    8.62
Small stone well                0.80     1.01   0.65      0.45             0.09   3.00



-42 -                           ANNEX5
TABLE A5.12: TOTAL COST FOR DEVELOPING NEW WELLS (Y'000)
County                            Type              Quantity     Unit cost       Total
Zhangbei                Tube well >70 m                 30           132.80      3,984.00
Tube well <70 m                91            81.90      7,452.90
Large dug well                183            21.10      3,861.30
Small stone well            2,745             3.00      8,235.00
Shangyi                 Tube well >70 m                 15          132.80       1,992.00
Tube well <70 m                42            81.90      3,439.80
Large dug well                 84            21.10      1,772.40
Small stone well            1,260             3.00      3,780.00
Kangbao                 Tube well >70 m                  5           132.80       664.00
Tube well <70 m                17            81.90      1,392.30
Large dug well                 33            21.10       696.30
Small stone well              495             3.00      1,485.00
Total                   Tube well >70 m                 50           132.80      6,640.00
Tube well <70 m               150            81.90     12,285.00
Large dug well                300            21.10      6,330.00
Small stone well            4,500             3.00     13,500.00
Total Cost                                                              38,755.00
18.    Sprinkler System. It is proposed to install a sprinkler irrigation system for each
of the 500 tube wells and large dug wells. The total cost of the sprinkler systems is
estimated at Y 17.0 million, based on a unit cost for one set sprinkler system of Y 34,000.
Cost details are presented in Table A5.13.
19.    Other Costs. The unit cost for the farm road is Y 20 per mu; the total farm road
cost for 122,500 mu of new irrigation area is Y 2.45 million. The unit cost for drainage
work is Y 10 per mu with a total drainage cost of Y 1.2 million. The consultation fee will
be Y 1.78 million, i.e., 3 percent of the total construction cost of Y 59.4 million. The
supervision fee and administration fee will each be Y 1.8 million, i.e., 3 percent of the
total construction cost.



- 43 -                      ANNEX5
TABLE A5.13: THE COST OF ONE SET SPRINKLER SYSTEM
Item                         Unit      Quantity      Price (Y'000)   Total (Y'000)
Pipe                                                                   26.40
4" Aluminum pipe          m          400              40            16.00
3" Aluminum pipe          m          400              26            10.40
Fittings                                                                6.160
Flange                                  1            150             0.150
Soft pipe                 m            3              26            0.078
4" PE pipe                m           24              30             0.720
Support                               24              23            0.552
Valve ()76                            22              76             1.672
Plug '1)76                            24              17             0.408
Plug (1D100                            2              26             0.052
Sprinkler                             24              82             1.968
Pressure gauge                          1            200             0.200
Valve (1D100                            1            360             0.360
Others                                                                  1.400
Financing Arrangement
20.   The total cost of the irrigation scheme is estimated at Y 64.7 million, of which 70
percent will be financed by the IDA credit. The balance will be raised from project
counterpart funds (Y 15.1 million) and Y 4.3 million will be raised by farmers, mainly
through labor contribution (average 5 days per capita). The sources of the project
counterpart funds are listed in Table A5.14. IDA funds will be applied to: (a) civil works
for well drilling by specialized firms, and (b) materials and equipment for wells and
sprinkler systems. The remainder will be funded by local financing.
TABLE A5.14: THE SOURCE OF LOCAL FUNDS (Y million)
Item                               1994          1995         1996          1997
Small irrigation project funds       1.4          1.3          1.2           1.3
Poverty relief funds                 3.7          5.0           5.2          6.9
Agriculture development fund         7.4          6.0           6.3          4.5
Total                        12.6          12.4         12.7         12.6



-44-                       ANNEX5
Implementation Arrangements
21.   The proposed irrigation project will be implemented in a three-year period: the
first year 20 percent, the second year 50 percent, the third year 30 percent. Tube wells
will be constructed by specialized well-drilling teams, of which there are 17 specialized
firms in the Zhangjiakou area. The construction of large dug wells will be organized by
the townships through labor contributions by the farmers under skilled supervision. The
construction of small stone wells will be organized by villages and constructed by
farmers.
22.   The Project Management Office (PMO) for the irrigation scheme will be
established under Zhangjiakou Earthquake Reconstruction Leading Group and the three
counties. The responsibility of the PMO is to supervise the implementation of the scheme
as well as quality control. The design will be carried out by the Zhangjiakou Design
Office of Water Resources Engineering under the guidance of the Hebei Design Institute
of Water Resources Engineering. The PMO will technically be supported by the Bureau
of Water Resources of Zhangjiakou and the Bureau of Water Resources at the county
level.
Operation and Maintenance
23.   Water Management. The water resources engineering station has been
established at the township level. The station will supervise the operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation. A special team for the O&M of tube wells, large
dug wells and irrigation has also existed at each village. Under the leadership of village
committee, the team will operate and maintain the wells and sprinkler irrigation system,
will record data and will collect the water fee. The irrigation fee has been estimated at
Y 90/mu (total O&M cost of scheme divided by 120,000 mu).
24.   O&M Costs. The costs of O&M include labor, power, repair and depreciation.
The total O&M cost is Y 10.9 million and the details are as follows: (a) labor costs: the
annual cost for O&M staff is Y 2,000 per person. With one person managing a 100 mu
sprinkler irrigation area, to develop a 100,000 mu sprinkler irrigation area 1,000 staff are
required. Therefore, the total labor cost for O&M is Y 2.0 million; (b) electricity costs:
each tube well and large dug well can irrigate a 200 mu area; each small stone well can
irrigate 5 mu. To irrigate the total area, the annual power consumption of each deep tube
well, shallow tube well, large dug well and small stone well are 9,000, 8,400, 4,200 and
2,100 kWh, respectively. The unit cost of power is Y 0.45/kWh. Therefore, the annual
power cost is Y 5.6 million to operate 50 deep tube wells, 150 shallow tube wells, 300
large dug wells and 4,500 small stone wells; (c) repair cost: the annual repair cost is
Y 0.6 million, i.e., 1 percent of the construction cost; and (d) depreciation: the annual
depreciation cost is Y 2.7 million, i.e., 4.5 percent of the total construction cost.



-45 -                      ANNEX5
Financial Analysis
25.   Revenues. The average annual gross incremental revenue is Y 379.0/mu with a
crop pattern of 50 percent wheat, 20 percent potato, 10 percent bean and 20 percent
vegetable. The details are listed in Table A5.15.
TABLE A5.15: INCREMENTAL REVENUES FROM IRRIGATION (Yuan/mu)
Crops      Proportion (%)    Rainfed        Irrigated    Gross increment
Wheat                50              27.6          235.4          207.8
Potato               20             345.4          844.5          499.1
Bean                 10              58.6          363.9          305.3
Vegetable            20             356.4         1,080.5         724.1
Total         100                                           379.0
26.   The total gross incremental revenue from the 122,500 mu irrigated area is Y 46.43
million per year. The marginal value of water is Y 2.13/m3. The crop budgets are listed in
Tables 1 to 8 in the attachment to this Annex.
27.   Expenditures. The total investment for the development of new irrigation scheme
is Y 64.7 million and the annual O&M cost for the 120,000 mu irrigation area is
estimated at Y 10.9 million. The depreciation and O&M costs will be entirely recovered
from the farmers through a water charge of Y 0.5/m3.
28.   Rate of Return. The cash flow of the irrigation project is listed in Table A5.16.
With the prevailing interest rate at 8 percent, the repayment period is calculated at a little
over two years. If 15 percent of the net revenue (Y 290/mu) from the irrigation area is
used to service the IDA credit, it will take about eight years.



-46-                         ANNEX5
TABLE A5.16: CASH FLOW AND IRR ANALYSIS
Year       Investment     0 & M cost      Incremental Revenue    Net Revenue
1          16.18            0.00                0.00             -16.18
2          24.27            2.71                                 -26.98
3          24.27            6.78                7.43             -23.62
4                          10.85               20.89              10.04
5                          10.85               37.14              26.29
6                          10.85               37.14              26.29
7                          10.85               37.14              26.29
8                          10.85               37.14              26.29
9                          10.85               37.14              26.29
10                          10.85              37.14              26.29
11                          10.85              37.14              26.29
12                          10.85              37.14              26.29
13                          10.85              37.14              26.29
14                          10.85              37.14              26.29
15                          10.85              37.14              26.29
16                          10.85              37.14              26.29
17                          10.85              37.14              26.29
18                          10.85              37.14              26.29
19                          10.85              37.14              26.29
20                          10.85               37.14              26.29
21                          10.85               37.14              26.29
22                          10.85               37.14              26.29
23                          10.85               37.14              26.29
24                          10.85               37.14              26.29
25                          10.85               37.14              26.29
Total        64.72          248.19              808.35             495.44
..,:-.::,   -.. : :.iCost, +5%2%
Benefits -30%.                  ~~~~12%o  



- 47 -                        ANNEX5
ATTACHMENT: TABLES FOR THE CROp BUDGET
TABLE 1: WHEAT WITHOUT IRRIGATION
Item                          Unit              Quantity  Price (Y/kg)        Total
1. Output
Yield                        kg/mu                   50           1.6           80
2. Input                                                                       52.4
Seed                         kg/mu                   10             2           20
Fertilizer                   kg/mu                    4           0.7           2.8
Pesticide                    kg/mu                 0.05            90           4.5
Land preparation            Yuan/mu                                             20
Tax                         Yuan/mu                                             5.1
Labor                    person-day/mu                5
3. Net revenue              Yuan/mu                                            27.6
4. Return to labor      Yuan/person-day                                        5.52
TABLE 2: WHEAT WITH IRRIGATION
Item                          Unit              Quantity  Price (Y/kg)        Total
1. Output
Yield                        kg/mu                  200           1.6          320
2. Input                                                                      173.2
Seed                         kg/mu                   20             2           40
Fertilizer                   kg/mu                   15           0.7          10.5
Pesticide                    kg/mu                   0.1           90            9
Land preparation            Yuan/mu                                             20
Irrigation fee              Yuan/mu                                            88.6
Tax                                                                             5.1
Labor                    person-day/mu                8
3. Gross revenue            Yuan/mu                                           235.4
4. Net revenue              Yuan/mu                                           146.8
5. Return to labor      Yuan/person-day                                       18.35



- 48 -                       ANNEX 5
TABLE 3: POTATO WITHOUT IRRIGATION
Item                         Unit              Quantity  Price (Y/kg)       Total
1. Output
Yield                       kg/mu                1,000           0.5          500
2. Input                                                                    154.6
Seed                        kg/mu                  100          0.5           50
Manure                      kg/mu                1,500          0.05           75
Pesticide                   kg/mu                 0.05           90           4.5
Land preparation           Yuan/mu                                             20
Tax                        Yuan/mu                                            5.1
Labor                    person-day/mu               8
3. Net revenue             Yuan/mu                                          345.4
4. Return to labor      Yuan/person-day                                     43.18
TABLE 4: POTATO WITH IRRIGATION
Item                         Unit              Quantity  Price (Y/kg)       Total
1. Output
Yield                       kg/mu                2,000           0.5        1,000
2. Input                                                                    244.1
Seed                        kg/mu                  100           0.5           50
Manure                      kg/mu                1,500          0.05           75
Pesticide                   kg/mu                 0.06           90           5.4
Land preparation           Yuan/mu                                             20
Tax                        Yuan/mu                                            5.1
Irrigation fee             Yuan/mu                                           88.6
Labor                    person-day/mu              10
3. Gross revenue           Yuan/mu                                          844.5
4. Net revenue             Yuan/mu                                          755.9
5. Return to labor      Yuan/person-day                                     75.59



-49 -                       ANNEX5
TABLE 5: BEAN WITHOUT IRRIGATION
Item                         Unit             Quantity  Price (Y/kg)       Total
1. Output
Yield                       kg/mu                  55           2.2          121
2. Input                                                                    62.4
Seed                        kg/mu                  15            2           30
Fertilizer                  kg/mu                   4           0.7          2.8
Pesticide                   kg/mu                 0.05          90           4.5
Land preparation           Yuan/mu                                            20
Tax                        Yuan/mu                                           5.1
Labor                   person-day/mu               6
3. Net revenue             Yuan/mu                                          58.6
4. Return to labor     Yuan/person-day                                      9.77
TABLE 6: BEAN WITH IRRIGATION
Item                         Unit             Quantity  Price (Y/kg)       Total
1. Output
Yield                       kg/mu                 200           2.2          440
2. Input                                                                   164.7
Seed                        kg/mu                  20            2            40
Fertilizer                  kg/mu                   8           0.7          5.6
Pesticide                   kg/mu                 0.06          90           5.4
Land preparation           Yuan/mu                                            20
Tax                        Yuan/mu                                           5.1
Irrigation fee             Yuan/mu                                          88.6
Labor                   person-day/mu               8
3. Gross revenue           Yuan/mu                                         363.9
4. Net revenue             Yuan/mu                                         275.3
5. Return to labor     Yuan/person-day                                      34.4



-50-                         ANNEX5
TABLE 7: VEGETABLE WITHOUT IRRIGATION
Item                         Unit              Quantity  Price (Y/kg)       Total
1. Output
Yield                       kg/mu                1,500           0.4         600
2. Input                                                                    243.6
Seed                        kg/mu                  0.1          440           44
Fertilizer                  kg/mu                   50            3           150
Pesticide                   kg/mu                 0.05           90           4.5
Land preparation           Yuan/mu                                             40
Tax                        Yuan/mu                                            5.1
Labor                   person-day/mu               20
3. Net revenue             Yuan/mu                                          356.4
4. Return to labor      Yuan/person-day                                     17.82
TABLE 8: VEGETABLE WITH IRRIGATION
Item                         Unit              Quantity  Price (Y/kg)       Total
1. Output
Yield                       kg/mu                 3500           0.4         1400
2. Input                                                                    496.7
Seed                        kg/mu                  0.1          440           44
Fertilizer                  kg/mu                   75            3          225
Pesticide                   kg/mu                 0.06           90           5.4
Land preparation           Yuan/mu                                            40
Tax                        Yuan/mu                                            5.1
Irrigation fee             Yuan/mu                                          177.2
Labor                    person-day/mu              25
3. Gross revenue           Yuan/mu                                         1080.5
4. Net revenue             Yuan/mu                                          903.3
5. Return to labor      Yuan/person-day                                      36.1



