Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3078 CHA
Project Agreement
(Hebei Earthquake Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
HEBEI PROVINCE
Dated June 12, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3078 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and HEBEI PROVINCE (Hebei).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People’s Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
twenty-one million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR  21,100,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that Hebei agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS Hebei, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Hebei declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and technical 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Hebei shall otherwise agree, Hebei shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Hebei shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Hebei shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Association and 
Hebei, a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with Hebei 
on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Hebei shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit.
(b)
Hebei shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Hebei of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Hebei shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Hebei responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Hebei shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such 
Page  3
year, the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Hebei thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Hebei of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Hebei Province:
The People's Government
  of Hebei Province
10, Wei Ming Street
Shijiazhuang
Hebei Province
People's Republic of China
Page  4
Telex:
26240 PBLSJ CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Hebei may be 
taken or executed by any Vice Governor of Hebei or such other person or persons as 
said Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Hebei shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
Authorized Representative
HEBEI PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Shopping 
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement of Small 
Works Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 in Part B of this Section, 
works shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
Page  5
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully. 
3.
Force Account
Works for the reconstruction of about 250 village-level schools that meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $2,500,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be carried out by 
force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the commencement of procurement through national shopping, small works 
procurement and force account procedures in accordance with the provisions of Part B 
of this Section I, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more and each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, the Borrower 
shall 
provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Individual Consultants
Page  6
Services for establishing appropriate building codes under Part A of the Project 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01(b) 
of this Agreement. 
Project Management 
1.
Hebei shall maintain or cause to be maintained throughout the period of 
implementation of the Project, earthquake program offices at the provincial and 
municipal levels and in each of the Project Counties, each with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association and with competent staff in adequate 
numbers. 
Financing
2.
Hebei shall, through Zhangjiakou Municipality, make available to each of the 
Project Beneficiaries the portion of the Credit proceeds corresponding to the cost of 
goods, works and services required for its respective activities under the Project and 
to be financed out of such proceeds: 
(a)
for Project Parts other than Parts A(i) and C, on the following terms and 
conditions: 
(i)
the principal amount of the proceeds so made available shall be 
the equivalent 
in terms of SDR (determined on the respective 
date of withdrawal from the 
Credit Account) of the 
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on 
account of the cost of goods, works and services required for such activities 
undertaken by such Project Beneficiary under the Project, and to be 
financed 
out of such proceeds (the SDR Amount) and shall be 
recovered from the Project 
Beneficiary in terms of the 
Page  7
currency of the Borrower (determined on the date 
or respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out; 
(ii)
such principal amount shall be repaid over a period of thirteen 
(13) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of four (4) years; 
(iii)
a service charge of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum shall 
be paid on such principal amount withdrawn and not 
repaid from time to time; 
and 
(iv)
a commitment charge not exceeding one half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per 
annum shall be paid on such principal amount 
not withdrawn from time to time.
(b)
for Part A(i) of the Project (housing reconstruction and repair), on a 
grant basis. 
Selection Criteria
3.
Hebei shall ensure that schools and houses under Part A of the Project, shall be 
selected from a list of earthquake-damaged facilities acceptable to the Association, 
on the basis of the following criteria: (a) community need; (b) type and age of 
structure; (c) suitability for repair; (d) expected service life after repair; and 
(e) scope for enhancement of productive activities. 
Monitoring and Reporting
4.
Hebei shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, quarterly reports on or about January 31, April 30, July 
31 and October 31 in each year, integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) above, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar quarter and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the then current calendar 
quarter; and
(c)
after furnishing each report referred to in paragraph (b) above, review 
said report with the Association, and promptly take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the Association's 
views on the matter.
