RESTRICTED
Report No. P-471
FILE COPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF BURUNDI
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
March 21, 1966



INTERNATIONAL DEVIOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECO-MMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONCERNING A
DEVELOPIENT CREDIT FOR A WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TO THE KINGDOM OF BURUNDI
1.     I submit the following report and recornendation   on a proposed
credit, in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $1.1 million,
to the Kingdom of Burundi, to assist in financing a water supply project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.     The proposed credit would be the first IDA operation in Burundi.
Burundi became independent in 1962 and joined the Bank and IDA in 1963,
after having been administered, together with neighboring Rwanda, as
part of the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi. In 1957, the Bank,
made a loan of $4.8 million to Ruanda-Urundi, with the guarantee of
Belgium, for a road and lake port project located in Burundi. Although
no arrangements have yet been made by Belgium, Rwanda and Burundi regard-
ing the succession to the loan debt, Burundi has in fact been servicing
all amounts due under the loan out of its annual resources from Belgian
economic assistance. The status as of February 28, 1966 of the Bank loan
to Ruanda-Urundi is as follows:
Year  Borrower        Purpose                    Amount (US $ million)
1957  Ruanda-Urundi   Road and lake port         4.8 (wholly disbursed)
of which has been repaid  1.1
Total now outstanding     3.7
Amount sold      3.00
of which has
been repaid    1.1      1.9
Total now held by Bank    1.8
3.     In June 1964, the Government of Burundi asked the Association to
consider financing a water supply project to be carried out by Regideso,
the water and power authority of Burundi. A mission appraised the pro-
ject in October/November 1964.  Political difficulties following the



- 2 -
assassination of the Prime Minister in October 1965 delayed the start of
negotiations and a second appraisal mission went to Burundi in November
1965 to update information about the project and the operations of Regideso.
Formal negotiations for the proposed credit were completed in Washington
on February 1, 1966. The government was represented by a delegation
headed by the Director General of the Ministry of Finance and Regideso
by its General Manager.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Borrower:                     The Kingdom of Burundi.
Beneficiary:                  Regideso, the power and water
supply authority in Burundi.
Amount:                       Equivalent in various currencies
to $1.1 millioc,
Purpose:                      To finarce part of the cost of
the construction and expansion
of the water supply system
serving Bujumbura, the capital
city, and adjacent communities.
Amortization:                 The development credit would be
for a period of 50 years with no
amortization for 10 years. One
half of one per cent of the
principal amount would be payable
semi-annually frcm August 1, 1976
to February 1, 1986, and one and
one-half per cent semi-annually
from August 1, 1986 to February 1,
2016.
Service Charge:               3/A of 1% per annum on the principal
amount of the credit disoursed and
outstanding.
Relending Terms and Project
Agreement.:                   The Kingdom of Burundi would relend
the proceeds of the IDA credit to
Regideso for 1L-1/2 years including
5 years of grace at an interest rate
of 5-1/2% per annum.



- 3 -
PART III - THE PROJECT
b.       A report on the project "Appraisal of the Bujumbura Water Supply
Project" (TO-076c) is attached. The existing water system in Bujumbura
has been operating above capacity for a number of years. Service is
deteriorating and the duration of periods of no service is rapidly in-
creasing. Moreover, present water sources are inadequate and are sub-
ject to damage from flooding. The project would provide an adequate and
reliable supply of pure water from a practically unlimited source, Lake
Tanganyika. The additional capacity proposed would meet the demand up
to 1978 and could easily be expanded.
5.       The project would be operated by Regideso, the power and water
supply authority in Burundi. In the past Regideso operated under a highly
competent administration. During the last few years Regideso made
considerable efforts to follow conservative management practices but its
operations were seriously affected by the deterioration of the general
economic situation in Burundi, government instability and disorganized
public administration. Although earlier levels of performance have yet
to be regained, the improvement that began in 1963 was confirmed by the
results obtained in 1964 and 1965. With support to increase its foreign
staff and to train local personnel, Regideso can again become a well
run organization. Regideso has agreed to hire an additional engineer witn
extensive training and experience and will engage an additional administra-
tor if administrative, billing and collection practices do not improve
subs` antially in the course of this year. The government has already been
sending and will continue to send qualified high school graduates to foreign
universities for advanced training in the fields of engineering and businesr,
administration. Some of these may be considered for key staff positions
within Regideso on their return.
6.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $1.7 million, of
which about $1.1 million, 65%, would be in foreign exchange.   The proposed
credit would cover the foreign cost of the project. Regideso has
accumulated substantial cash reserves, is not expected to encounter any
difficulty in financing the remaining 35% and would be able to maintain
adequate working capital throughout the construction period.
7.       The present rate of return on net fixed assets of Regideso is low.
This derives to a large extent from the past policies of the government
and the agency. The government and Regideso have agreed to put the
future operations of the agency on a sound financial basis and to maintair
or increase rates so as to produce a rate of return of at least 6% on net
fixed assets at the earliest possible date, and in any event not later than
1972. In the case of the water department, major rate increases are
necessary, the first of which is expected to take place at the end of 1969
when the new facilities will come into operation and enable Regideso to
improve the service.



8.       The project would be carried out over a period of 3-1/2 years,
1966-69. Construction would be supervised by a consultant. Contracts
for civil work, as well as for the purchase of machinery, equipment
and materials, would be submitted to international competitive bidding.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUIENTS AND AUTE_RITY
9.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of
Burundi, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and REGIDESO
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V, Sect`on l(d)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
10.      The draft Development Credit Agreement provides, in addition to
the usual provisions, that the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the
Credit to REGIDESO on the basis of an agreement between the Borrower and
REGIDESO satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.01), and that with-
drawals from the Credit Account would be made directly by REGIDESO (Sec-
tion 7.03(b)).
11.      The draft Project Agreement is substantially in the form used by
the Association for projects of this kind. Section 2.09 provides that,
without the agreement of the Association, REGIDESO would not incur any
long-term debt if as a result thereof, the ratio between its total long-
term debt and its total equity would be higher than bo:60.
PART V - THE ECONC1IY
12.      A report on the economy of Burundi was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors in April 1965.
13.      While about half of Burundi's economy was still based on tradi-
tional subsistence agriculture, at the time of its independence in 1962,
it had achieved a modest degree of modern development, particularly in
the production of high quality coffee (its main export), a few other cash
crops, an embryonic industrial sector and a basic transport infrastructure.
lb.      The three years after independence were difficult ones, as the
result of natural calamities (flooding), the breakup in 196b of the
customs and monetary union with Rwanda, and a number of domestic political
and administrative problems. These difficulties contributed to the
creation of a serious budgetary and foreign exchange crisis wihich became
acute by the end of 196b.
15.      However, in February 1965, the government worked out with the
assistance of the IMF a stabilization program including a 75% devaluation
of the currency which took place in February 1965 and a significant
increase in the overall rate of taxation. The implementation of this
program has proved to be an important step toward the achievement of a



- 5 -
more balanced economic growth. The price increases which resulted have
been moderate, foreign trade and transfers have to a large extent been
freed frcm restrictions, and multiple currency practices have virtually
disappeared.
16.      There were also some setbacks during 1965.   The output of coffee.
providing 80% of Burundi's export earnings, was substantially lower than
expected, due to climatic conditions, and foreign exchange reserves
declined somewhat.  Since October 1965, unforeseen government expenditures
caused by the political events in that month and their aftermath have had
an adverse effect on budget expenditures. Consequently, there has been
larger recourse to credit by government than foreseen, although overall
credit expansion remained within the limits of the stabilization program.
17.      The government is undertaking immediate action to increase its
control over current expenditure and to take measures directed toward
keeping further growth of expenditure and recourse to credits within the
limiis of the program for the current year agreed upon with the IMF.
Renewed DIF standby agreements, which will enable Burundi to overcome
continuing seasonal discrepancies in its foreign exchange situation, are
likely to be forthcoming.
18.      Prospects are good for a more substantial coffee crop in 1966,
and this should permit the current budget to reach equilibrium. However,
a further removal of transfer restrictions in January 1966 may result
in a further use of reserves in 1966 equal to or slightly higher than
that of 1965.
19.      Balance of payments deficits are expected to continue for some
years to come. However, there are fair prospects that increased foreign
exchange earnings frcm both existing and newly introduced crops, together
with a continued inflow of foreign aid in moderate amounts, will enable
Burundi to achieve equilibrium in its external accounts within a reason-
able time and without undue difficulty.
PART VI - CCMPLIANCE 1JITH ARTICLES OF AGREMIENT
20.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOIND0$ATION
21.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the followving
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of a Development Credit
to the Kingdom of Burundi
(Bujumbura Water Supply Project)
in an Amount Equivalent to
US$ 1,100,000



-6-
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Kingdom of Burundi in an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to one million and one hundred thousand dollars ($1,100,000),
to mature on and prior to February 1, 2016, to bear a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/b of 1%)
per annum, and to be upon other terms and conditions set forth
in the form of Development Credit Agreement (Bujumbura Water
Supply Project) between the Kingdcm of Burundi and the Association
and the form of Project Agreement (Bujumbura lWater Supply Project)
between the Association and the Regie de Distribution d'Eau et
d'Electricit6, which have been presented to this meeting.
Attachments
W4ashington, D. C.                                   George D. Woods
March 21, 1966                                          President



