FILE        COPY'              RESTRICTED
Report No.  TO0-476c
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE
BUJUMBURA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
THE KINGDOM OF BURUNDI
March 18, 1966
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
U.S. $1.00        = BF 87. 50 (BF - Burundi Franc)
1,000 BF          - U.S. $11.43
1,000,000 BF      = U.S. $11,429
Abbreviations
m3                = cubic meter (264 gallons)
lcd               = liters per capita per day
mn /d             = cubic meters per day
mn /yr            = cubic meters per year
Fiscal Year
January 1 thwough December 31



APPRAISAL OF THE
BUJUMBURA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
THE KINGDOM OF BURUNDI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paragraphs
SUMMARY AND CONCLIJSIONS                                   i-vi
I.  INTRODUCTION                                               1-2
II.  THE PROPOSED BORRGr.FR                                     3-5
III.  THE PRESENT ORGANIZATION OF REGIDESO                       6-17
IV.  THE PRESENT SYSTEMS, WATER, SEWAGE, ELECTRICITY           18-31
A.  The Existing Water System Sources and
Faciliti.es                               18-21
B.  The Distribution System                    22
C.  Fire Hydrants                              23
D. Water Connections                           24-25
E. Metering                                    26
F. Water Quality and Public Health Aspects     27-28
G.  Present Drainage and Sewer System          29
H.  Present Electrical System                  30-31
V.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS                                         32-48
A.  Water Rates                                32-33
B.  Present Financial Situation                34-48
VI.  THE PROJECT                                               49-65
A. Water Use Estimates and Design
Requirements                              49
B.  The Proposed Water Source                  50-53
C. Proposed Works                              54-55
D.  Project Costs                              56_60
E.  Design, Procurement and Construction       61-65
VII.  FINANCING PLAN AND PROJECTIONS                            66-78
A. Proposed Financing Plan                     66-71
B. Financial Projections and Water Rates       72-78
VIII. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT                               79-83
IX. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                            84-86
This report is based on the findings of two missions, one
in October 1964 composed of Messrs. Kreuter and Shipman, and
the second in November 1965 composed of Messrs. Rajagopalan,
Renger, and Shipman, and on a report prepared by Mr. A. Thys,
WHO Consultant.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd.)
ANNEXES
1.  Organization Chart - REGIDESO, Burundi
2. Existing Water Facilities
3.  Number of New Water Connections by Year - 1953, 1957, 1960-1963
4. Water Consumption by Types of User - 1959, 1960, 1963
5. Water Service Charges and Rates
6. Income Statements 1961-1964
7. Balance Sheets 1961-1964
8.  Comments on Financial Statements 1961-1964
9. Population and Water Consumption Projections, 1963-1978
10. Water Production and Consumption Projections, 1956-1976
11. Construction Costs by year, 1966-1969
12. Activity Control Schedule
13. Income Statement Forecasts, 1965-1973
14. Sources and Requirement of Funds Forecasts, 1965-1973
15. Balance Sheet Forecasts, 1965-1973
16. Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
IMAPS
1. Burundi
2. Bujumbura, Burundi, Existing and Proposed Water System



APPRAISAL OF THE BUJUMBURA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGDOM OF BURUNDI
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.       The Kingdom of Burundi has requested a credit from the Interna-
tional Development Association to help finance part of the costs of major
improvements to the water system for Bujumbura. The project includes
construction of an intake, a new water treatment plant, and additional
storage and transmission facilities. REGIDESO (Regie de Distributions
dtEau et d'Electricite), the national water and electric authority, to
whom the credit would be re-lent, would execute the project and operate
the system upon completion.
ii.      Present water sources are inadequate and are subjected to damage
and interruption during heavy storms. Water service is now deteriorating
with certain sections of the city receiving no water during the periods of
peak demand. New facilities are required to solve these problems.
iii.     The proposed project would provide an adequate quantity of pure
water from a practically unlimited source, Lake Tanganyika. The facili-
ties to be constructed could be easily and economically extended and ex-
panded in successive stages to meet all future demand. The construction
to be undertaken immediately would meet the projected requirements for
about 10 years after completion in 1969.
iv.      REGIDESO has operated under a highly competent administration.
During the past few years, since independence, there has been a tendency
for the administration to become less efficient due, among other things,
to a limited number of trained personnel. Provision is made in the pro-
posed project for strengthening management and for retaining existing key
foreign staff until such time as local personnel can be trained to take
over all operations.
v.       An IDA credit of U.S.$1.1 million would cover approximately 65%
of the total project cost estimated at U.S.$1.7 million (BF 149.5 million).
The remaining portion would be financed out of cash reserves and from
revenues generated during the construction period. Projections indicate
a financially satisfactory situation throughout the construction period
and the years following. Though interest during the construction period
will be capitalized for accounting purposes, it will be paid when due.
A water rate increase of about 20% will be required at the end of the
construction period around January 1, 1970.
vi.      With the contractual arrangements recommended in paragraph 85,
the project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of U.S.$1.1 million
equivalent to the Government of Burundi, to be re-lent to REGIDESO at an
interest rate of 5k%efor 14; years, including 5 years of grace.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Kingdom of Burundi has requested a credit from the Interna-
tional Development Association to help finance an expansion of the existing
water supply facilities for the City of Bujumbura (see Maps 1 and 2). An
IDA credit of $1,100,000 would cover approximately two-thirds of the total
project cost. The remainder of funds required for the project would be
made available by REGIDESO (Regie de Distributions d'Eau et d'Electricite)
through accumulated funds and from funds generated during the construction
period.
2.        This appraisal is based on information contained in a report
prepared by a consultant of the World Health Organization and submitted by
the borrower, and from information collected by two IDA missions, one in
October of 1964, composed of Gunther Kreuter and Harold Shipman, and the
second in November 1965, composed of Messrs. Renger, Rajagopplan and Shipman.
II. THE PROPOSED BORRO14ER
3.        The proposed IDA credit would be made to the Kingdom of Burundi
which would re-lend the proceeds to REGIDESO, an agency of the government
under the Ministry of Public Works. REGIDESO has operated under a high
degree of administrative and financial autonomy and is charged with
responsibility for the production and distribution of water and electricity
in Burundi. It may also be authorized, on decision of the Minister of
Public Works, to take over responsibilities connected with other public
services and which either directly or indirectly relate to its major objec-
tives as, for example, sewage disposal.
4.        REGIDESO of Burundi was established by a legislative ordinance on
June 22, 1962, and is the successor of REGIDESO which served the Belgian
Congo and Rwanda-Urundi from 1939 to 1960, and Rwandi-Urundi only from 1960
to 1962.
5.        The proceeds of the credit made to the Government of Burundi will
be re-lent to REGIDESO through the channel of the Royal Bank of Burundi
which would act on behalf of the Minister of Finance.
III.  THE PRESENT ORGANIZATION OF REGIDESO
6.        The General Manager of REGIDESO is nominated by the Minister of
Public Works and the appointment made by the King after consultation with
his advisers. The manager appears to have all of the powers necessary to
properly administer and manage the affairs of REGIDESO. Proposals for
changes in rates for water and electricity are forwarded to the Minister
of Public Works by the General Manager of REGIDESO, and authority to approve
any change is vested with the Minister. The Minister of Public Works also
has authority to issue the general regulations governing water and power
operations. REGIDESO has operated over the period of its existence with
little or no interference from government.//Assurances have been obtained
from the government that this favorable policy will be continued.



7.        The chart presented in Annex 1 reflects the organization as it
now exists. REGIDESO was undoubtedly a very well run organization at the
time it was under the parent body operating from Brussels. It now shows
some of the signs of a young organization that is learning to function
without the guidance and support of a central office, and without a suffi-
cient number of trained workers. All senior staff are overworked and
little opportunity exists for planning, training, and evaluation. With
particular attention given to collection of accounts and general improve-
ment of management, REGIDESO should return to the position of a well run
utility. Some assistance by a competent consultant in improving records
and in modifying billing and collection procedures was proposed during the
appraisal, and a request submitted to WHO (World Health Organization) from
REGIDESO has resulted in assignment of a short time consultant to Burundi
to assist REGIDESO on these problems.
8.        REGIDESO operates only two water systems in the country, one in
Bujumbura having a population estimated at about 67,000, and the other in
Kitega. The same policies are followed in administering each system and
the Kitega system although small (about 200 connections and 12 employees)
yields a high return on investment. Because other communities of Burundi
are smaller than Kitega and most have hand pumps or springs, no immediate
demand exists for providing piped facilities of the type for which REGIDESO
has responsibility. It is expected that such demand will develop slowly.
9.        In addition to a General Manager, who is a Burundian, and four
foreign technicians, there are a total of 192 personnel employed by
REGIDESO in its water and electrical operations. There is no civil service
and all personnel fall within employment policies established by REGIDESO.
Although not unionized, there was a strike of the employees over an appar-
ent misunderstanding in 1964.
10.       The General Manager has occupied his present post for several
years and appears to be regarded very highly by not only his colleagues
but by the public in general. Only qualified persons should be nominated
to fill vacancies which develop in this post and it has been agreed that
before appointment, IDA will be given the opportunity to comment.
11.       There are only a few national personnel employed by REGIDESO who
have a high school education. The effect of this is to make extremely
difficult the delegation of authority with assurance that it will be proper-
ly used. Absence of such staff is particularly evident in the engineering
field and high level administrative work. It is apparent that if some day
REGIDESO is to function under complete national staffing, a long range
program of training and development will be required. It is visualized
that at least four or five selected high school graduates should be sent
abroad for college training in the fields of engineering and public admini-
stration. These trainees should be followed in successive years by others.
Information received by IDA indicates that the National Planning Office
is coordinating all fellowships made available through multilateral and
bilateral assistance programs and that currently three engineers are under
training in Europe. This program will be continued and REGIDESO will have
a hand in the selection of promising high school graduates who, after



- 3 -
their return, can be given in-service experience and instruction within the
Authority and, when fully qualified, appointed to responsible posts. All
existing and new expatriate staff will be given a specific responsibility
for the training of national staff with the objective of turning over to
them as rapidly as possible, all functions of REGIDESO.
12.       There is some evidence that the performance of the present admini-
strative staff of REGIDESO is improving and it is considered desirable to
review the record after one more year to determine whether the present
staff can bring about the required changes. As will be noted in paragraphs
38 and 49, there is a problem in the collection of accounts and in the
reduction of unaccounted-for water. It has been agreed that unless within
one year 92% of current accounts are being collected and unaccounted-for
water has been reduced to 30% or less, a qualified administrator will be
added to the staff to concentrate on these and other problems.
13.       At least one qualified engineer is required by REGIDESO to help
it during the construction program and to assist in the improvement of
engineering operations. It is possible that assistance in the provision
of such an engineer may be forthcoming through the United Nations Technical
Assistance and the World Health Organization.
14.       It is expected that some opposition will be encountered to a
continuation of foreign personnel in REGIDESO over an extended period.
However, it is believed that in the interests of the government for the
maintenance of proper service and for assurance that obligations under-
taken in a project can be met, foreign staffing must be continued for such
time as IDA and REGIDESO agree. Assurances were obtained from the govern-
ment to this effect.
Changes in the Legislative Ordinance (Charter)
15.       The Charter, which sets forth the guidelines under which REGIDESO
functions, was revised after the first appraisal visit in order to enable
REGIDESO to function with somewhat more autonomy and to permit it and the
government to follow sound policies in operation and control. Although
it is believed that in the future further revision may prove desirable,
the present Charter is considered acceptable for at least the period of
the project.                                                    --
16.       The REGIDESO Charter provides that the Minister of Public Works
may determine the categories of decisions concerning the conduct of the
operations of REGIDESO which will be subject to his approval. As this
feature of the Charter could have a direct impact upon the autonomy of
REGIDESO, assurances were obtained that no undue influence will be exerted
by the government on the day-to-day operations of REGIDESO.
17.       REGIDESO now is able to charge for all services provided in
water and electricity. This situation will continue and REGIDESO will not
be required to provide either these or added services except where ade-
quate provision is made to compensate for all costs incurred.



- 4 -
IV. THE PRESENT SYSTEMS, WATER, SE7WAGE, ELECTRICITY
A.   The Existing Water System Sources and Facilities
18.       The present water system, completed in 1949, consists of a spring
source and a river source, treatment works, storage and distribution facili-
ties. Information on each system is given in Annex 2.
19.       The system has been operating at capacity for a number of years
and since 1961, the treatment plant for river water has been functioning
at a rate of 33% above its designed capacity. The combined total production
of 9000 cubic meters per day (m3/d) cannot meet present demands and the
number of areas in the city without water during part of the day is
increasing.
20.       Six wells installed in 1957 and 1958 near the lake (Map 2) have
been abandoned. Four of the wells had a very high iron content which would
have necessitated treatment, and the yield of the other two decreased from
50 m3/hr. to 10 m3/hr. During 1964, the rise in lake level caused flooding
of all the well sites. Further development or use of these wells is not
being considered by REGIDESO.
21.       The treatment facilities are of modern design and are reasonably
well maintained. Operation could be improved by on-the-job training of
the existing personnel by a specialized advisor.
B.   The Distribution System
22.       The present distribution network consists of 165 kilometers of
mains and 63 kilometers of connecting lines. Most of the mains are of
steel, although some asbestos cement pipe is used. Five reservoirs with
a total capacity of 2,020 m3 are located on the distribution system. There
are two pumping stations, one located adjacent to the treatment plant, and
the other at an elevation above the treatment plant for supply of water to
the higher districts of the city.
C.   Fire Hydrants
23.       Although fire is stated not to be a problem in Bujumbura, there
are 220 fire hydrants located throughout the distribution system. These
are installed and maintained by REGIDESO without compensation.
D.   Water Connections
24.       Annex 3 shows the year-by-year record of new connections, con-
sumers, number of meters in service, and extensions to the system. There
are at present 3,976 registered water consumers representing around 20,000
people. The balance of the population is primarily served from public
taps. It is apparent from the record that the number of new connections
per year is very limited and the number of people served by house connec-
tions is low. It is believed that this can be explained in part by the
very conservative business policies followed by REGIDESO in the past and
which have required the payment of a substantial fee for the initial service



- 5 -
connection. The result of this policy has been to limit new connections
to the better class housing areas where cash in excess of BF 5000
(US$60.00) can be paid for a connection.  A more liberal policy for pay-
ment of service connections over a period of time might be considered by
REGIDESO as a mechanism for increasing home services and extending both
the market and the benefits of water. Annex 4 shows the water consumption
by type of consumer in the years 1959, 1960 and 1963.
25.       In addition to the house service connections, there are 17 public
laundries and 96 street fountains which serve the mass of the population.
Of the 17 public laundries, most have been disconnected because of the cost
of supplying water to the facilities, a cost covered by the municipality
and which it has felt was beyond its means. These laundries have been well
received by the public and it is believed that means might be found whereby
use of the facilities could be restored and made self-supporting through
nominal payments by the users. REGIDESO has agreed to study both this
possibility and that related to amortization of costs for new service
connections.
E.   Metering
26.       All service connections in Bujumbura are metered.   This policy
applies not only to house connections but also to public taps and public
buildings. Bills for the public taps are sent to the municipality for
payment. This procedure should be continued. All meters are of the tur-
bine or velocity type and of two different makes, both manufactured in
Belgium. Turbine meters usually are found to under-register and are par-
ticularly inaccurate at low flows and low pressures. They also require
more frequent maintenance. However, in view of the fact that all meters
now installed, and all new meters in inventory are of this particular
type, it does not seem advisable to embark immediately on a wide scale pro-
gram of replacement. At such time as new meters are ordered, consideration
should be given to procurement of a displacement type.
F.   Water Quality and Public Health Aspects
27.       Raw water from both of the existing sources can be considered to
be satisfactory, being low in hardness and relatively free of bacterial
contamination. Water from the spring source is high in iron. Water enter-
ing the distribution system is of good quality except that the chlorine
dosage is usually below the levels normally recommended by the World Health
Organization, and does not permit a residual concentration throughout the
distribution system. As the demand increases and the water shortages
become more acute, opportunities for contamination to enter the water dis-
tribution system will become more frequent since adequate pressures cannot
be maintained with present facilities.
28.       Public health information made available through the World Health
Organization shows that the incidence of parasitic diseases of faecal
origin is 5 times as high in the districts of Bujumbura which are not



- 6 -
served by sanitary facilities (water and sewerage) as in the areas where
such facilities are available. These figures also show that the bacterial
diseases are 3 times as high in the groups not served. In interpreting
these results, it is well to point out that other factors in addition to
water and sewerage are probably involved. It can be expected, however,
that reduction in the parasitic and bacterial diseases would occur could
more families in Bujumbura be supplied by water at the house and with ade-
quate sewage facilities. Liberalization of the policy on payment for new
connections as mentioned in paragraph 24 should encourage a gradual in-
crease in the number of homes served by water. It is anticipated, however,
that for the mass of the low income group, reliance on public taps will
prevail for the foreseeable future.
G.   Present Drainage and Sewer System
29.       At the present time, there is no planned sewerage system in
Bujumbura. Most dwelling houses, commercial buildings and schools dis-
charge their waste waters into septic tanks. The effluent from these
tanks frequently findsits way to drainage ditches or drainage lines which
eventually discharge to the lake. Ngara, a suburb of Bujumbura (popula-
tion approximately 15,000), is served by the Bujumbura water supply and
has a complete sanitary sewerage system which has not been maintained.
The urban sewer system in Bujumbura is the responsibility of the Civil
Engineering Department of the Ministry of Public Works. Because of its
responsibility for water supply and the need to prevent pollution of its
water sources, and because it has experience in providing municipal ser-
vices, REGIDESO is particularly suited to carry responsibility for sewer
services as well as water and electricity. It appears that within a few
years after completion of the proposed project for improvement of the
water system, REGIDESO may have a considerable amount of funds which might
logically be applied against improvement of the sewer system. The present
ordinance provides that the Minister of Public Works may designate REGIDESO
as the agency responsible for such a function.
H.   Present Electrical System
30.       REGIDESO has responsibility for providing electricity to the
entire country. In recent years REGIDESO has purchased its power for use
in Burundi from a power plant located at Bukavu in the Congo. Because of
the severance of relations between Burundi and the Congo, this power
supply was cut off in the middle of 1964 and REGIDESO was forced to revert
to use of its own generation plant which has been maintained on stand-by
status for a number of years. This plant is a diesel driven facility
which consists of two 400 KVA, four 500 KVA, and two 800 KVA generators.
These deliver 6,600 volts at 50 cycles. REGIDESO is completing the in-
stallation of 5 additional generators (four of 225 KVA each and one of 450
KVA). Diesel fuel has to be brought from Dar es Salaam by rail to Lake
Tanganyika and then trans-shipped by boat to Bujumbura. This resulted in
a great increase in the cost of electricity in Burundi during 1964 and power
prices had to be doubled to BF 4.00/kwh.



31.       In early February of 1965, improved relations between Burundi
and the Congo resulted in restoration of power supplied from Bukavu. As
Bukavu could not continue to provide power at the old rates of BF 1.00/kwh,
the rate was initially increased to BF 1.30/kwh. Bukavu is pressing for a
further increase.



- 8 -
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Water Rates
32.      The schedule of water rates in use in Bujumbura is shown in Annex
5. This was the rate schedule already used before devaluation of the
currency and resulted in an average charge in 1963 of BF 7.00/m3 (about
U.S.$0.53 per thousand gallons, a charge which was considerably higher
than that prevailing in most cities of the world). Starting in 1964 the
average charge worked out to be around BF 7.50/m-) (about U.S.$0.32 per
thousand gallons after devaluation, a figure which is somewhat nearer
current charges in other cities). This is BF 0.50/m3 higher than
calculated at the time of the appraisal in October/November 1964.
33.      Aside from the observation that the charges for water used in
swimming pools appears to be too low in proportion to other uses, it is
believed that the present system is simple and equitable.   It has been
acceptable to the consumers and no advantages in change of the system
appear to excist at the present time.
B. Present Financial Situation
34.      The government has recently devalued its currency from the original
BF 50 = U.S.l.00 to BF 87.5   U.S.$l.00.   The latter rate of exchange has
been used for all costing in this report. Fixed assets have not been re-
valued.
35.      The first complete financial statements for the operations covered
since independence by REGIDESO date back to the fiscal year 1961 (January 1 -
December 31).  The most recent statements are for the year 1964.   These
are still subject to government audit. Income statements and balance sheets
for the years 1961 to 1964 are shown in Annexes 6 and 7, comments are given
in Annex 8.
36.      In reviewing the statements it is apparent that the short financial
history of the Authority is closely related to the political events which
marked the country during the same period. In 1961, the Authority operated
at a normal pace and yielded satisfactory results. This picture altered
considerably during the independence year 1962 when operations generally
deteriorated. Finally, in 1963 and 1964 a certain recovery took place
but REGIDESO has not yet been able to regain fully its earlier level of
performance.
37.      Despite a continuous increase in water production, readings and
billings fell back in 1962 as a result of a general relaxation of admini-
strative discipline. There was, however, some improvement in 1963, al-
though the gap between production and billings could not be narrowed.
Also, the bills issued in 1963 reflect a general water rate increase that
took place in March of that year. Similar developments although less
pronounced, could be observed in connection with the sale of electricity.
The current income from power sales amounts to about three times that of
the water department.



- 9 -
38.      The impact of national events was accentuated by a sharp decline
in bill collections for which the Authority seemed momentarily to have
lost control in 1962. Accounts receivable from sales on both water and
power increased from BF 9.9 million in 1961 to BF 31.6 million in 1963
and BF 43.5 million in 1964. Net receivables from sales were equivalent
to 3 months at the end of 1961, to more than 7 months at the end of 1963,
and to more than 8 months at the end of 1964.
39.      There is growing evidence that a large part of the accounts re-
ceivable is uncollectable. Many clients have left Bujumbura and even
Burundi. Others have accumulated debts as a result of deferred billing
or deliberate non-payment and are now unable to honor their obligations.
40.      Partly under the influence of the almost perfect collection
record of the administration in the pre-independence period and partly
to avoid showing too unfavorable results, no allowance was made for bad
debts in 1962. To correct the situation, total profits for the years
1963 and 1964 were reserved against bad debts. The loss of BF 686
thousand shown on the Incorne Statement for 1963 on Annex 6 is due to
the fact that after reserving the entire profit for 1963 of BF 6.1
million against bad debts, depreciation was increased with BF 686
thousand, representing charges referring to 1962, when the required
4% depreciation was not fully charged in order not to show a loss for
that year.
41.      A precise assessment of uncollectable accounts should be made as
soon as practicable and appropriate allowances provided for in the profit
and loss account. Moreover, the government, its agencies, and the city
should immediately settle any outstanding accounts and hereafter pay
promptly their current bills.
42.      The total cost of water has increased only moderately during
the period 1961-1964, the increase generally being in proportion to the
production increases. The average water cost per m3 therefore shows only
slight variations.  Including a straight-line depreciation of 4% on gross
fixed assets, which is conservative, the water department made an apparent
net profit in each of the four years under consideration. The power de-
partment, in contrast, showed a net profit only in 1961, increasing
losses in 1962 and 1963 and a small profit again in 1964. These figures
include also depreciation of 4%. However, these results must be con-
sidered in the light of the non-existing or insufficient allowance for
bad debts referred to in paragraph 40.
43.      REGIDESO ended the year 1961 with an overall profit of BF 3.8
million, the accounts for 1962 and 1964 show neither profit nor loss,
while 1963 shows a small loss (see paragraph 40). "Other income" in-
cludes interest on funds placed with local banks.
44.      As shown in the balance sheets on Annex 7, REGIDESO has no long-
term debt. The reason for this is that all investments in fixed assets
were financed either by self-generated funds or the country's extraordinary
budget and took the form of a capital contribution. This results in the



- 10 -
capital being roughly equal to gross fixed assets. As the laws of REGIDESO
provide for the principle that "it shall meet expenditures out of its in-
come", the capital is a priori not intended to yield any return.
45.       Figures on the amount of gross fixed assets as shown in the
balance sheets were given to the Authority by the former Belgian agency
for the Congo and Rwanda-Urundi. These have not been checked and verified
by a complete physical inventory. Total depreciation has been taken equiva-
lent to about one-third of gross fixed assets. It is believed that this
reflects conservatively the actual physical depreciation of the installations.
Because specialized assistance will be needed in undertaking a revaluation
it has been agreed to complete the work within one year of the date of
arrival of the engineer REGIDESO is to add to its staff.
46.       The current ratio including inventories continued to remain
favorable and was 9.3:1 at the end of 1964. Among the main reasons for
this surprisingly high ratio is the large cash position which amounted to
BF 30.0 million at the end of 1964. The amount is largely a legacy of the
former Belgian administration and most likely attributable to the high
rate of depreciation. The cash position has been affected only moderately
by the sluggish bill collection referred to above.
47.       A yearly audit is carried out by the government's audit service.
The proposed Project Agreement provides that an annual audit in a manner
satisfactory to IDA will be carried out. Originally it was recommended
that the audit should be performed by an independent auditing firm. There
are no such firms in Burundi, however, and there is need to determine
whether the government audit can be upgraded sufficiently to be acceptable
to IDA or whether, in spite of the disadvantage, an outside firm will be
required.
48.       The mission reviewed the accounting system and came to the con-
clusion that although too simplified for the long run, it is basically sound
since the separation of accounts between the water and power departments,
abandoned as a result of personnel shortage, has been re-established. More-
over, the mission's impression is that with the exception of the handling
of the allowances for bad debts, REGIDESO generally has followed sound
financial practices within the framework of its laws.



- 11 -
VI.  THE PROJECT
A.   Water Use Estimates and Design Requirements
49.       Annexes 9 and 10 show a projection of the population growth for
Bujumbura together with the estimated consumption and production require-
ments for water until the year 1978. Because the accuracy of information
on population over the past years in Bujumbura is subject to some question,
conservative figures have been used in making the projections. The growth
rate for the period 1938 to 1963 is stated in the WHO report to be 8.3%
per annum. A figure of 6% is used in the projections. Present per capita
consumption is now shown as somewhat in excess of 80 liters per capita per
day (lcd). In the period from 1963 to 1968, it has been assumed that the
per capita consumption would drop from 100 to 79 lcd because of the inabili-
ty of present water sources to meet the demand. From 1969, when more water
becomes available, the per capita usage would gradually increase reaching
135 lcd in 1978. Production requirements have been projected on the
assumption that non-revenue water (water lost by leaks, under-registration
of meters, etc.) could be reduced from the present level of about 38% to
20% after approximately 10 years, and should remain at no more than 20%
thereafter.
B.   The Proposed Water Source
50.       The requirement for additional water to supply Bujumbura has
lead to a consideration of three possible sources from which to take the
water. These are the Ndahangwa River, ground water, and Lake Tanganyika.
Although the river source has the advantage of providing water by gravity
to much of the city, experience in utilization of this source over the
past fifteen years has shown it to involve costly maintenance and to be
unreliable during part of the year. At periods of flood, clogging of the
treatment plant with sediment carried by the river reduces availability of
water from this source. Furthermore, the erosion damage at the intake
works had lead REGIDESO and the WHO consultant to the opinion that further
development of this source should not be considered.
51.       Ground water has not received favorable consideration because of
the poor experience with existing wells as discussed in paragraph 20.
52.       Lake Tanganyika provides a practically limitless source of water
of good quality and is readily accessible to the city. Because of its
elevation, all water from this source would have to be pumped. Treatment
of the water to control contamination which enters the lake from drainage
systems, surface run off, and ships, will be required. Location of the
intake at a point where deep water begins and at some distance from the
shore should ensure that within the foreseeable future, pollution will be
very limited. The low turbidity of the lake water and very small amounts
of biological matter lead to the opinion that treatment of the water can
be minimal.
53.       It is the recommendation of the WHO consultant that Lake
Tanganyika be selected as the source of water for all future needs of



- 12 -
Bujumbura. This appears to be based on sound argument. Existing facili-
ties on the river and spring would continue to be used with the proviso
that if the river works become too badly damaged by floods, a decision
will have to be taken, based on an economic evaluation, as to whether re-
construction should be undertaken or that system abandoned.
C.   Proposed Works
54.       The proposed works would provide facilities sufficient to sup-
ply around 14,500 m3/d and with existing sources, would meet require-
ments until about 1978. If the river source had to be abandoned, addi-
tions to the treatment plant and some minor changes in pumps and piping
would take care of the additional water needed from the lake.
55.       The facilities to be provided by the project are shown on Map 2
and would be as follows:
a)   Intake Works:  An intake crib would be constructed at
a point approximately 800 meters from shore. A pipe of about
30" diameter would extend along the lake bottom from the crib to
the shore and to a pump station located on high ground about 300
meters inland. Water would be drawn from the pipeline by pumps
located at the station and would be forced to the treatment plant.
b)   Treatment Works:   Because the initial cost of slow
filters should not be greatly different than the cost of rapid sand
filters, estimates have been based on the assumption that these
filters will be installed. The decision on the type of treatment
to be employed should be left to further studies by the consultants
who prepare the final design for the project.
Limited storage of water in clear wells at the filters, a
pumping station, and a laboratory and control building would be
constructed at the treatment plant site.
c)   Distribution and Storage Works:   Additions to the
present distribution system are proposed primarily to permit equal-
ization of pressures and flows within the present grid. Extension
of the lines to areas outside the present system is not visualized
within the framework of the project. Extensions will be made
from existing pipe inventories and as a part of normal operations.
A new reservoir would be constructed at a site on the higher
part of the city adjacent to the present reservoirs. A reinforced
concrete structure with a capacity of 2500 m3 is proposed. This
would provide storage of about 5 hours for all the water supplied
from the lake source in 1978. After that time, additional storage
would probably be required.



- 13 -
D.   Project Costs
56.       The total cost of the project is estimated at BF 149.5 million
(US$1.7 million) as shown below:
Foreign       BF       Local
Exchange  Equivalent  Currency      Total
(in thousands)
US$         BF         BF        BF
Intake Works                     119       10,438       7,919      18,357
Treatment Works                  252        22,050      8,925      30,975
Storage, Pumps, & Distribution    345       30,231     14,157      44,388
Electrical Facilities and :
Equipment                40         3,456      3,062       6,518
756       66,175     34,063     100,238
Contingencies                    172       15,000       5,320      20,320
Engineering and Management
Services                172       15,075       4,367      19,442
Interest During Construction      -           -         9,500       9,500
Total                 1,100       96,250     53,250      149,500
Interest during construction amounting to BF 9,500,000 would be capitalized
but paid when due.
57.       Annex 11 shows the estimate for funds by year during construction.
Cost estimates are based on data assembled by the WHO consultant from con-
tractors working in the area and from costs of similar facilities in other
countries of Africa. The estimate on the cost of the intake works is
taken on the high side because of uncertainty on the soil conditions on
the lake bottom. Until studies of the lake bottom are completed, it will
not be known whether piling will have to be used for anchoring the line or
whether it may simply be trenched in the bottom.   The cost estimate assumes
that some piling may be necessary.
58.       Nearly all equipment, supplies, and materials including cement,
will have to be imported from outside Burundi. Skilled labor, engineering
services, and specialized construction workers do not exist in Burundi and
will have to be brought in. Distribution of total costs between local and
foreign reflect this situation.
59.       Although it can be expected that all local costs will not in-
crease in proportion to the amount of the devaluation, for purposes of
the estimates it_ has been assumed that the local costs would increase by
that extent. Lccal contingencies have been taken at around 15% while
total contingencies and escalation are taken at 20%, excluding engineering
and management services.



- 14 -
60.       Provision has been made for engineering and management services
to cover costs of design and supervision of construction and of short time
advisers in water supply operation and management.
E.   Design, Procurement and Construction
61.       The preliminary studies on which the project has been developed
have been carried out by a sanitary engineering consultant of WH0.
REGIDESO has requested proposals from a number of European engineering
firms to review the preliminary plans, prepare final plans. and specifica-
tions, assist in selection of contractors, and supervise construction.
IDA has received copies of draft contracts forwarded by REGIDESO and has
offered its comments on each. REGIDESO officials informed the Association
that they considered the proposal of the German firm, IGIP, most favorable
and planned tc sign a contract as soon as negotiations were completed.
This firm is specialized in water supply and is considered competent.
62.       A critical path diagram (Activity Control Schedule) showing an
estimate of the time requirements for carrying out the project is shown
in Annex 12. From this, it will be noted that the project could be com-
pleted by early 1969 if the engineering is started in the first half of
1966.
63.       REGIDESO has been exempted by special agreement with the govern-
ment from paying duties on imported items. This agreement was probably
based on a precedent established in waiving duties on supplies associated
with the previous Bank loan to the trusteeship of Rwanda-Urundi for the
highway project.
64.       Procurement would be by international competitive bidding.   It
is expected that bidding for construction contracts will be primarily from
foreign firms, although one local construction firm has the capacity to
undertake certain parts of the project. Because the project itself is not
large, it may prove desirable to break the work into not more than two or
three units in order to attract foreign bidders.
65.       REGIDESO has the right of land acquisition and expropriation for
public use. Because the government owns considerable property throughout
Bujumbura, the mission was informed that any sites required by REGIDESO
for the project could be obtained without charge. No provision has there-
fore been made in cost estimates for purchase of sites. Pipe line routes
will follow streets and therefore no right-of-way costs are anticipated.



P- 15 -
VII. FINANCING PLAN AND PROJECTIONS
66.      Financial projections are attached showing income statements, sources
and application of funds, balance sheets and assumptions on which they are
based. (Annexes 13 to 16). The projections cover the period until 1973.
67.      The cash amounts available at the beginning of the construction
period and the subsequent buildup of cash is assumed to be placed in time
deposits for amounts exceeding the current cash needs. (See Annex 16,
paragraph 5). There is, however, the possibility that these cash reserves
may be used in the future for some other project within the framework of
REGIDESOts statutory activities such as additional investments in the power
sector and sewer construction. During negotiations, it has been agreed that
before undertaking any future major projects (in excess of US$200,000 equiv-
alent), REGIDESO will consult with IDA to insure that obligations incurred
could be met without jeopardizing the financial position of the Authority.
A. Proposed Financing Plan
68.      REGIDESOts financial requirements for the project and other capital
outlays during the construction period from 1966 to 1969 are as follows:
Requirement of Funds                     BF      U.S.$ Equiv.
(in thousands)
Proposed Project
Foreign Cost                        96,250        1,100
Local Cost                          43,750          500
Interest during Construction         9,5oo          109
Total                     149,5oo       1,709
Other Fixed Assets (extensions and
improvements, power department)     4'500           51
Total Requirements        154OOO       1,760
Capital expenditures detailed in Annex 11 would be concentrated in the years
1967 and 1968. Interest during construction would be capitalized, but paid
when due. The IDA credit represents the foreign exchange part of the pro-
posed project.
69.      REGIDESO would meet its requirements from the following souirces:
Sources of Funds                   BF        U.S.$ Equiv.       %
(in thousands)
Proceeds of IDA Credit           96,250         1,100          62
Funds Generated from Operations  51,014           583          33
Decrease in Working Capital       6,736            77           5
Total Sources          154,000        1,760          100



16 -
70.      The financing plan above shows the Authority's ability to secure the
necessary local funds for carrying out the project. The foreign fund require-
ments would be met by the proceeds of an IDA credit, while all the other re-
quirements would be covered by internally-generated funds. It is expected
that the projected decrease in working capital can be obtained without re-
ducing the current ratio below 4.6:1, excluding inventories.
71.      The IDA credit of U.S.$1.1 million equivalent would be made avail-
able to the Government of Burundi under conventional IDA terms. The govern-
ment would relend the proceeds of the credit to REGIDESO in local currency
for a period of 14-1/2 years including 5 years of grace. The interest rate
would be 9%%. Although the financial projections indicate a cash balance of
BF 30 million at the end of the construction period (1969), it was agreed
during negotiations that this amount, in fact generated by the power depart-
ment, should remain reserved against eventual further investments in the power
sector. At the urgent request of the delegates from Burundi it was agreed to
extend the grace period of the loan from the government to one year beyond the
construction period (1966-1969) in order to allow the water department to
generate a small safety reserve in 1970. As indicated in the Financial
Projections, the repayment of the loan over a relatively short period should
not im=air the financial position of the water department.
B. Financial Projections and Water Rates
72.      The power department raised its average rates from BF 2.00/kwh to
BF 4.00/kwh in September 1964 to cover the increase in generating costs
occasioned by interruption of service from the Bukavu plant in the Congo.
With restoration of the Bukavu service, the rate was reduced by 10% to
BF 3.60/kwh. This rate should not be reduced further, especially since
Bukavu increased its bulk rate from BF 1.00/kwh to 1.30/kwh and is pressing
for a further increase.
73.      Because the present water system is operating at its full capacity,
only slight sales increases, attributable to a reduction in unaccounted-for
water, are expected until early 1969, when facilities of the proposed project
come into operation. The accumulated demand of the preceding years should
then cause a significant increase in consumption.
74.      Data available for the first half of 1965 indicate that water depart-
ment costs may have increased by around 60% in 1965, almost exclusively as a
consequence of the devaluation of the local currency. From then on, costs
should increase only gradually to reflect increases in power, chemicals, and
labor. Depreciation, which was calculated at a rate of 4% through 1964, has
been reduced to a more appropriate 2.25% from 1965 on. Allowance for bad
debts is conservatively estimated and would be reduced in steps from 15% of
the yearly sales in 1965 to 9% from 1969 on.
75.      Projections based on data covering the first six months of 1965 indi-
cate that the financial results of the water department show a small loss at
the end of 1965, but provided the department maintains a rigorous control of
its costs, small positive results should be achieved thereafter. A study of
an income statement forecast from 1966 to 1973 using the existing rates re-
veals that although all costs can be met from revenues, the rate of return
of the water department on net fixed assets in operation would continue to
remain low. In view of the deteriorating service, however, it was agreed



- 17 -
that the present average water rate of BF 7.50/m3 could be maintained during
the construction period, 1965-1969, provided no loss is incurred during these
years aFor the period after construction, it is believed that a 6% rate of
return on net fixed assets two years after the construction has been finished
should be the guide for establishing adequacy of water rates. On the basis
of the present estimates, an increase in the water rates of about 20% on
January 1, 1970, would be required to avoid an unfavorable balance between
revenues and costs in 1970 and 1971 and to result in a rate of return of
6% in 1972. The following table shows the effects of the water rate increase
on the estimated rate of return by years:
Estimated Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets in Operation
1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971    1972  1973
Water Department      -       0.5    1.4    0.5    2.3    4.0    5.1    6.1   7.3
REGIDESO              1.7    0.2    1.6     1.3    2.4    3.8    4.8    6.6   8.1
It should be mentioned that on a discounted cash flow basis, the project is
estimated to yield a return of 9.4%.
76.      The financial projections show that the operations of the water de-
partment would at all times after January 1, 1970 provide revenues sufficient
to cover the interest on a loan. Cash generation of the department after
January 1, 1970 would cover debt service each year without strain.
77.      A covenant referring to rates in the documents for the proposed credit
provides that rates for water and electricity should each cover all costs
assignable for its operation, and that the overall revenues of REGIDESO should
be sufficient to cover all costs and generate adequate reserves. For the pur-
pose of the test of adequacy the proposed agreements with the Borrower and
REGIDESO provide the following:
a) REGIDESO as a whole as well as each department independently will
cover its costs at all times.   To achieve this objective, the water department
may capitalize the interest payable during the construction period 1966-1969,
though it will pay the interest when due;
b) REGIDESO as a whole as well as each department independently will
achieve a rate of return on average net fixed assets in operations of at least
6% not later than January 1, 1972.
If REGIDESO conforms to this arrangement, it is estimated that in addition to
covering all operating costs and depreciation, sufficient funds would be gener-
ated to cover costs of normal extensions and to create reserves for future
major improvements.
78.      The overall financial position of REGIDESO is expected to remain
satisfactory. At the end of the construction period the maximum debt/equity
ratio of 25:75 should be reached, but should improve to 16:84 in 1973. The
current ratio including inventories is not expected to fall below 7.2:1 in
1 It was agreed that for the purpose of establishing rates until January 1,
1970 depreciation may be charged on the value of the assets pror to
revaluation.



- 18 -
1970 and should then increase to 8.9:1 by 1973. The current ratio excluding
inventories should reach its lowest point of 4.6:1 in 1970, but should re-
cover to 6.5:1 by 1973. Debt service coverage is expected to improve from
2.1 in 1971 to 2.7 in 1973. To insure that future ventures of REGIDESO may
not impair its financial position, the proposed project agreement provides
that the Authority's debt/equity ratio may not exceed 40:60 unless IDA would
otherwise agree and that for new projects exceeding $200,000 equivalent,
approval by IDA of the financing plan is required.
VIII. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT.
79.      The water system for Bujumbura was built in 1947 and no major changes
or additions have been made since its completion. The designed capacity of
the treatment facilities was reached around 1960. By overloading of the plant,
the supply has been increased and until 1963 the demand of the city was met
over most of the year. The service is now deteriorating and both the areas
without a continuous supply of water and the duration of periods of no service
are increasing. Since existing customers pay a high price for water they ex-
pect good service. Until completion of the proposed project, services will
continue to deteriorate.
80.      The present water system has as its main source the Ndahangwa River.
Because of heavy erosion to the area surrounding the water intake during
storms, Bujumbura now encounters periods when no water is available from
this source. It is possible that the intake works could be completely
destroyed by floods, leaving the city with only that water available from
the spring. The proposed project would not be affected by floods and would
prove a dependable source during all the year.
81.      Many of the people suffer from diseases which are directly or in-
directly associated with a poor water supply. While completion of the pro-
posed project will not lead to any dramatic change in this situation, it
will provide a sufficient quantity of safe water to permit expansion of the
system to serve increasing numbers each year. Modification and adjustment
of management policies in the next few years can establish means whereby
more people will be able to obtain connections.
82.      It is believed that if the administration of REGIDESO can be given
support by IDA to augment and retain foreign staff while at the same time
taking steps to begin the process of training the national personnel for
the long range, the project will have served a most useful purpose.
83.      As presented the project represents about the minimum construction
which would give a dependable supply until around 1978. Additional facil-
ities required at that time could be easily and economically added.



- 19 -
IX. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOiSIENDATIONS
84.      The present water supply system of Bujumbura has been operating for
several years in excess of its designed capacity, and no longer is able to
satisfy the continuously growing demand. The proposed project would meet
this demand until about 1978 through construction of facilities which would
utilize the waters of Lake Tanganyika. The project is technically sound
and financially feasible.
85.      Agreement has been reached on the following:
a) The post of General Mvianager would always be filled by a
qualified person, and at any time that vacancies occur
in this post, the name and qualifications of the proposed
replacement would be forwarded, and IDA given the oppor-
tunity to comment prior to his appointment (paragraph 10).
b) Rates for water and power would be sufficient to allow
each of the departments independently to cover operating
expenses including taxes, if any, and interest and to
provide for adequate maintenance and depreciation based
on a reasonable valuation of assets, to meet repayments
on long-term indebtedness to the extent that such repay-
ments exceed depreciation, to finance the normal year-
to-year extensions and to provide a reasonable part of
the cost of future major expansion. Each department is
to cover all its costs at all times and REGIDESO will
strive to obtain at the earliest possible date but in
arny event not later than 1972 a rate of return of at
least 6% on each of its operations independently, as
well as on its overall operation. Rates are to be
reviewed at the end of 1967, and every two years
thereafter, to establish conformance with the fore-
going (paragraph 77).
c) The operations of REGIDESO would be improved to substan-
tially reduce the amount of non-revenue water and to im-
prove collections of current accounts. If improvements
satisfactory to IDA are not realized within a period of
one year from date of signing of the Credit Agreement,
a qualified and experienced administrator would be
employed by REGIDESO to augment the present staff for
the purpose of giving special attention to these
problems. The present senior staff of REGIDESO would
also be immediately augmented by a qualified engineer.
All key posts would be served at all times by experienced,
qualified staff. Since local personnel with these quali-
fications are not presently available, recruitment of
qualified external personnel to fill vacancies will be
continued for such time as REGIDESO and IDA agree (para-
graphs 11 - 14).



- 20 -
d) A complete physical inventory will be made of all fixed
assets, and the book value of each asset will be adjusted
where necessary. Because REGIDESO will need specialized
assistance in undertaking the revaluation, it has been
agreed that the work of inventory and revaluation will
be completed within one year of the date of arrival of
the staff engineer referred to in (c) above (paragraph
45). It was also agreed that until January 1, 1970 for
the purpose of establishing rates, depreciation will be
charged on the value of assets prevailing prior to the
revaluation (paragraph 75).
e) The government has undertaken to provide college and
technical training abroad in engineering and business
administration for high school graduates who, on return,
could be employed by REGIDESO. At least two students
are to be sent for training in the first year with
others to follow in successive years until the needs
of REGIDESO have been met (paragraph 11).
f) The government has undertaken to give all possible
assistance to REGIDESO in the implementation of the
project, including obtaining any land or right-of-
way required for the project, and has agreed not to
take any action which would interfere with the
successful operation of REGIDESO or with the per-
formance of obligations undertaken by REGIDESO with
IDA (paragraphs 6, 16 and 65).
g)  REGIDESO would not be required to provide any services
or construct any facilities unless adequate provision
is made to compensate REGIDESO for all costs incurred
(paragraph 17).
h) The debt/equity ratio for REGIDESO would never exceed
40:60 except as IDA and REGIDESO may otherwise agree
(paragraphs 67 and 78).
i) REGIDESO has agreed that, prior to the date on which
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall terminate in accord-
ance with its terms, it will not undertake any major
works not included in the project, except to the extent
that any such works are undertaken pursuant to a sound
financial plan approved by the Association. The term
"major work" means any work involving an investment ex-
ceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of two hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000) (paragraphs 67 and 78).



- 21 -
J) Separate accounts are to be maintained for water and
power operations and the accounts of REGIDESO will be
audited in a manner satisfactory to IDA (paragraphs 47
and 48).
k)  The government has agreed to promptly pall all current
bills covering water, electricity, and any other services
provided by REGIDESO and to settle all overdue accounts
within 18 months. Furthermore, the government agreed to
exercise all possible pressure upon the city for a prompt
settlement of all outstanding accounts. (Paragraph 41).
1) Consulting engineers satisfactory to IDA would prepare
the final design of the project and supervise its con-
struction (paragraph 61).
86.      With the above arrangements, the project provides a suitable base
for an IDA credit of U.S.$1.1 million equivalent to the Government of Burundi,
to be relent to REGIDESO for 14-1/2 years including 5 years of grace at an
interest rate of 52%.
March 8, 1966



ORGANIZATION CHART- REGIDESO, BURUNDI
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
GENERAL MANAGER
REGIDESO
l  ADMINISTFRATION                                         TECHNICAL OPERATIONS
|        ]    ~~~~WATER AND                            WATER           |     ELECTRICAL    l   l     ELECTRICITY   l   l
l  ACCOUNTING  l  X   FINANCE  l   ]  WATER TREATMENT  |               F   ~~~~~~~~~~~ELECTRICITY l
ACCOUNTl FINNC                                                                      DISTRIBUTION r
|~~~ESNE                      BILLIN                    METER REPAIR                                     CONECTON
RN   OFF-ON        W AUTER   DISTRIE(ITION |m 
CUSTOMER                                         SERVICE CONNECTIONS |                             TI
ENGINEERING MAPS|
l AND RECORDS                                                        > 
z
z
27January 1965                                                                                                     IBRD-2532 Z



ANJNEX 2
BUJUMBURA, BURUNDI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
EXISTING WATER FACILITIES
Sources
Yisumba Springs - 8 kilometers East of City
Yield = 500 m3/d (0.13 mgd) minimum  )
1300 m3/d (0.34 mgd) average &   past 10 years
Collection - Long Length of open-joint tile in
narrow isolated valley terminating
at collection house in which Filter
is located.
Ndahangwa River - 2 kilometers from City to dam. A flume extends
from dam about 500 meters to diversion gallery
where pipe to City connects.
Yield - Up to 7700 m3/d (2.7 mgd) average
REGIDESO authorized 19,000 m3/d.
Treatment
Spring water - Iron removal filter
River water - Coagulation, sedimentation, filtration. Plant consists
of 2 parts, each has 2 flocculation basins, 2 sedimen-
tation basins and 2 filters. Filters are backwashed
with air and water. Designed Capacity = 5,800 m3/d;
Operated at up to 7700 m3/d.
Disinfection
Ozonization Plant - Operated for a number of years but now abandoned
because of operating problems and cost of
maintenance.
Chlorination      - High test hypochlorite is used by batch mixing
and feeding to the plant effluent. Hypochlorite
imported in 50 lb. drums from the U.S.A. Delivery
time less than 3 months.
February 3, 1966



BUJUMBURA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
BUJUMBURA WATER SYSTEM
Number of New Water Connections by Year
Meters         Length         Length
in            of              of
Years        Connections       Consumers       Service        System       Connections        Fire Hydrants
meters          meters
1953            1,490                                         83,177         29,112
1957            3,710            2,834          2,834        121,566         58,364
1960            3,926            3,225          3,225        159,907         62,498
1961            3,930            3,322          3,322        163,792         62,698
1962            3,941            3,340          3,340        164,396         63,012
1963            3,959            3,361          3,359        165,228         63,329              220
1964            3,976            3,384          3,384        165,367         63,759              220
January 20, 1966



ANNEX 4
BUJUMBURA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
WATER CONSUMPTION BY TYPES OF USER
Hotels,
Street                   Commercial,
Dwellings    Dwellings     Fountains,     Public       Offices,                  Total
+75 m2        - 75 m      Wash-houses     Depts,      Schools     Industry   Consump
%            23            5.7          19.5           19          22.4        10.4
1959
Consumption     412,000       103,617      350,000       341,000     402,000      187,000     1,795,617
%             24.8         7            22.2           14          21.6        10.4
1960
Consumption      470,793      133,000      422,000       266,000     410,000      197,000     1,898,793
%             24           7.7          21.9           18.3       16.5         11.6
1963
Consumption     527,972       169,378      482,200       363,211     403,600      257,450     2,203,811
SOURCE:  9    3  From IBM and Records - WHO Consultant.
1963  - 4,000 cards analyzed by WHO Consultant.
January 20, 1966



ANNEX 5
BUJUYIBURA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water Service Charges and Rates
Bujumbura, Burundi
Meter Cost
The cost of the meter is recovered from the customer by levying a charge
each two months sufficient to retire the cost of the meter in five years. The
meter is the property of REGIDESO which continues to collect the meter charge
after five years, and maintains all meters at its expense.
Connection Charge
The charges for installing the meter and 5m. of pipe are as follows:
BF 5,040 for 0 1" pipe, BF 5,760 for 0 12" pipe and BF 6,480 for 0 2" pipe.
plus
BF 160/meter of main pipe
Water Rates
The price at which the water is sold is fixed as follows:
Per m3
1. Dwellings up to 75 sq.m. in area
(a) from 1 to 5 m3/month                             BF  4.40
(b) above 5 m3/month                                     7.00
2.  Dwellings up to 75 sq.m. in area with large
families (4 or more children)
(a) from 1 to 5 m3/month                                 4.00
(b) above 5 m3/month                                     7.00
3. Dwellings larger than 75 sq.m. in area                    8.00
4. Dwellings larger than 75 sq.m. in area
occupied by large families                               7.00
5. Hotels, business premises, offices and
Government Departments                                   8.00
6. Industrial consumers
(a) from 1 to 50 m3/month                                8.00
(b) above 50 m3/month                                    7.50
7. Swimming Pools
(a) For the use of the public                            3.00
(b) Others                                               4.00
There are no penalties or rebates for postponed or accelerated payment.
For public taps payment is made, in accordance with Tariff 5, at the rate of
BF 8.00 per m).
There are no special tariffs beyond those listed above, which have been
in force since March 1963. The tariff system itself dates back to 1949.
January 19, 1966



BUWUMBURA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                               ANNEX 6
REGIDESO
Income Statements
(BF)
Unaudited
1961               1962              1963               1964
Water Produced i3 *                               2,490,245           2,584,231        3,165,461          3,395,907
Non-Revenue Water m3                                461,517             755,790          795,687          1,527,353
Non-Revenue Water %                                   18.5               29.3             25.1               45.0
Water Sold:
Bujumbura   m3                                 1,910,037           1,708,148        2,255,987          1,761,439
Kitega      m3                                   118,691             120,293          113,787            107,115
Total                                          2,028,728           1,828,1441       2,369,774          1,868,554
Power Sold  kwh*                                 13,722,324          12,421,438       13,172,594         12,316,749
Average Water Rate   BF/m3                             6.14               5.70              7.00             7.45
Average Water Cost before Depreciation   BF/r3         3.22               3.58             3.22              4.10
Average Gross Profit on Water   BF/m3                  2.92               2.12             3.78              3.35
Average Net Profit on Water
after Depreciation  BF/m3                           1.01               0.21             1.87              1.19
I. Water
Income from Sales
Bujumbura                                  11,519,426           9,458,783       15,694,847         13,089,850
Kitega                                        933 398             957 ,406         898,439            846 247
Total Income                            12,452,T824         TC416T189        lb,593,286         13,936,097
Expenses:
Bujumbura -
Operating Costs
Production Costs                        2,964,528          1,593,113         1,785,018            925,310
Distribution Costs                        693 929             243 413          600 020            376 377
Total Operating Costs                     3,650r,457          1,o36 526        2,385,030          1,301,687
Administration and General                2,559,462          4,262,169         4,762,108          5,927,026
Total Cost: Bujumbura                       6,217,919           6,098,695        7,147,186          7,228,713
Kitega -
Operating Costs                             131,975             177,114           56,606             57,795
Administration and Oeneral                  179,312             270,346          423,309            366,361
Total Cost:  Kitega                           311,287             447,460          479,995            424,156
Total txpevp.i                                 6,529,206           6,546,155        7,621,181          7,652,869
GROSS PROFIT WATER                    5,923,618           3,870,034        8,966,105          6,283,228
Depreciation                                   3,868,364           3,483,473        4,529,456          4,054,280
NET PROFIT WATER                      2,055,254             386,561        4,436,649          2,228,948
II. POWER
Income from Sales                             26,748,426          24,036,369       24,493,718         344*Q9,405
Expenses                                      18,968,633          18,496,088       19,281,830         25,915,775
GROSS PROFIT POWER                    7,779,793           5,540,281        5,211,888          8,173,630
Depreciation                                   6,679,738           6,015,124        7,820,881          7,327,650
NET PROFIT POWER                      1,100,055            (474,843)      (2,608,993)           845,980
III. OTHER
Other Income                                   l1,144,640            402,275        3,998,240          1,277,047
Allowance for Bad Debts                          132,000                -           6,103,717          3,986,535
Depreciation Housing                             348,774             313,993          408,664            365,440
NET PROFIT OTHER                        663,866              88,282       (2,514,1411)       (3,074,928)
NET PROFIT REGIDESO                               3,819,175                -            (686,485)             -
Bujumbura and Kitega.
December 15, 1965



BUJIWMBURA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                              ANNEX 7
REGIDESO
Balance Sheets
(BF)
Unaudited
As at December 31                                    1961              1962               1963              1964
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash, Bank                                     6,079,316          8,146,210         37,785,527        29,947,123
Short-term Treasury Notes                     46,500,000         28,000,000             -                 _
Accounts Receivable from Sales                 9,943,788         14,548,551         31,603,367        h3,58Lh,24
Less: Allowance for Bad Debts                    556 121             -               6 103,717        10,090,252
Net Receivable From Sales                   9,307s667                            251499,77         33,493:996
Other Accounts Receivable                      3,548,398          1,835,793         3,076,593          6,127,355
Accounts Receivable from REGIDESO, Rwanda      4,522,157          2,983,662          2,6L0,109         2,60o,l09
Inventories                                   34,591,987         22,938,O4o         27,479,553        3h,808,756
Other                                          3,785,09b             -                  -                 _
Total Current Assets                     108,414,619         78,452,256        96,481,432        107,367,339
Fixed Assets
Water                                         97,450,766        100,883,005        101,357,715       101,357,715
Less: Depreciation                            25 666 322         29 149 795        33 679 251         37 733,531
Net                                       71,7d4,444         71,733I210        67:670 464         63:624,1d4
Power                                        168,318,477        174,605,853       174,954,815        1750.45,96L
Less: Depreciation                            44 319,593         50 334 717        58 155 598         65 L83 2h8
Net                                      123,9kT'TM 1247271!136              116s799'217        109s6T2s71T
Housing                                        8,747,518          9,152,495          9,135,857         9,135,857
Less: Depreciation                             2 313 629          2 627 622         3 036 286          3 401 726
Net                        6 433soo9          ~~~~~~~~~~6,524,873  b,U99,571         7311
Net                                        64?7                                                     !3t3
Total Net Fixed Assets                   202,217,217        202,529,219       190,577,252        179,021,031
TOTAL ASSETS                          310,631,836        280,981475         287,o58,684       286,388,370
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                              1,327,192           2,535,396          6,360,715         4,835,009
Customer Deposits                             5,015,840           5,329,346          5,661,278         5,862,672
Other                                           769,537             402,872            466,689           630,296
Payable to REGIDESO, Rwanda                  19,235,607               -                156,1i1           166,511
Total Current Liabilities                26,348,176           8,267,614         12,644,823        11,494,488
Due to Government                             7,847,153               -                 -                480,021
Equity
Capital                                     272,421,952         272,713,861        274,413,861       274,413,861
Reserves                                        195,380               -                 -                 _
Profit for Year                               3,819,175               -                 -                 _
Total Equity                            276,436,507         272,713,861        274,413,861       274,413,861
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY         310,631,836         280,981,105        287,058,684       286,388,370
Current Ratio                                     4.1:1               9.5:1              7.6:1             9-3:1
December 15, 1965



ANNEX 8
Page 1
BUJUMBURA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Comments on Financial Statements 1961-1964
1.       The financial statements are presented to reflect as far as possible
the effective economic situation of REGIDESO. Some adjustments have been
made for clarity in presentation, the most important of which consisted in
separating the results of water, powTer and other in the income statements.
Financial statements prior to 1961 Twere not available. The statements for
1964 have not yet been audited.
Income Statements
2.       The quantities indicated under water sold and power sold reflect
the billings made in the respective years. The decline of both power and
water sold in 1962 is not only the result of the exodus Df Europeans, but
also of a lag in billing after independence. On the other hand, sales in
1963 include an undetermined amount of bills pertaining to consumption in
1962. Consequent variations in income from sales do not, therefore, con-
vey a very truthful picture.
3.       The increase in cost of water in 1963 is explained by some major
repairs required during the independence year 1962.
4.       Depreciation, designated as the "renewal fund" in the laws of
REGIDESO has generally been calculated at 4% on gross investments. This
figure is relatively high and mainly responsible for the considerable cash
amounts of REGIDESO. In 1962, the full amount of depreciation was not
made to show a balanced profit and loss account; the amount not charged
was added to the depreciation in 1963.
5.       Other income includes profits on water and pawer connections,
installations of transformers to private parties, etc., and interest on
funds placed with local banks.
6.       Allowance for bad debts in 1961 and prior years did not normally
exceed 1% of yearly sales and were frequently even lower than that figure.
In 1962 this picture changed considerably but no allowances were made for
the increase in bad debts. The entire profit of 1963 (excluding depreci-
ation referring to 1962) and 1964 has been reserved against bad debts.
Balance Sheets
7.       During the Belgian administration of the Congo and Rwanda-Urundi,
the common water and power authority was required to invest its impDrtant
cash reserves in short-term treasury notes. After independence of the
Congo, a portion of these notes were turned over to REGIDESO Rwanda-Urundi.
As separate accounts and financial statements were kept for Rwanda and
Urundi, each one showed the total amount of the notes in current assets



ANNEX 8
Page 2
and the part belonging to the other in current liabilities. After inde-
pendence of Rwanda and Burundi, a general clearing of accounts took place,
at which time the Banque du Royaume of Burundi received BF 28 million in
treasury notes, representing the share of REGIDESO Burundi. Subsequently,
in 1963 the notes were remitted to REGIDESO which converted them into cash.
8.       Accounts receivable from sales were equivalent to about 3 months
of sales in 1961 but rose sharply after independence. In 1964 they repre-
sented already more than 10 months but are presently estimated to taper off.
9.       Inventories are considered as *being appropriate and the amount
shown in the balance sheet a fair value.
10.      The gross value of fixed assets as shown in 1961 are amounts given
to REGIDESO by the former Belgian power and water authority for the Congo
and Rwanda-Urundi. There has been no cornplete physical inventory made
since that tirne, nor has there been any attempt made to assess the real
value of the assets. However, the amounts shown appear to be rather con-
servative. Depreciation amounting to more than 30% of gross fixed assets
seems to be adequate.
11.      The amounts shown in "capital" represent the total outlays made
by the extraordinary budget toward financing of fixed assets. The capital
is, therefore, wholly owned by the state of Burundi.
12.      The current ratio is favorable, mainly as a result of the large
cash amounts owned by REGIDESO.
February 3, 1966



BUJUMBURA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
POPULATION AND WATER CONSUMPTION PROJECTIONS
Population                       Annual                                  3                 Annual
6% Increase/Yr.                  Consumption           %                  m                Production
1000              L/c/d         'o00 m3         Unaccounted 3/      Unaccounted 3/       '000 m3
1963             60              103           2,255             24                    720               2,975
1964             63.6             76           1,761             44                  1,410               3,171
1965             67.4             80           1,980             37                  1,170               3,150
1966             71               82           2,140             32                  1,Olo               3,150 1/
1967             75.3             81           2,236             29                    914               3,150
1968             79.8             79           2,300             27                    850               3,150
1969             84.2             97           3,000             25                  1,000               4,000  2/
1970             89.3            115           3,750             24                  1,184               4,934  -
1971             94.7            119           4,110             23                  1,227               5,337
1972            100.4            122           4,440             22                  1,252               5,692
1973            106.4            125           4,795             21                  1,274               6,069
1974            112.8            127           5,175             20                  1,293               6,468
1975            119.6            129           5,590             20                  1,397               6,987
1976            126.8            131           6,035             20                  1,508               7,543
1977            134.4            132           6,515             20                  1,628               8,143   2/
1978            142.5            135           7,021             20                  1,755               8,776   -
2   3,150,000 m3/yr. yield assumed from present sources.
4y New source, First Stage 14,400 m3/d = 5,256,000 m3/yr.
Total old and new sources ir 9,000 +14,400 - 23,400 m3/d   8,541 m3/yr.
/ "Unaccounted-for water" is referred to elsewhere in this report as "non-revenue water".
January 19, 1966



8                       I   IFI                   II         I8
BUJUMBURA, BURUNDI
7    WATER PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION                         -              7
PROJECT IONS                                                     / ,
6            _6
L_            _ S                                                    X _   ,    _   5      r
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" 
E  g   ,o ',o'      z
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01U
m            jPRODUCTION FROM REGIDESO RECORDS.               lo,  o                       0
u      4 4    PROJECTION FROM 1963 BASED ON                                         4 .
LL          / CONSUMPTION PROJECTION 'B" USING         /                                   c
O             30% UNACCOUNTED-FOR WATER BEING         /ONSUMPTION ESTIMATE                 I
cn            GRADUALLY REDUCED TO 20% BY 1974                     USED FOR FINANCIAL
_                                                                                          m
_j     3                                                                            3       mJ 33
CONSUMPTION ESTIMATE BASED    m
ON PROJECTION OF PREVIOUS     (
DEMAND FROM 1956-1963
_o 00 Ovo CONSUMPTION BASED ON
I  _                                             -l                        I REGIDESO RECORDS
0  L  I  I   I        i     I                                                0             D
'56 '57 '58 '59 '60 '61 '62 '63 '64 '65 '66 '67 '68 '69 '70 '71 '72 '73 '74 '75 '76        Z
YEAR                                                  x
Januory 1966                                                                                 IBRD- 2892 O



BUJUMBURA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION COSTS BY YEAR
in lOOOs
87.5 BF = $1.00
1966                1967                1968                1969                     Total                     Total
WIORKS                                Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local    Foreign     Foreign     Local & Foreign
BF        BF        BF        lF        BF        BF        BF        BF        BF        BF       -US               BF
Intake                                  _         -       1,980     2,h50     5,939     7,988       -        -        7,919    l0,438      119.291        18,357
Treatment                               _         -       3,000     8,750     4,46o    11,o0o     1,465     2,300     8,925    22,050      252.000        30,975
Storage Pumps & Distribution            -         -       5,075    14,306     7,175    12,250     1,907     3,675    14,157    30,231      345.497        44,388
llestrical Facilities & Squipent       300       100      2,000     3,356       400      -          362      -        3,062     3,456       39.497         6,518
300       100     12,055    28,862    17,974    31,238     3,734     5,975    34,063    66,175      756.285       100,238
Contingencies                            -         -        -        -        2,047     7,500     3,273     7,500     5,320    15,000      171,429        20,320
300       100     12,055    28,862    20,021    38,738     7,007    13,475    39,383    81,175      927.714       120,558
Engineering and Management             880     2,625       1,500    5,810     1,500     5,810       487       830     4,367    15,075       172.286       19,142
1,180     2,725     13,555    34,672    21,521    44,548     7,494    14,305    43,750    96,250    1,100.000       140,000
Interest during Construction            W         -       l,lW      -        3,300      -        5tooo      -        9.500      _                         9-$U
1,280     2,725     14,655    34,672    24,821    44,548    12,494    14,305    53,250    96,250    1,100,000       149,5U0
February 3, 1966



BUJUMBURA, BURUNDI: WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ACTIVITY CONTROL SCHEDULE
I
Seek other finoncing or drop project
distribution  l                              |             oir t
71 Award contract >0Mobilize  Lay pipe   
IDA Decision
.  favoroble                    2   Procure and deliver pipe
Sign
Legal   .                                  Procure treatment equipment and deliver
changes
Arrange                     ete    design  Advertise and award contract and complete concrete work  Install equipment  Place filter  es,, Operate
engineering       congntract\entreotment                  Taeworks_
for~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ramn workse                                                  medias/ 
engineering
.       ~~~Design                T       Deliver low lift pump uis 0
l         ~~~~~Activity        intoke  \ll_                                                   
Actleted                     Advertise and award intake  Mobilize        Lay pipe       Install
Restraint
. ------ FloatiI
........  Float                      Intoke   pipe  proure   and   deliver  >6  
Jonuary 1966                                                                                                                        IBRD-2893 D
|A|S|OT|N|D|J| F MA      M        A SO ND          FM AM J J A SO ND             J FM AM       J J A S|oT N I D i J| F    iM A  I M    r
1965                   1 966                             1 967                            1 968                       1 969       x



BUJUMBURA WATER SUIPPLY FROJECT                                                                  ANNEX 11
REGIDESO
INCOhW STATSM4ENT FORECASTS
(in '000 BP)
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
1965          1966          1967          1968          1969          1970          1971          1972          1973
Bajonb..a
Water Produced     '000 e3                                 3,150         3,150        3,150         3,150         L,000         1,934.        5,337          5,692         6,o69
N.n-Reven.e 'dater  000 m3                                 1,170         1,010          911           650         1,000         1,181          1,227         1,252         1,271
Water Said         '000 m3                                 1,980         2,110         2,236        2,300         3,OD0         3,750         1,110          4,110         1,795
Kitega
Water Sold         .000 a,3                                  120           120          120           120           120            120           120           120           120
Total Water Sold                                        2,100         2,260         2,356         2,0.0         3,120         3,870         6,230         1,560         1.915
Av .rage water Rate  BF/n3                                  7.50          7.50          7.50          7.50          7.50          9.00          9.00          9.00          9.00
Power Prodoced      '000 koWh                             11,200        15,450        16,220       17,030        17,890         18,780        19,720        20,710        21,750
PM.er Sold          1000 kwh                              12,800        13,110       11,110        11,820        15,560        16,310         17,160        19,020        18,920
Average Power Rate  BF/kwh                                  3.74         3.60          3.60         3.60           3.60          3.60           3.60          3.70          3.70
WATER
Incoo From Sales
Bojuobara                                               lh,850         16,tO5        16,770        17,250        22,500        33,750        36,990         39,960        13,155
Kitega                                                      900           900            900           900          900         i-B             18           10,090        1. 090
Total Incona                                          15,750        16,950        17,670        18,150        23,400        31,630         38,070       11,00          .1,4,235
Bujumnbura:
Producti.o Costs                                         1,250           2,425        2,425         2,125         3,175         1,500         4,890         5,090          5,300
Distributioan Costs                                         750           875           920            9170       1.020         1,075          1,130         1,190         1,?50
Total Expenoes                                         2,00          3,300         3,315         3,395         4,195         5,575         6,020          6,280         1,'550
Ad~iis5t-ative and General Cost.                            9,500          8,500        9,000         9,900        11,385        11,955         12,555        13,185        13,915
Total Operating Coot -   jujobu-a                     11,500         11,800        12,315        13,295        15,580        17,530        18,575        19,165        20,395
Eitego,
Prodactiso and Distribution Coots                           60             60            60            60            60            60            60             60            60
Ad.nisltratine and General Costs                           100            120           420           120           130           h30            110           11 o           10
Total Operating Coot -Kitega                            160            180           180           180           190           190            500           500           500
Total Operatinp Costs                                    11,960         12,280       12,825        13,775        16,070        18,020         19,075        19,965        20,995
Interest on Loan                                           -              -             -             -             -           5,eoh          5,192         L,777         4,339
Allowance for Had Debts                                   2,363         2,119         1,767         1.815         2.106         3,135         3,126          3,691         3,961
Gross Profit - Water                                   1,427          2,551         3,078         2,560         5,221         8,381        10,377        12,601.       15,020
Less: Oepre.iatiOo                                       2,280          2,280         2,280         2,280         2,280         5,615         5,679          5,713o        5,717
RET PRoFIT WATER                                        (853)           271          798           280          2,911         2,736        1, 69          6,8991        9,273
POWER
Incomv froe Sale.                                         17,850         18,381        50,796        53,352        56,016        58,821        61,776         66,671        70,005.L
Exp-oses                                                  31,000         36,308        38,117        10,021        10,041        11,133        16,312         1'8.669       51,113
WIa-co for Bad Debts                                      7.065         I..2 95,       5,            5.260        5..jc4.        5.291         5,56          6.001         6,300
Orso  Profit - Power                                   9,785          6,122         7,671        8,071          8,931         9,397         9,871        12,001        12,591
Less; Depreci.tion                                          7,006         7,366         7,366         7,126         7,486          7,516         7,606         7,666         7,726
NET PIROFIT fLOdIR                                     2,779         (1,211)          308           615         1,11.         1,851         2,268         1,338         1,665
OTHER
Iocoem from Timo Deposit,                                   1,000          1,100         1,600         1,200         1,000         1,000         1,200         1,600         2,200
Other Inco-a                                                 100            100           100           100           100           100           100            100           600D
Leos. DepreoltRo- Housong                                    365            4.20          420           420           120           120           120            420           h21
RET PROFIT OTRiER                                     1,035          1,380         1,580         1,180           980           980          1,180         1,580         2,110
NET PROFIT REOIDESO                                    2,961           107          2,68         2,1S          532       ~      j7~j                            ~      1.11
Retur 00 Average Ret Floed Assets in Operation
- S (RCIDESOo)                                               1.7            0.2           1.6           1.3            2.1           3.8           1.8           6.6           8.1
Re tan an Average Not Fixed Assets in Operation
- % (Watter Departownt)                                       -             0.5           1.4           0.5            2.3          4.0            5.1           6.1           7.3
Rebo.rn on Average Ret Floed Assets in Operation
- % (Power Departmnot)                                       2.5             -            0.3           0.7           1..6           2.2           2.9           6.1           7.5
Ratio of Total Operating Coot Plus Depreciation to
Total Cash Revenues - % (RIfGIoESO)                           95            99             96            97            93            87            86            82            81
Ratio of Operating Coat P1us Depreciatian t.
Cash Reenue, - % (Wdater Depetmudnt)                         106            98             95            98           86             75            71            69            66
Februaery 3, 1966



BUJUMBURA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
REGIDESO
SOURCES AND REQUIREMENTS OF FUNDS FORECASTS
(in '000 BF)
Total Con-
struction Period
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31                           1965               1966        1967        1968        1969               1966-1969                 1970        1971       1972        1973
I . SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net Profit                                   2,961                407       2,686       2,105       5,372               10,570                   5,567       8,146     12,809      16,338
Depreciation                                 9,651              10,066     10,066      10,126      10,186               4o,444                  13,611      13,705     13,799      13,893
Interest                                      -__---                                                                      -                      5, 291,    5 .192      4,777       4,339
Total Funds Generated                  12,612              10,473     12,752      12,231      15,558               51,014                  24,472      27,043      31,385     34,550
Proceeds from IDA Credit                      -                  2,725      34,672     44,548      lh,305               96,250                    _     -                 -          -
Increase in Current Liabilities               -                    200        200         200         300                  900                     250         250         300        300
Decrease in Current Assets (excluding Cash)  9,438               4,832      3,100        -           -                   7,932                               ______
TOTAL SOURCES                           22,050             18,230     50,724      56,979      30,163               156,096                  24,722     27,293      31,685      34,850
II. REQUIREMENT OF FUNDS
Proposed Project
Foreign Cost                                -                  2,725     34,672      hh,548      1h,305                96,250                    -          -           -           -
Local Cost                                                     1,180     13,555      21,521       7,494               43,750
Capitalized Interest                                             100       1,100      3,300       5,000                 9,500
Total Project Cost                        -                 4,005      49,327     69,369      26,799               149,500
Power Generators                             9,000                -           -          -           -
Other Capital Expenditures                   1,406                -          1,500      1,500       1,500                 4,500                   3,000      3,000       3,000       3,000
Interest on Loan                              _                   _           _          _           _                                            5, 294     5,192       L,777       4,339
Amortization of Loan                          -                   -_____                                                                            -        7.450       7.865       8.303
Total Debt Service                                 -                                -                -                                        5,29h    12,642      12,642      12,642
Increase in Cumrt Assets (excluding Cash)     -                   -           -           709       7,566                 8,275                   4,464      2,507       2,913       2,589
Decreaae in Current Liabilities             14.175               -           -           -          _
TOTAL REQUIREBSPES                      14,881              4,005      50,827      71,578     35,865               162,275                   12,758     18,149     18,555      18,231
Cash Beginning of Year                       29,947             37,116      51,341     51,238      36,639                  -                      30,937    42,901      52,014      65,175
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                       7,169              1L,225        (103)    (114,599)   (5,702)               (6,179)                  11,96h     9,144      13,130      16,619
Cash End of Year                            37,116              51,341      51,238      36,639     30,937                30,937                   42,901     52,0h5      65,175     81,79k
Debt Service Coverage (tines)                  -                 105:1      11.6:1       3.7:1       3.1,1                 -                       4.6         2.1        2.5        2.7
February 3, 1966



BUJUMBURA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
REOTCDESO
BALANCE SHEET FORECASTS
(in '000 BF)
YEAR ENDED DECEiBER 31                                        1965          1966           1967          1968           1969          1970           1971          1972          1973
I.  ASSETS
Cash (for major part placed on Time
Deposits under 1 year's term)                      37,116        51,341        51,238         36,639        30,937         42,901        52,045         65,175        81,794
Accounts Receivable Sales                                43,500        27,223         22,822        23,83h         26,472        31,218        33,282         35,904        38,079
Less: Allowance for Bad Debts                            19 518         8,073          6 772         7 075          7 147         8 429         8 986          9 695        10 281
Net Accounts Receivable SaLes                      219,150                     167
Other Accounts Receivable                                 9,000         9,000          9,000         9,000          9,000         9,000          9,000         9,000          9,000
Inventories                                              35,000        35,000         35,000        35,000         40,000        l1,000        12,000         43,000         Lh4,000
Total Current Assets                              105,098       11L,491       111,288         97,398        99,262        115,690       127,341        143,384       162,592
Installations Water                                     101,400       101,400        101,400       101,400        250,900       252,400        253,900       255,400        256,900
Less: Depreciation                                       4o,013        42,293        L4 573         L6 853         49 133        54,778         60,457        66 170         71 917
Net Installations Water                            61,3c77       509,177                                                  197,622       193,    3
InstalLations Power                                     184,146       18L,146        185,646       187,1h6        188,646       l90,146        191,646       193,146        194,646
Less: Depreciation                                       72 h89        79,855         87 221        94, 67        102 133       109 679        117,285       124, 951       132 677
Net Installations Power                           i   67        10,291                        9                                          74,3616,
Housing                                                  10,500        10,500         10,500        10,500         10,500        10,500         10,500        10,500         10,500
Less: Depreciation                                        3 767         4, 187         4, 607        5 027          5 U47         5 867          6 287         6,707          7 127
Net Housing                                         6:733         6,313          5-i3573                 4,633                                           3,793          3:373
Total Net Fixed Assets in Operation                     179,777       169,711        161,145       152,519        293,333       282,722        272,017       261,218        250,325
Work in Progress                                           -            4,005         53,332       122,701           -              -             -              -             -
Total Net Fixed Assets                            179,777       173,716        214,477       275,220        293,333       282,722        272,017       261,218        250,325
TOTAL ASSETS                                      284,875       288,207        325,765       372,618        392,595      398,412         399,358       404,602        412,917
II.  LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Accounts Payable                                          1,500          1,600         1,700         1,800          1,900         2,000          2,100          2,200         2,300
Deposits                                                  5,500         5,600          5,700          5,800         6,000          6,150         6,300          6,500         6,700
Other                                                       500           500            500           500            500           500            500            500           500
Project Loan Maturing within 1 year                        -              _             -             -              _             7,450         7,865          8,303         8,767
Total Current Liabilities                           7,500         7,700          7,900         8,100          8,400        16,100         16,765         17,503        18,267
Project Loan                                               -             2,725        37,397        81,965         96,250         88,800        80,935         72,632        63,865
Capital                                                 274,41L        271,41,       27h,41l        27L,41L       274,4114       27h,414       27h,hlih       274,41l1      271, h411
Accumulated Profits                                       2,961         3,368          6,054          8,159        13,531         19,098        27,24L         ho,o53        56,371
Total Equity                                      277,375       277,782        280,h68       282,573        287,945       293,512        301,658       31h,467        330,785
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                      284,875       288,207        325,765       372,615        392,595        398,h12       399,358        ho0,602       412,917
Current Ratio Including Inventory                       Lu.O:1         18.9:1        1L.1:1         12.0:1        11.8:1          7.2:1        7.6:1           8.2:1          8.9:1
Current Ratio Excluding Inventory                        9.3:1         10.3:1         9.7:1          7.7:1         7.1:1          4.6:1        5.1:1           5.7:1          6.5:1
Debt/Equity Ratio                                         -             1:99         12:58           22:78          25:75         23:77         21:79          19:81         16 8k
February 3, 1966



ANNEX 16
Page 1
BUJRMBURA WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Forecasts
1.       Water production and consumption are computed as shown in Annexes
9 and 10. 1/ Water production, distribution, administrative and general
costs are derived from the following basis:
a)  Costs for 1965 are derived from REGIDESO's accounts
over the first 6 months of that year.
b) It is likely that an estimated amount of BF 1,000,000
should have been posted as production costs instead of
administrative and general costs. This estimated ad-
justment has been made starting in 1966.
c) Especially production and administrative costs have
increased considerably due to the devaluation Df the
Burundi Franc from BF 50.00 to BF 87.50 for U.S.$l.
Production costs include cost for imported chemicals,
etc., administrative and general costs include
salaries of expatriate staff. Especially the last
increased substantially due to the high foreign ex-
change component (salaries, home leave travel, etc.)
and due to the fact that REGIDESO absorbed the in-
crease in income taxes due on the salaries of the
expatriate staff, which, when expressed in local
currency, increased considerably.
d) After increasing production costs in 1966 by 1 million
(see l(b) above) and 175,000 because 1965 did nDt re-
flect a full year after devaluation, these costs are
maintained unchanged until production of water starts
to increase at completion of the project. Production
costs thereafter increase roughly in proportion with
increase in water production.
e) Distribution costs are increased by 5% p.a.
f) Administrative and general costs are maintained at
8.5 million in 1966, equal to the level of 1965 (after
deduction of 1 million, see l(b) ), as it is expected
that any increase will be compensated t a decrease
1/ The water rate would remain at a constant average of BF 7.50/m3 up to
1969 and be increased with 20% to BF 9.00/m3 starting 1970.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
in salary costs after the departure of an expatriate
officer, temporarily employed in the collections and
billing section. An estimated 500,000 has been added
in 1967. An increase of 10% in 1968 and 15% in 1969
have been assumed when new local staff will enter the
service of REGIDESO. Starting in 1970 a yearly in-
crease of 5% has been assumed.
2.       The increase in power consumption is estimated at 5% per year
and the power rate would be maintained at its present level of BF 3.60/kwh.i/
Power production necessary to cover the expected consumption assumes a 13%
loss. Average cost of production of power would be BF 3.35/kwh (assuming
a further increase of about 10% in the present bulk rate of power from
Bukavu of BF 1.30/kwh) and is expected to remain constant.
3.       Depreciation would be maintained at a straight-line rate of 4%
for fixed assets in the power department and housing. Fixed assets in
the water department would be depreciated at the rate of 2.25% from 1965
on. Depreciation is calculated on the gross fixed assets at the beginning
of the year.
4.       Allowance for bad debts is assumed to decrease as follows:
1965           -   15% 2/
1966           -   12.5% -
1967 and 1968  -   10%   2/
from 1969 on        -    9%
The amounts are written-off in the same year in which the allowance is made.
5.       The cash figures in the balance sheet include a certain amount not
required for the carrying out of current operations. This amount is presumed
to be placed in Time Deposits under 1 year's term, yielding a yearly interest
of 4%. The amounts referred to are as follows:
in '000 BF
1965        25,000
1966        35,000
1967        40,ooo
1968        30,000
1969        25,000
1970        25,000
1971        30,000
1972        40,000
1973        55,,000
1/ An increase of BP 0.10 has been assumed starting in 1972 in order to
earn a 6% rate of return.
2 Excluding BF 750,000 charged to the Water Department for power consumption.
(Bookkeeping transaction, not requiring a provision for bad debts).



ANNEX 16
Page 3
6.       The proposed loan of the IDA Credit proceeds from the Government
of Burundi to REGIDESO is assumed to have the following features:
Amount:                    BF 96,250,000 or U.S.$l.l million equiv.
Signature of Loan:        During first semester of 1966
Amortization:             In 20 equal semi-annual installments
including interest, beginning first
semester of 1971 and ending second
semester of 198.0.
Interest Charges:         5i%; to be paid when due but capitalized
during the construction period 1966-1969.
Disbursements:            Extending from 1966 to 1969.
7.       Accounts receivable frDm sales correspond in 1966 to 5 months and
from 1967 on to 4 months of sales.
8.       Other Capital Expenditures are assumed at 1,500 for extensions and
improvements of the Power Department starting 1967 and at 1,500 for exten-
sions and improvements of the Water Department starting 1970.
January 20, 1966



AFRICA:                                                Loke              BURUNDI
0 -kovu     9K
V                     a                >sK     a_._._._.-''        ,/~~~~~~~-.-
m7
BURUNDI/
WI -UR42D/                                0 /  ^  t  oKitega  >
BUJUMBURA
9000 KM                                     0
o   La
Tian gn;k
JANUARY 1965                                                                         IBRD- 1463



Existing water
B U R U N D I                                    /                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~transmlission mains
BURUNDI
BUJ UMBURA A4aini
EXISTING      AND   PROPOSED       WATER     SYSTEM                                           /Son-ce
am Od Flum-
Riv-rSource /            /
lOOm.3 Rnsn-oi
W ,.,
I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Lake Ton gonyiko
.-         /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<                           /
JANUARY 1965                                                                                                                          IEBRD-1462



