Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5763-YEM Type: (PM)                         RP7
DE GUZMAN,/ X32527 / H9 107/ MN_PH                                 P-5763-YEM
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 14.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
JUNE 16, 1992
This document has a resticted distribtion and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
ther official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed nitbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 - Yemeni Rial (YR1) 12.00
YR1 1.00    US$0.08
ERINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BECC        -     Basic Education Coozdination Committee
CIR         -     Country Implementation Review
DEC         -     Distance Education Center (at the ITI)
ERDC        -     Educational Research and Development
Center
FIAS        -     Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GDP         -     Gross Domestic Product
IBY         -     Industrial Bank of Yemen
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IDA         -     International Development Association
IFC         -     International Finance Corporation
IMF         -     International Monetary Fund
ITI         -     Inservice Training Institute
LCB         -     Local Competitive Bidding
MIGA        -     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOE               Ministry of Education
MTFP        -     Medium-Term Economic Framework Paper
PDRY        -     People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
(the South; also YDR)
PIU         -     Project Implementation Unit
SAF         -     Structural Adjustment Facility
TTI         -     Teacher Training Institute
YAR               Yemen Arab Republic (the North)
YDR         -     PDRY
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-Deeember 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Government of the Republic of Yemen
Beneficiary:                   Ministry of Education
Amount:                        SDR 14.5 million (US$19.7 million equivalent)
Temrs:                         Standard IDA
Financing Plan:                IDA               US$19.7 million
Government        U      5.3 million
Total             USS25.0 million
Economic Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:        No.10473-YEM dated June 16, 1992
IBRD 23814
h This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDIM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRETORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation
on a proposed development credit to the Republic of Yemen (Yemen) for SDR 14.5
million (US$19.7 million equivalent) to help finance a project for basic
education. The credit would be extended at standard IDA terms with a maturity
of 40 years.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Introduction
2.    The Republic of Yemen (Yemen) was formed on May 22, 1990, unifying the
Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
(PDRY). The unification occurred six months ahead of schedule. A transition
period through 1991 was envisaged to complete the institutional mergers; it
was extended through 1992. The country is now making preparations for its
first multiparty elections, scheduled for November 1992. The preparation of a
common development plan has slipped due to the Gulf crisis and is now
scheduled for 1993. An IDA mission to prepare a Medium-Term Economic
Framework Paper (KTFP) visited Yemen in May 1991, and a Country Implementation
Review (CIR) took place in July 1991. The unified country faces challenges
and has the potential to meet them. Time, however, is needed to consolidate
the unification process. The recent Gulf crisis has made this process even
more difficult than anticipated.
B. The Economv
3.    B&kgound.    The unification of YAR and PDRY brought together two
markedly different economies. The economy was based largely on market
principles in YAR and on centralized planning in PDRY. The combined
population of the unified country was estimated in 1991 at about 12 million
(about 9 million in YAR and 3 million in PDRY),1 and the GNP per capita was
estimated at US$550.2 Both YAR and PDRY were designated by the UN as least
developed countries, and this is evident in the status of Yemen's social
indicators: a life expectancy of 50 years, a primary school enrollment rate of
77 percent and an adult literacy rate of 20 percent.
4.    Until the discovery and exploitation of oil in the last four years (oil
production is currently estimated at 200,000 barrels per day), Yemen depended
}/ Includin& returning migrants after the Gulf crisis.
;  Calculation by the Govenmt. based an preliminry data of the combined national accounts; under review
by MDA.



2 -
heavily on traditional agriculture, which was constrained by shortages of
arable land and water. Industry was poorly developed. A large number of
Yemenis, mainly unskilled, depended on employment in neighboring oil-exporting
countries and workers' remittances have been the main source of foreign
exchange. Unification has increased the potential for long-term development.
Yemen has modest oil reserves (estimated at 600-900 million barrels) and
substantial gas reserves (estimated at 7 trillion cubic feet), with good
prospects for additional discoveries; underexploited fisheries resources; some
tourism potential; and a dynamic, if bureaucratically encumbered, private
sector. With the recent elimination of controls on prices and production,
particularly in the southern part of the country, the economy is expected to
profit from the increased participation and dynamism of the private sector.
An enlarged market offers greater potential gains from economies of scale.
Unification has also eliminated the contested areas around the old border and
allowed for faster exploration of oil and gas in the promising area between
the two major oil fields of Marib and Shabwa.
5.    Recent Developments.  Prior to unification, both YAR and PDRY
experienced a prolonged period of high domestic demand far in excess of
domestic output. Both countries depended heavily on workers' remittances and
external assistance to close the large resource gaps. Government finances
contributed significantly to the excess demand, as the budget deficits were
persistently large, averaging almost 17 percent of GDP in YAR and 40 percent
in PDRY during 1985-89. A large part of the deficit, especially in YAR (64
percent), was financed by borrowing from the central bank, creating
inflationary pressures.3 Reflecting the strong demand, the balance of
payments current accounts showed large deficits, averaging over 11 percent of
GDP during 1985-89 for YAR and about 28 percent for PDRY. These were financed
largely by grants and concessional loans. Despite the soft terms of most
external borrowing, external debt service became increasingly burdensome. As
a result, both YAR and PDRY resorted to repeated rescheduling of part of the
debt. Furthermore, in 1988, YAR first resorted to short-term borrowing, which
had reached US$880 million by the end of 1991. The present combined debt
amounts to about US$5.5 billion, or some 118 percent of the 1991 GDP. The
1991 debt service ratio, estimated at 39 percent, is expected to decline to 32
percent in 1992 and 25 percent in 1993. Beyond this period, the debt service
ratio is expected to decline further.
6.    Transition to Full Unification.  Since unification in May 1990, the
Government has been engaged in the difficult task of merging the two
government administrations. It has decided that a transition period, until
end-1992, will be allowed before all institutions are completely integrated.
Although a substantial part of this merging has been completed, the decision-
making process and administrative functions are still not operating smoothly.
This has adversely affected the timely adoption and implementation of the
policies needed to address economic issues. Work on unifying the monetary and
financial systems, customs and tariffs, and public finances has been largely
completed. Much less progress, however, has been achieved in rationalizing
]/ Due to price controls, inflation rates in PDRY were low. Such controls, however, created general
sbortases tbroushout the country.



- 3 -
public sector enterprises, which played a relatively larger role in the
economy of PDRY
7.    The transition has entailed additional expenses.  M4any civil servants
were relocated, requiring money for moving and housing. Large expenses were
also incurred to raise the pay of the former public sector employees of PDRY
to make them equal to the salaries of former YAR employees. These expenses
have further exacerbated budget deficits that are already in urgent need of
reduction.
8.    The Imsact of the Gulf Crisis.  The already difficult economic situation
has been further aggravated by the Gulf crisis. Since August 1990, about
three quarters of a million Yemenis have returned from their places of
employment in the Gulf countries. These are mostly workers whose remittances
had been instrumental in the country's development for over a decade and a
half. The resulting reduction in remittances (including estimates of those
coming through unofficial channels), estimated at over US$1 billion per year
(about 75 percent of total remittances), has severely affected the Yemeni
economy.4 Besides workers' remittances, Yemen has also lost earnings from
trade and service arrangements with regional countries involved in the
conflict. These include such items as transportation, contracting and oil
refinery fees, estimated at close to US$400 million annually. The crisis also
adversely affected tourism, which used to gross about US$45 million per year.
With the former USSR and Eastern European donors preoccupied with their own
domestic problems, their assistance to Yemen, both in terms of grants and
concessional loans, has almost ceased. In addition, the Gulf countries
stopped their assistance programs for political reasons. As a result, Yemen
has had to cut imports by almost one-third, in nominal terms in 1990-91,
adversely affecting consumption, investment and prospects for future
development.  The returning migrants have also exacerbate. the unemployment
and underemployment problems that were already on the rise due to slow
economic growth and the large number of school leavers entering the labor
force each year. Even without the returning migrants, unemployment is
estimated at over 400,000, or 25 percen-, and represents one of the most
pressing problems for the country.
9.    Government Resgonse.  The Government has taken a number of measures to
alleviate economic difficulties. It has liberalized the foreign exchange
market, essentially abolishing foreign exchange controls and allowing the
private exchange market to operate freely. In addition to Government's
external borrowing and repayments that are converted at the official exchange
rate, only importers of three basic goods--wheat (including wheat flour), rice
and medicine--can get foreign exchange from the central bank at an effective
exchange rate of YRI 18/US$l; other importers must resort to private markets
where floating rates reflect current supply and demand. Furthermore, in order
to raise additional revenues, the Government doubled gasoline prices and
raised the price of diesel by 50 percent. A relatively restrictive budget is
being implemented and should reduce the deficit from almost 15 percent of GDP
in 1991 to about 13 percent in 1992.
t See Eoonoco Indicators (Appendlx).



- 4 -
Short-Term Outlook and Need for Stabilization
10.   Ri   of StaWfiron.   The severe macroeconomic imbalances are expected to
continue unless adequate stabilization measures are put in place. The
liberalization of the exchange market will limit imports to the level of
foreign exchange availability and, thus, reduce the external imbalance to a
manageable size. Because external assistance (partly used for budget support)
is expected to be relatively small,5 due to the Gulf crisis and to economic
difficulties in the traditional donor countries (the former USSR and Eastern
Europe), most of the deficit would be financed by money creation. As a
result, inflationary pressures will continue; the consumer price index went up
by about 44 percent in 1991 and is not expected to change substantially in
1992. At the same time, with reduced external resources, prospects for
economic growth in the near future would look rather bleak without the
implementation of adequate reforms.
11.   Stabilization Measures.  Clearly, the policy focus in this situation
should be to reduce the budget deficit to a manageable level. Simultaneously,
there is an urgent need for donors to provide adequate external resources at
highly concessional terms to cushion the contractionary impact. A
stabilization program was proposed by the May 1991 MTFP mission and included
measures for: (i) liberalizing trade and the exchange rate; (ii) raising
additional budget revenues; and (iii) curtailing the growth in budget
expenditures. Some of the measures have been adopted. For example, the
exchange rate applied to imports of the three basic commodities and for
customs valuation has been changed from the official rate of YRl 12/US$l to
YRl 18/US$1. The 1992 defense budget has been reduced from YR1 12 billion to
YRl 10.7 billion and non-interest transfers are being frozen. The Government
has indicated that a bill to legalize private foreign exchange dealers has
been approved and implementation should start shortly. Although these are
substantive measures, they still fall short of what IDA has recommended.
Taking into account these already implemented measures, a joint IDA/IMF team
is updating policy recommendations for discussion with the Government in the
near future. In the event that the Government is ready to implement a
comprehensive reform program, which is unlikely before the November 1992
elections, the team would work with the Government to design a system of
safety net measures to be concurrently implemented to mitigate the impact of
the reform on the poor.
Longer-Term Development Prospects and Constraints
12.   Long-term development prospects are reasonably good, provided measures
such as those outlined in para. 11 are implemented to stabilize the economy.
As discussed earlier, while the country's resource endowment remains
relatively limited, unification does offer better prospects for growth. The
Government is preparing the first development plan for the unified economy.
The development plan needs to take into consideration the following two
V Diabursements from loan in the ;tpeLine are estimated at US$320 million in 1992. Scheduled
aortization, however, iL about 4470 millin. Net Inflows will, therefore, be nesative unleaa some
refchedUng taken plce. An in te past few years, Yeen plans to continue debt rescheduling with the
foiwr USR; as a result, a small positive inflow could be achieved.



- 5 -
factors: (i) Yemen has a large, currently underemployed, fast-growing,
unskilled labor force; and (ii) the country cannot hope to be self-sufficient
in most goods, even at high costs, with its limited resource base. The
development strategy, therefore, will have to find a way to absorb the fast-
growing labor force, as well as earn sufficient foreign exchange to pay for
necessary imports.
13. As regards potential sources of growth, employment and foreign exchange,
it is envisaged that-the following sectors, which have the necessary
potential, would be playing key roles. The oil sector will continue to be the
most important foreign exchange earner. Whether the level of output will
increase or last far beyond this decade depends on additional discoveries,
which are being pursued. The Government estimates that oil output could reach
450,000 to 650,000 barrels per day by 1996. However, based on currently
available technical evidence, an output level of 300,000 barrels per day
appears to be more realistic. Even without substantial additional reserves,
if managed prudently, oil exports, which will last some 6-10 years at present
extraction rates, will help the country buy some time until other sources of
foreign exchange are developed. Gas reserves also offer excellent prospects,
at least for meeting internal energy needs and allowing the export of oil
products that are now consumed for power generation. This sector, however,
will not be absorbing much labor. Despite limited arable land and water,
agricultur offers some potential for additional employment and earning/saving
foreign exchange. Growth in this sector would largely depend on raising
productivity from existing production factors. Fisheries resources remain
underexploited. With the cessation of traditional agreements in the South,
suitable additional harvests can be made for domestic consumption; several
bilateral sources have also shown interest in helping to develop a modern
fisheries sector, which could raise the harvest of export species. Fisheries
can be considered another important source of employment and foreign exchange
earnings.
14.   So far, Mmtan  turing has played a rather minor role in the development
of both YAR and PDRY. With a relatively large, underemployed, fast-growing,
unskilled labor force, Yemen needs to vitalize this sector as a source of
growth, employment and foreign exchange. Labor-intensive export industries
would seem to offer the greatest potential. Services, in particular touris
which are mainly labor-intensive, represent a possible source of growth
employment and foreign exchange.   Tourism has been developed very little,
compared to its potential. The Government is also planning to revitalize the
Port of Aden and make its surrounding areas a free-trade zone. While this
seems prima facie to be a good idea, a decision to undertake the necessary
investments should only be made following a careful economic and financial
analysis. IDA has already offered assistance towards this end. Migjatio
(and thus remittances) from the mid-1970s, until late 1990, was the single
most important source of foreign exchange. Although it is difficult to
predict how the preseut regional events will play out, some Yemenis may be
able to return to their former places of employment or find new opportunities
and resume sending remittances home.



15.   Under the present policy environment, achieving growth potential remains
doubtful. Besides macro-stability discussed above, each sector faces a set of
sector-specific issues and constraints. For example, modernization of the
agricultural sector is constrained by the constriction in the recruitment of
trained personnel; the poor coordination of and lack of operating funds for
field operations; diverse control over water management; the low priority
assigned to monitoring and supervising agricultural development; and
bureaucratic inefficiencies. The new generation of IDA projects, headed by
the Agriculture Sector Management Support Project (Credit No. 2299), is
designed to tackle these constraints. Lack of alternative energy sources and
expanding agriculture have put pressure on wood biomass, soil and water
resources. IDA assistance in gas bottling and distribution, alternative
energy sources, and land and water conservation are addressing this problem.
Manufacturing is hampered by deterioration of the competitiveness and the
performance of the financial sector. The absence of coherent sectoral
policies (including privatization and deregulation), is hindering the entry of
new entrepreneurs. Measures are required to introduce more flexibility in the
interest rate structure and adjust it to positive real levels or market-
clearing rates; in addition, the Industrial Bank of Yemen (IBY), the country's
primary institutional source of industrial term finance, needs to be
restructured. Over time, measures need to be developed and implemented to
broaden financial activities and instruments, strengthen competition in the
banking sector and improve financial disclosure and enforcement mechanisms. A
recently enacted investment law may alleviate some of the difficulties, but it
is too early to pass judgement on its application. The unification of Yemen
has also interposed other challenges, such as the need to manage the reform
and eventual privatization of public enterprises in the South. In the power
sector, as in most public utilities, there is a need for (i) pricing reform,
of both input prices and electricity tariffs; (ii) an efficient rural
electrification strategy; and (iii) measures to address the organizational and
financial weaknesses of the utilities. Yemen has a limited supply of water
and a high population growth, especially in the urban areas. The water and
sewerage sector also has to overcome the strong tribal proprietary rights
regarding natural resources, particularly water.
16.   Poverty Alleviation.  As mentioned above, both parts of Yemen were UN-
designated as least-developed countries. A poverty survey is scheduled for
FY94.  Although data on absolute poverty remains scarce, limited available
social indicators seem to show widespread problems related to the quality of
life.  The infant mortality rate in Yemen, for example, is very high; it is
almost double the average of lower middle-income countries. The primary
school enrollment rate is still low compared to that of countries at a similar
developmental stage. Given that, in the past, labor remittances supported
many families, current difficulties may reflect the lack of access to public
services rather than a lack of income. The Government's efforts in the past
two decades to improve the situation were focussed on investments in basic
social services such as health and education as well as in sectors providing
sources of employment and income for the relatively poor. In recent years,
health and education current expenditures amounted to one third of total
public sector expenditures, and investments amounted to 13-15 percent of
public investment. Considerable resources have also gone to agriculture,
which is the most important sector in terms of providing employment and food.



- 7 -
Furthermore, substantial investment has been made in rural infrastructure,
such as roads, providing ready access to markets for the majority of the rural
poor. IDA has actively participated in this endeavor, both in lending
operations and in technical advice.
C. IDA Assistance Strategy
17.   IDA economic and sector work, and the IDA lending program, are designed
to address pressing, short-term problems, as well as to promote a stable,
longer-term growth strategy. In the near term, the focus of IDA would
continue to be on assisting the merging of the centrally planned economy of
the South and the market-oriented economy of the Nor,h.   Institutional and
policy issues would consequently receive special attention.
18.   Past Lending.  IDA assistance to Yemen has been directed at the basic
institutions, skills and physical infrastructure that are the main
prerequisites for Yomen's development.   IDA lending was also aimed at
increasing production and income, especially in agriculture, and at supporting
;. Government in its programs to combat poverty and meet basic needs in rural
and urban areas. As of March 31, 1992, IDA had made 97 credits to Yemen for a
total of about US$922 million, net of cancellat'ons. The sectoral
distribution of IDA lending is shown in the table below. In the remote areas,
such as the Marib and Beihan valleys, where the population is isolated and
incomes are low, the c3mbined impact of penetration roads, agricultural
development, education and health projects has been significant in improving
living standards. Recent projects, such as the Eastern Region Agricultural
Development Project and the Multimode Transport Project, which are now
entering initial implementation stages, will further improve living standards.
Sectoral Distribution of IDA Lending. 1971-91
(X)
Agriculture             31.6
Human Resources         19.3
Transport               19.4
Water Supply            15.5
Power                   11.4
Industry                 2.3
Technical Assistance     0.5
19.   Through its own efforts and assistance from IDA and other donors, Yemen
has made progress in all of the above-mentioned sectors (particularly in
education, infrastructure and agriculture) in a relatively short time. During
the last decade, primary school enrollment has increased rapidly from a low
base; the country has improved its highway network and maintenance
capabilities; and agricultural production has increased and become more
diversified. Since unification, efforts to convert the economy of the South
to a market economy have met with considerable success. However, much more



-8-
needs to be done in every sector in terms of investment and policy because of
Yemen's late start in development, its fast growing population and
unemployment rates, and its fragile resources (water, soil and wood biomass).
The discovery of petroleum in modest amounts has been helpful, but the
Government realizes that this additional resource alone will not solve Yemen's
basic developmental problems.
20.   During recent years, there has been a disturbing decline in Yemen's
ability to use external assistance. Project implementation (also planning and
preparation) has slowed down in many sectors due to deteriorating economic
conditions, as well as policy, planning and administrative constraints. As a
result, Yemen's disbursement performance declined from an average US$46
million per year during FY85-FY89 to about US$39 million in FY90 and FY91.
Following a CIR in July 1991, the Government has begun to take measures that
should expedite project implementation. As a result, IDA disbursements for
FY92 have exceeded those of the previous year and are expected to rise to
about US$50 million at the end of the fiscal year. Soma projects in the
portfolio have encountered specific implementation problems. These are being
addressed by sector implementation reviews, corrective measures and
restructuring, as needed. As of end-March 1992, undisbursed IDA funds
amounted to about US$339 million.  While the portfolio is large, it is being
reduced; five projects were closed in FY92 and another five are expected to be
closed in FY93.
21.   There are many reasons for the poor implementation and disbursement
performance over the last few years. Among these, the most prominent general
constraints are: the prolonged ratification of credit agreements (on average,
one year); a cumbersome and overcentralized structure for evaluating bids (6-9
months); licensing and the lengthy customs clearance of project-related goods;
and poor budgeting procedures and provisions for counterpart funds. These
obstacles conspire to generate exceptionally long delays in the early stages
of implementation. Following the CIR discussions, the Government issued a new
set of regulations for project implementation and made time saving
improvements in the ratification, procurement, local funding and custom
clearance procedures. While IDA would like to see faster progress on
implement&tion issues, it is aware that the problems arising from unification
and the Gulf crisis are formidable and that the new political and
administrative structures will not be fully operational until the end of this
year. Another CIR, scheduled for the end of 1992, would follow up on
portfolio simplification, disbursement problems and other implementation
issues.
IDA Lending Oblectives
22.    IDA's long-term objective is to support a program of policy and
structural reform which is consistent with promoting economic growth and
development. Increasing the Government's capacity to implement development
projects is also a key objective. Building on previous efforts, the lending
objectives continue to be (i) the diversification of the economy, employment
generation and development of exports; (ii) development of human resources,
mainly education, public health and alleviation of poverty; and (iii) sound
management/conservation of land and water resources. In programming its



- 9 -
lending to attain these objectives, IDA faces certain constraints.  The
objectives in (i) cannot be fully pursued outside agriculture because
macroeconomic and sector problems constrain lending to industry and energy.
Government policies need to be further improved to support industry and
private sector initiatives. Under discussion with the Government are the ways
and means of assisting private sector development. The Government is only now
beginning to develop an energy sector policy (with IDA assistance) and intends
to mobilize its considerable natural gas resources. IDA would be prepared to
support the emerging programs. Within these broader objectives and
constraints, the interconnected problems of high population growth and
unemployment would continue to receive special attention.
23.   Links with Strateggy.  The industry, energy and agricultural sectors
provide opportunities for diversification of the economy. A planned project
in industry/energy in two years' time would further assist diversification,
employment and possibly create some potential for exports (or import
substitution). It is expected that some key sectoral issues will be resolved
by then. A livestock project within the next two years would create
employment and income in the rural areas and also have a positive impact on
the agricultural trade balance. Human resource development is also a leading
objective of IDA lending. In this sector the opportunities are unevenly
distributed and the education and training system needs qualitative
improvements. The proposed Basic Education Project, as well as two projects
in general and technical education, would aim at improving the quality of
education and Imparting marketable skills, while also stressing female
education and training. A health project planned for this fiscal year would
support the Government in implementing its population control policies
recently adopted at a national symposium, as well as its programs in health
services and health training. Improvement of the environment and resource
conseAio     is oux third main objective. In this sector water and waste
management are the most pressing issues. The proposed Taiz Water Supply and
Urban Services Projects and a later water/sewerage project, would Sim at
safeguarding the ground water resources which are in danger of being
depleted/polluted in the heavily populated areas of Taiz and Sana'a. A later
agricultural project may follow up on resource conservation needs and issues.
These projects would complement our efforts under the FY92 Land and Water
Conservation Project, as well as the proposed sector work on envilronment and
resource management. The water supply, sewerage and health projects would
help the Government in meeting basic Dublic health requirements which need
considerable eittention in a period of constrained public budgets and frequent
signs of water-borne disease epidemics. Most of these projects would help
alleviate poverty either by creating jobs and income or by providing
education, training, better health and public services to those groups
(particularly women) that suffer most from lack of opportunities and
facilities. Not including the proposed education project, about US$130
million would be lent for five projects during FY93-95.
Bank's Policy Recommendations and Government's Response
24. Past Dialogue and Relations with IMF. Prior to the unification of the
country, the Pund and the Bank proposed a Structural Adjustment Facility (SAP)
for YAR, which did not materialize due to disagreement on interest rate and



- 10 -
exchange rate issues. An IMF technical assistance mission visited Yemen in
May 1991, to assist the Government on monetary and fiscal issues resulting
from the unification. The IMF also conducted Article IV consultations in
1991. Two IMF advisors are stationed in Sana'a, one at the Central Bank and
one at the Ministry of Finance. IDA has workled closely with the IMF on
assessing economic issues. Two IMF staff members participated in the Bank
economic mission to prepare the MTFP. Consultations are underway for the
preparation of a policy matrix.
25.   Economic and Sector Work Program and Current Country Dialogue.   Economic
work on the macro-framework analysis (the MTFP) has been completed and is
providing a basis for a dialogue with the Government. Planned economic work
includes an analysis of economic strategy options for a development plan, as
well as a resource mobilization and financial sector study. While adjustment
lending is not actively considered at present, the level of lending is
essentially conditional on the restoration of macroeconomic balances and
adequate progress in removing structural constraints to growth and
development. Ongoing and future sector work includes reviews on the
environment, agriculture, poverty assessment, water management and the labor
market.
26.   Availability and Role of External Aid.   The former YAR and the former
PDRY were highly dependent on grants and concessional loans for project
financing, balance of payments needs as well as budget support. Yemen will
continue to depend on concessional external aid to maintain the development
effort necessary to offset rising unemployment. However, the outlook for
external flows is not encouraging. The total commitment of concessional loans
averaged about US$500 million per year during the period 1985-88 but declined
to about US$110 million per year since 1990. The Government, with UNDP
assistance, has scheduled a donors' round table in the end of June 1992, to
discuss development and external assistance strategies. It is expected that
Yemen will continue to remain an IDA country for the foreseeable future.
27.   Cofinancing with IDA.   IDA projects have benefitted from a very
substantial amount of cofinancing from OECD and Gulf sources. Between FY79
and FY89, IDA lending (to YAR) was almost fully matched by cofinanciers.
However, cofinancing may materialize at lower levels during the next few
years.
IFC AND MIGA Operations
28.   The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has made investments in
agriculture, food processing, light manufacturing and oil refining. Its total
gross commitments, as of March 31, 1992, amounted to US$23.7 million. Further
opportunities for IFC involvement are being explored in the tourism,
agricultural and energy sectors. The Foreign Investment Advisory Service
(FIAS) has provided advice to the Government on the structure and operations
of the new General Investment Authority, which will implement the recently
adopted Investment Law.



- 11 -
Compensation Claims on Nationalized Assets
29.   In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, PDRY nationalized most of the
foreign-owned enterprises, and settlements were reached with almost all
foreign companies prior to unification with YAR. However, one outstanding
claim remains, and the Government has assumed PDRY's obligation to settle this
matter. Discussions on this claim have recently taken place, and both parties
have stated their desire to reach a mutually acceptable settlement.
D. Summary
30.   The discovery of oil and the immediate issues raised by unification and
the Gulf crisis have deflected the Government's attention from needed policy
changes. After the crisis, the Government developed a reform program which
sets out the general principles of social, administrative and economic reforms
to be carried out. Currently, Yemen faces increasing financial requirements
because unification and the Gulf crisis both happened at a time when revenues
and external assistance had substantially declined. Economic measures
directed at stabilization and growth, coupled with reforms in the
administrative structure--in particular, in the use of external assistance--
are now more urgently needed than ever. Movement in the right direction has
taken place; however, more needs to be done to put the economy on a stable
growth path. Although the discovery of additional petroleum reserves is
possible in the next few years, the Government should not see this as a reason
for deferring reforms but as an additional tool for implementing these
reforms.
31.   The amount of IDA assistance will be closely linked with the
Government's own efforts. The centerpiece of the economic dialogue with the
Government is the MTFP follow-up and a planned strategy review. IDA is
helping the Government to identify and implement the economic policies that
will create a stable base on which Yemen's economic and social development can
be mounted. The economic policy measures mentioned in para. 11 will be the
criteria for assessing progress. Emphasis will be on reducing the budget
deficit to a sustainable level.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
32.   Sector Background.   In 1990-91, approximately 2.2 million students were
enrolled at all levels of education and training, about 10 times as many as in
1970-71. Primary education has expanded more than tenfold since the mid-
1960s, as total enrollment in Grades 1-6 in school year 1990-91 reached 1.7
million, covering 77 percent of the 6-11 age group. Impressive as these
enrollment achievements are, the past emphasis on quantitative expansion has
created imbalances in the system and qualitative deficiencies. Moreover, the
coverage has not been equitable: 1.26 million boys were enrolled in grades 1-6



- 12 -
compared to 466,200 girls in 1990-91. The pace of enrollments also
outstripped the Government's ability to provide the necessary financial
resources with which to build and maintain adequate schools and to provide
textbooks and other learning materials. Primary classrooms are dilapidated
and crowded, with repeater and overage enrollment depriving other children,
especially girls, of their access to schooling.
33. To cope with rising enrollments, the Government earlier employed large
numbers of expatriate teachers (reaching 37 percent of about 35,700 primary
teachers in 1989-90). However, as salaries and benefits paid to foreign
teachers seriously drained scarce foreign exchange, the Government embarked on
a Yemenization of the teaching force by establishing primary teacher training
institutes (now numbering 98). The economic crisis following the Gulf war
compelled the Government to accelerate Yemenization by drastic replacement of
expatriate teachers with secondary school graduates who had little or no
specific training as teachers. This emergency measure has resulted in a
significant increase in the number of unqualified primary teachers. The
quality of education at all levels is on the decline due to: (i) inadequate
curriculum development processes and inadequate teaching and learning
materials; (ii) teacher inadequacies, quantitative and qualitative; and (iii)
poor physical facilities.
34.   Rationale for IDA Involvement.  The financial base for education has
deteriorated in recent years. Slow economic growth and large budget deficits
are constraining domestic resources while external aid has decreased in the
wake of the Gulf war. The country had barely begun to reorganize after
unification when the education system was suddenly besieged by a 10 percent
enrollment increase following the Gulf war, and at a time when foreign-
exchange remittances had virtually ceased with the return-migration. In
response to the Government's urgent request for priority assistance in human
resource development, IDA put in place an Emergency Recovery Project (Credit
2258-YEM) with a strong education component and undertook a sector study,
"Human Development: Societal Needs and Human Capital Response" (Report
No.9765-YEN). The sector study concluded, inter alia, that the strategy for
education and training needs to focus on two major long-term objectives:
first, to provide comprehensive basic education for boys and girls in all
regions of the country; and second, to improve the quality of education at all
levels.
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
35.   Proiect Obiectives.  The proposed project would provide incremental
assistance to the Government's ongoing program of school construction and lay
the foundation for quality improvements in basic education through staff and
institutional development. Specifically, the project would: (i) increase the
participation rate of girls in rural areas by providing adequate classrooms
and improving their utilization, and by promoting the recruitment of female
teachers; and (ii) improve the quality of basic education through the
establishment of a cost-effective distance education system for the training



- 13 -
of teachers, and through capacity-building for the development of a unified
curriculum, a new textbook series, and standardized student achievement tests.
36.   Project Description.  The project would include three interrelated
components: (i) expansion of female enrollments in rural areas through the
construction of about 600 primary-level classrooms and provision of basic
furniture to the new classrooms in schools where female enrollments are very
low; on a pilot basis, the construction and furnishing of about 10 living
quarters for female teachers or teaching couples; the construction and
furnishing of five hostels at existing teacher training institutes (TTIs) for
females; and the provision of incentives (housing or transportation allowance)
to female teachers and teacher trainees; (ii) enhancement of teacher
effectiveness through the development of and provision of technical assistance
and equipment to a distance education-based inservice teacher training program
(which would also train headmasters and supervisors on effective school
management) and the provision of equipment and materials to a network of about
18 existing TTIs in the various governorates; and (iii) improvement of the
quality of basic education by supporting the development of a unified primary-
level curriculum, the writing and field-testing of a new textbook series,
provision of computers and computer-assisted desktop publishing equipment and
technical assistance in curriculum, textbook and test development.
37.   To achieve the above objectives, the project would provide financing
for: (i) civil works (US$14.6 million); (ii) equipment and furniture (US$3.0
million); (iii) technical assistance and training, consisting of about eight
staff-years of expert services, six staff-years of fellowship training, and
about 38 staff-years of local consulting services and training (US$1.3
million); (iv) curriculum and other instructional materials (US$1.4 million);
and (v) incentives for female teachers and teacher trainees and operating
expenditures (US$4.7 million). The breakdown of project costs and the
financing plan are in Schedule A. The amounts and methods of procurement and
disbursement, and the disbursement schedule are in Schedule B. The project
would be implemented by the Ministry of Education over a period of six years
and disbursed over the period 1993-98. The timetable of key processing events
is in Schedule C, and the statu-3 of Bank Group operations in Yemen is in
Schedule D.  A map of Yemen is also attached.  The Staff Appraisal Report of
the project, No. 10473-YEM, is being circulated separately.
38.   Project Implementation.  Overall responsibility for the project would
rest with the Minister of Education, while the coordination of project
activities would be supervised by the Vice Minister of Education who would
chair a Basic Education Coordination Committee (BECC), composed of the heads
or designated senior managers of the MOE Departments of General Education,
Training and Qualifying, Guidance and Evaluation, Planning and Finance, the
Educational Research and Development Center (ERDC), and the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU).
39.   Routine project implementation activities would be handled by the PIU,
which would also serve as the contact agency with IDA. Communities eligible
to participate in the project would be identified by a Working Group
consisting of staff from ERDC, the PIU, and the General Education Department.
The distance education training component of the project would be implemented



- 14 -
by the Distance Education Center (DEC) of the MOE's Inservice Training
Institute (ITI); a Distance Education Committee, chaired by the Deputy
Minister for Training and Qualifying, would oversee program development and
implementation. The curriculum and textbook development subcomponents of the
project would be implemented by the ERDC in coordination with the MOE Printing
Press and with the Directorate-General for Educational Materials. The
supervision and testing subcomponents of the project would be implemented by
the Guidance and Evaluation Department.
40.   Project Sustainability.  Project components have been designed with a
view to sustainability. Classrooms constructed under the project would
accommodate either one homogenous grade or two grade groups for multigrade
instruction. Moreover, because community involvement (provision of land and
local labor, identification of resident female teachers or teacher-trainees)
would be a criterion for eligibility for participation in the project, the
likelihood of sustained building maintenance would be increased. The distance
education training program, a cheaper alternative to conventional teacher
training at the TTIs, would use the national television and the TTI networks
as well as the MOE supervision system, all of which are already permanent
features of the Yemeni Governmental structure. While the project would be
expected to generate about YR1 33.5 million in new recurrent costs yearly
(mostly in salaries of new staff at the DEC and for the new hostels for
females, as well as for building and equipment maintenance), the amount is
less than 1 percent of the current MOE salary budget and could easily be
sustained. Further, the new expenditures are expected to be offset by savings
that would be realized through the more cost-effective distance education
training program and through savings that would be realized when the new
textbook policy is in effect, making textbooks property of the school, to be
loaned to students.
41.   Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement.  IDA has supported 13
education projects since 1973 for the former YAR and PDRY territories,
including the first project prepared for the unified country, the Secondary
Teacher Training Project (Credit 2222-YEH) signed in 1991. Among the lessons
learned from completed and ongoing projects are: (i) project design should be
compact and flexible, with self-standing project components that would enable
IDA to reallocate resources, to meet emerging needs; (ii) special attention
must be paid to civil works, especially to site selection and preparation and
award of tenders; (iii) provision must be made to address the known deficiency
in the maintenance of buildings and equipment; and (iv) technical assistance
can be effectively implemented through "packaging," i.e., with one or two
suppliers providing consulting services, following an integrated plan for an
entire project or series of projects.
42. The ongoing projects are generally meeting their objectives in spite of
delays in effectiveness and implementation, which have resulted in slow
disbursements. Implementation delays result from the slow processing and
approval of tenders for civil works, equipment, and furniture tenders, and
from changes in the selection of sites. The issue of maintenance is being
addressed through a school maintenance study financed under the Teacher
Training Project (Credit 1773-YEN); and technical assistance is being
delivered in an integrated package, with significant participation of local



- 15 -
consultants, for three ongoing projects with similar objectives: Education V
(Credits 1340-YEN), Education VI (Credit 1470-YEM), and the Teacher Training
Project. Through regular supervision, monitoring of action programs, and
continual dialogue with the Government, implementation delays, particularly
with the approval of tenders, are being minimized. All projects have shown
marked improvement in disbursement in FY92, with the exception of the
Technical Training Project (Credit 1645-YEM); because of increasing demand for
skilled manpower due to unification, this project has been restructured, with
additional cofinancing from the OPEC Fund and the Islamic Development Bank.
43.   In the proposed project, the specific lessons learned (para. 41) have
been taken into account: (i) the project design is compact (three self-
standing components) and flexible (the scope of classroom construction can be
expanded should the Government obtain additional financing later on); (ii)
sites for civil works have been identified and prototype architectural designs
have been prepared; (iii) the provision for maintenance is adequate in terms
of project funds and community contribution; and (iv) packaged technical
assistance would be procured during the first year of implementation.
44.   Agreed Actions.  The Government brought to negotiations the needed
documentation for the location of the first 100 classrooms to be constructed
under the project; a sample memorandum of agreement for community
participation in the project; the promotional plan for recruiting female
teachers; and a list of international institutions to be visited by MOE
officials in order to prepare for the contracting of technical assistance.
The Government also provided assurances that: the agreed selection criteria
would be used for identifying communities in which the succeeding 500
classrooms are to be built; the Distance Education Center would be established
with qualified staff, the training program developed would be reviewed with
IDA, and successful completers of the program would be given appropriate
recognition in terms of appointment and compensation; the new policy on the
lending and relending of textbooks developed on the basis of the unified
curriculum would be put in effect; and a midterm project review would be
conducted with IDA, its recommendations would be adopted, and the Government
would progressively assume into its regular budget the cost of incentives and
other, project-related operational expenditures.
45.   Environmental Aspects.  The proposed project, rated as a category "C"
operation, would have no adverse impact on Yemen's environment or natural
resources. Textbooks and teacher materials to be developed with project
support would promote environmental awareness.
46.   Program Objective Categories.  The proposed project would assist in
raising literacy levels and contribute to bringing females into the mainstream
of economic and social activities and thereby strengthen the Government's
population goals. Further, the distance education-based training program
would enable teachers, including women, to upgrade their qualification in
service. The project would assist in providing a comprehensive basic
education for all boys and girls in all regions of the country; the new
textbook loan policy would alleviate the need for the costly annual reprinting



- 16 -
of textbooks; and because the principal interventions target rural communities
in which the poor reside, the project would contribute to poverty alleviation.
47.   Project Benefits.  The project would benefit school-age girls in the
rural communities where physical facilities would be constructed. Over time,
and as a result of actions initiated under this project, other school-age
females would benefit from having increased access to primary schooling; and
all students would benefit from the quality and efficiency improvements
developed under this project. The project's distance education delivery
system would initially benefit about 4,000-6,000 teachers who would upgrade
their qualifications while in service. As the training would include
supervisors and headmasters, indirectly all teachers would benefit from the
training programs. Eventually, the system could be used for other forms of
training and for other educational levels. With a new curriculum attuned to
the present realities of Yemen, with textbooks free of gender bias, and with
an evaluation process conducive to the remediation of instruction, the
ultimate beneficiaries would be all primary school children. Emphasis has
been placed on effecting policy initiatives that would result in cost-
effective measures (distance education, textbook loan scheme, targeting of
stipends) and thereby reduce the financial burden on the Government.
48. Rliks. The principal risks relate to: (i) whether female students would
enroll in school, as expected; this risk is being minimized through the
selection of communities willing to participate by donating land and labor and
by sending their female children to school; (ii) whether female teachers for
project schools would be available, as planned; this risk is being addressed
by providing to female teachers and trainees incentives such as housing and
allowances for housing and transportation; and (iii) whether the distance
education program can be successfully established; the provision of technical
assistance and the revision of the instructional materials being developed
under the Emergency Recovery Project (Credit 2258-YEM)--instead of developing
completely new materials--are expected to minimize this risk.
49. Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
Date: June 16, 1992



*17-
A2ppudix
UR)MC OF TM6 * maIC INDICATOtS
NWI*99 Pqa4tian (.1t.)       1.3
196 Per Capita GP in Usk*    550 a/
............. .   .................          ................. 4f.4 40.n   . l...  ....... ...  ......
A. Mine. of Oem SaMeIC PoAct bt                 B. Oeined soca a per wnm) bd
(frm turret price dt)                        Cfr= u,t 196 prIe data)
118    118   118    MeW  119 1990 p 199 p    18   118   1188   18  1960 p 1991 p
Cros Oaiutic Pridut u.p.    100.0  105.0  100.0" 100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  ..   .      .    .     3.T  -3.9
Nat Indiratt Tamme         1143   11.2   8.?   8.9    7.?   4.9   5*.4    *.    .      .     .*3.        0.8
00e Fat ore cost           88.7   854   91.3  91.1   92.3  95.1   94.6    .     ..     .     ..  11.3   -4.1
AgrfsAtuw                  23.0   "4    24.7  29.4   22.6  19.7  29.8    ..    ..      .      .   4.2  -4.3
IrdEtry                    18.9   17.9  19.1  ;2.2   26.8  3.2   29.0     .     ..    .      ..   9.2  -2.5
(Of b6idh kwstafasP.iq      0.6   17.9  19.1  29.2  26.8   29.2  29.0    ..     .      .     .    1.9   -0.5
Sarvlm                     46.8   "4J*  47.5  46.5   4.9   47.3  48.7    ..     .     .          20.9   *5.0
imscce Waerv                -36.?  -V7.? .359  *24.4  .13.3  -7.8  -6.2    .      ..     .    ..   35.8  *60.6
IJwtaOf SlIPS               6.3   4.9    6.4  13.0   25.3  22.   14.       .    *      *.3               2.3
Iap.rt of anP              43.0   35.5  39.3  39.3   29.6  30.8  29.6                           -I.. .. ...1.  -19.0
Touta LqUiturv              138.3  123.0  13.2  12.0  113.  107.8  106.2   -...         .     .      3   -10.8
Touta Ccwmaptiw           119.0  112.0  116.1  105.0  95.6  98.3  92.8    ..    .      .     .     .3   -9.1
PH%fte Cwmmiptiw,         95.9  91.4   GA.   5.3   70.3  66.5   64.9    ..     .      .          3.1.  -11.5
cointsa 0crvmm            93.1  29.6  V.5    24.8  29.3   29.9  27.9     .     .      .    .    12.2  -2.3
Gam" mmatl h Meo-t         19.8   16.0  17.1   18.9  17.7  15.5  13.4     ..     .     .     .   -3.7  -21.8
Fixed Jtwta- 1            20.0  16.4  16.9   18.3  17.5  1U.6   13.3    ..     .     .     *    7.9  -17.8
aiuwiwsntaoci             -0.1  -0.4   0.3   0.7    0.2   0.9    0.1    .      .     .      .    .
Grewos autfo S.re           -19.0  -1I.0  -16.1  -8.0  4.4    7.?   7.2    ..     .      .    .      -   93.1
Met iwtori t23.n8. 17.3                 18.5   7.5   -6.6  -L.2  -7.7    ..     -.    .      .   5.     -9.1
met CwruwTo-eter            2.4   46.6   3.6   Li1    0.0   0.0  -0.0     .      .    .      .      .
am"s Naticutn IvdIN          7.1    9.9   6.0    14   -L3    -0.5  -0.6    .      .     .      .     .   3.
in elU law of LOs            INS   1186   118   "a8   11    1990   199   1186   118  1"s8    118   1990  191
(at gEStalt 199 prima         ..      ..... . .   . ....
Gam" Domatic Pr~at           -.    ..     .     -   21    811m   189      .      .    .          -3.18  -3.90,
Cgpoity to Iqt               .            .     ..2905    zm     193      -      .     .        -11.18 -11.09
Term ofTradmedjutant          .           -     ..-471?      .0  -an      .      .     -     ..    -
Gai Oaintc Inou              -.    ..     .     .   900   81130  1515I          -     -          1.18-75
Groms atlawi prod=s          -.    ..     .     .      z~ 150l   7211    ..     *                6.97 '-3.43
Gar Nuastnu bfum             ..    -.     --    .   1554155      69699    .     -      -     -   -1.19  -7.40
*...........e.. C115 a100)  ...  ... 
C. price Indican             11    1986   118   "BB   118   199   1991 p  1186  118   IWI   1TM    1960 1991 p
sorsew Pricem (~~ V          41.8  50.6   3.5   66.8  74.7  100.0    ..  21.1   15.8  10.7   15.2  35.9 
uilei.tMP efla.m              o.     .     -      .     1    0.0  129.0 *'-             .    14.5  29.0  29.0;
0. OUte iadiotwws            11    18     "9a   19a8  "a8   1"P0 1991 P
'ouUi  p.           ~~~~~~~3.0  3.1  3.1  3.1  3.2   3.2   11.1
Grams Nati. Iip.c.            .    .      .      .         .4.3  .16.4
Jetwo CON" S/ PW              .    .      .     .      .    3.3   4.9
Garowm  Ytrumi bYm                                                 4.Imm
Icm .rlodmrqins               .      .     .          10.2  .4.2  -4.0
Uow of total L*bw Foam (1990) P1  towa    MWt Pantle  Lfrbo  sutn
MMAgrsitr                         62.0  36.   29.2   1.2   60.
jratry                            10.6  36.   74.0   85.9  24.7
SorvIom                           27.   24.    *'.   13.0  14.4
TOWa                             100.0  153   24.7   10. 0   .0
-. ..........    . . .4.....     .0.         .      .        4     . .*..................



"**==>This document did not complete OCR process. <==**" 
