DocLiment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10473-YEM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
2~~~~~ ~~REPbBLIC OF YEMEN
_, .*-
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
JUNE 16, 1992
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of
their offici'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00 - Yemeni Rial (YR1) 12
YR1 1.00 - US$0.08
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BECC   -    Basic Education Coordination Committee
DEC    -    Distance Education Center (at the ITI)
ERDC   -    Educational Research and Development Center
CDP    -   Gross Domestic Product
ICB    -    International Competitive Bidding
IDA    -    International Development Association
ITI    -    Inservice Training Institute
LCB    -    Local Competitive Bidding
MIS    -   Management Information System
MOE    -   Ministry of Education
PIU    -    Project Implementation Unit
TTI    -   Teacher Training Institute
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
I.   ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL BACKGROUND ................................ 1
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR..                                                                                               3
A.  Overview . ............................................ 3
B.       Basic  Education  ........................................ ...    3
Structure of the System .......................................  3
Enrollment  Characteristics    .                  ..................................   3
Sector  Management    ............................................   4
Teachers  and  Teacher  Training    ..........                       ......................   4
Curriculum  and  Textbooks    .               ....................................   5
Supervision and Testing ....................................... 5
C.       Main  Issues  in  Basic  Education    ..........                       .....................   5
Female  Participation    .........................................                                    5
Supply of Female Teachers . ....................................  6
Quality  of  Teacher  Training    .............                      .....................   6
Physical  Facilities  ...........................................   7
Curriculum . ........................................... 8
Textbook  Quality  and  Availability    ........                         ....................   8
Supervision  and  Student  Assessment    .......                         ....................   9
Financial  Resources    ..........................................   10
D.       Experience  with  Prior  IDA  Le.nding  ........                        .....................  10
IDA  Involvement  in  Education    ...........                      ......................  10
Lessons  Learned    ............................................    11
E.       Government  Strategy  and  Dialogue  with  IDA    .....   .............  12
Government  Strategy    ..........................................  12
IDA Strategy ............................................. 12
This report in based on the findings of an appraisal mission to the Republic of Yemen in Jann.ary-February 1992
composed of A.F. de Guzman (Education Specialist, mission leader and task manager), G. Zarour (Senior Ger.eral
Educator), L.M. Concepcion (Senior Implementation Specialist), and M. Mukhopadhyay (Distance Education Specialist,
consultant).    S.  Apergis  (Economist,  consultant),  M.  Jurdak  and  S.  Strickland  (Education  Specialists,
consultants), E. Syrjanen and T. Paajanen (Textbook Specialists, consultants) participated in the identification
and preparation missions. P. Gerson, K. Seraphin, and R. El-Rashidi assisted in the preparation of the report.
The peer reviewers of the report were S. Sigurdason (Principal Implementation Specialist) and H. Martinez (Senior
Educator). The report was prepared under the overall supervision of Mr. Douglas H. Keare (Chief, MN2PH) and
approved by Mr. Ram K. Chopra, Director (MN2) and Mr. Caio Koch-Weser, Vice President, Middle East and North
Africa Region.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page
III. THE PROJECT . ......................................................... 12
A.  Project Objectivets and Scope .13
B. Droject Components .13
Component 1: Expansion of Educational Access for Females .13
Classrooms for Girls in Rural Areas .13
Recruitment and Training of Female Teachers .15
Component 2: Enhancement of Teacher Effectiveness .16
Distance Education .16
Component 3: Improvement of Educational Quality .18
Curriculum and Textbook Development .18
Training for Supervision and Testing .19
C.    Monitoring of Specific Project Inputs and Outputs .19
IV.   PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. MANAGEMENT, AND IMPLEMENTATION ....    ........ 19
A. Cost of the Project .19
Base Costs .20
Contingency Allowances .21
Foreign Exchange Component .21
Customs Duties and Taxes .21
Incremental Recurrent Costs .21
B. Project Financing .22
C.    Project Management and Implementation .22
D.  Procurement Arrangements .23
International Competitive Bidding .23
Exceptions to ICB .24
Contract Review .25
Disbursements .........       ................................. 25
Project Accounts and Audits .26
E.  Status of Project Preparation .26
F.    Project Reporting and Evaluation .27
Reporting .27
Midterm Review and Evaluation .27
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS .28
A. Benefits .28
B.    Risks ............................................               28
C.    Sustainability.         ........................................... 29



Table of Contents (continued)
Page
VI.   AGREED ACTIONS AND RECOMMENDATION  .................................. 29
A.    Agreed Actions  .............................................. 29
B.    Recommendation  ..............................................  30
TEXT TABLES
Table 4.1   Cost Summary by Project Component  ....: .    ...................... 20
Table 4.2   Project Cost Summary by Category of Expenditure  ....          .......... 20
Table 4.3   Financing Plan by Disbursement Category  ...................... 21
Table 4.4   Procurement Arrangements  ..................................... 23
ANNEXES
A  -  Statistical Tables  .............        ...................................  31
1     Enrollment Growth in Primary Grades 1-6 (North) .31
2     Enrollment Growth in Primary Grades 1-6 (South) .31
3     Enrollment Growth in Religious Schools (North) .32
4     Basic Education Teachers by Sex and Nationality .32
5     Primary-Level Textbooks by Grade and Subject .33
6     Gross Enrollment Ratios and Female Participation Rates .34
7     Qualification of Basic Education Teachers .35
8  Educational Plan (North) .35
9  Educational Plan (South) .36
10     Curriculum Time Devoted to Major Content Areas .36
B  -  Profile of 204 Project Communities  ................................  37
C  -  Providing Project Classrooms with Female Teachers ................... 45
D  -  Distance Education for Inservice Education of Teachers  ....         ........  54
E  -  Project Cost and Financing Tables  .................................  64
F  -  Recurrent Cost Summary  ............................................  66
G  -  Detailed Implementation Schedules  .................................  68
H  -  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  ...............................  71
I  -  Technical Assistance and Summary Schedule  .........................  72
J  -  Project Supervision Schedule  ......................................  75
K  - Monitoring Chart for Critical Project Activities  .....            .............  76
L  -  Documents in the Project File  .....................................  80
MAP
IBRD 23814



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Government of the Republic of Yemen
Beneficiary:          Ministry of Education
Credit Amount:        US$19.7 million
Terms:                Standard IDA
Proiect DescriRtion: The overall objective of the project is twofold, namely, to
increase the school participation rate of girls in rural areas
and to lay the foundation for improving the quality of basic
education.   The project would: (i) increase the participation
rate of girls in rural areas by providing adequate classrooms and
improving their utilization, and by promoting the recruitment of
female teachers; and (ii) improve the quality of basic education
through the establishment of a cost-effee:tive distance education
system for the training of teachers in service and through
capacity-building for the development of a inified curriculum, a
new textbook series, and standardized studens.. achievement tests.
Benefits:             School-age girls in the rural communities wh .e the new class-
rooms would be built would benefit from havii.g 'creased access
to primary schooling; and all students would oenefit from the
quality improvements to be introduced in this project.   The
project would establish a distance education delivery system that
would initially benefit 4,000-6,000 teachers who would upgrade
their qualifications in-service; eventually the systt.n could be
used for other forms of training and for other educational
levels. As the training would include supervisors and headmas-
ters, indirectly all teachers would benefit from the training
programs. With a new curriculum attuned to the present realities
of Yemen, t.xtbooks free of gender bias, and with an evaluation
process condocive to the remediation of instruction, the ultimate
beneficiaries would be all the primary school children.
Risks:                The risks consist in:  (a) whether female teachers would be
available for project schools; and (b) whether the distance
education system could be successfully established. To minimize
risk in female teacher recruitment, the project would introduce
a number of incentives for female teachers and teacher-t:ainees
(housing, allowances for transportation or for housing) and
actively promote recruitment through promotional campaigns. To
minimize risk in distance education, technical assistance would
be provided in an integrated package; instead of developing new
instructional modules, those already developed under the
Emergency Recovery Project (Credit 2258-YEM) would be revised for
use in distance education.



- ii -
Estimated Proiect Costs:
ComRonent                 Local         Foreign        Total
-----------US$ million----------
Expansion of Access        8.5            7.1           15.6
Teacher Effectiveness    2.2              1.6            3.8
Improvement of Quality   0.3              0.6            0.9
Total Base Cost           11.0            9.3           20.3
Physical Contingencies   1.1              0.9            2.0
Price Contingencies        1.6            1.1            2.7
Total Project Cost*       13.7           11.3           25.0
*Including taxes and duties of US$2.1 million.
Financing Plan:
Local         Foreign        Total
-----------US$ million----------
IDA                        8.4           11.3           19.7
Government                 5.3            0.0            5.3
Total                     13.7           11.3           25.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
------------------US$ million-----------------
Annual        0.1    1.2    4.7    6.7    4.2    2.0    0.8
Cumulative   0.1    1.3    6.0   12.7   16.9   18.9   19.7
Percentage      0      7      30     64      86      96    100
Rate of Return:       Not applicable



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. ECONOM±C AND SOCIAL BACKGROUND
A. Physical Resources
1.01     The Republic of Yemen, formed in May 1990, with the national capital
at Sana'a, unifies the 12 governorates of the former Yemen Arab Republic (YAR,
or the North) and the six governorates of the former Peoples' Democratic
Republic of Yemen (PDRY, or the South).  With an estimated population of about
12 million people (78 percent of wh.im live in the North and 22 percent in the
South), Yemen occupies an area of 537,000 sq. km. of largely mountainous and
v ertic terrain in the southwestern part of the Arabian Peninsula. There are
five 'istinct geographic regions: the arid coastal plain along the Red Sea
(t'   .hama); the Indian Ocean desertic littoral; the rugged central and
S!,    i highlands, rising to about 3,700 m., where most of the popul'tion
lives' he eastern plateau; and the Rub Al Khali Desert. Annual rainfall
mostly ranges from 150 um. to 450 mm., although up to 1,200 mm. falls in the
highlands.  Fiarec and diminishing supplies of fresh water restrict the total
annual cultivated area to i.4 million ha. Other natural resources include
approximately 2,000 km. of marine coastline and oil reserves discovered in
1984.
B. Economic Activitv
1.02     At unification, YAR faced a slowdown of growth, to about 4 percent
per year, accompanied by large budget and balance-of-payments deficits, due to
a substantial rise in Government expenditures and a sharp decline in workers'
remittances. The Government's continued use of central-bank credit and short-
term external borrowing to finance the deficits created intense inflationary
pressures and debt-service difficulties. PDRY faced stagnation at
unification: real GDP grew only about 1 percent per year in 1988-89. The
stagnation was accompanied by large budget and balance-of-payments deficits,
on the order of 45 and 41 percent of GDP, respectively, in 1989. The deficits
were also financed largely by bank credit and external borrowing. The unified
country inherited Ull of these problems.
03     The situation was further complicated by events in the Middle East.
First, the massive return of migrant workers from the Gulf resulted in a sharp
decline in remittances, a principal source of foreign exchange for the
country. Second, other sources of finance either declined sharply or dried up
altogether, including grants and fees that PDRY earned by refining Iraqi and
Kuwaiti crude at the Aden Refinary. The losses of remittances, estimated at
some US$1 billion per year, and of other external capital led to a sharp
reduction in imports, seriously depressing domestic economic activities, and
to further debt-service difficulties. In 1990-91, output declined by almost 4
percent per year. Third, with e 9 percent increase in population due to
returning migrants, import needs increased. Fourth, the returnees created an
additional burden on Government finances in terms of needed emergency



assistance and additional infrastructure and social services. With these
increased expenditure requirements, but with stagnating revenue sources, the
budget deficit remained large, averaging about 18 percent of GDP in 1990-91.
Much of the deficit was financed by bank crediv, driving domestic inflation to
some 39 percent per year during 1990-91.
1.04     Despite the present difficulties and an unfavorable immediate
outlook, Yemen's development prospects remain promising, provided that the
Government adopts appropriate policies to deal with the present situation and
to lay a solid foundation for future development. IDA advice has been sought
to develop a policy framework. With only a modest domeztic resource base and
the rising unemployment of low-skilled workers--due to rapid population
growth, more women Joining the labor force, and limited opportunities for
employment abroad--the country needs a development strategy that would not
only earn sufficient foreign exchange to pay for what it cannot produce at
home but also provide employment opportunities for the workers. An outward-
looking development strategy, focussing on exports of labor-intensive goods
and services, would seem to be appropriate.
C. Government Administration
1.05     As part of the amalgamation and reorganization following national
unification, the Government adopted an interim organization that essentially
expanded governmental ministries based on the combined administrations of the
two former countries. The Government recognizes that unification has produced
a massive civil service that cannot be sustained over the long term, an issue
that must be addressed during the prescribed interim period for unification,
which ends in December 1992.
1.06     The Government has started to implement a number of policy measures
consistent with IDA recommendations. It has restrained growth in budget
expenditures, including the proposed cut in defense spending in the 1992
budget. It has significantly raised excise taxes on commodities such as
petroleum and tobacco products. It has liberalized the foreign exchange
regime, covering about 85 percent of imports. It has applied throughout the
country t'ie market principles heretofore followed only in the North.
1 07     Given Yemen's limited natural resources, all conceivable development
paths must involve extensive reliance on the country's most abundant resource,
its manpower. Unfortunately, the present state of human capital in Yemen is
poor, with few Yemenis having the types of skills that will be necessary to
participate in and contribute to a modernizing economy. Accordingly, the
development of Yemen's education and training system--which suffer3 from both
qualitative and quantitative shortcomings--must go hand-in-hand with
appropriate macroeconomic policies if Yemen is to achieve its potential in the
coming years.



- 3 -
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Oveview
2.01     Over the last two decades, Yemen's education and training system grew
phenomenally, catapulting the country from almost medieval conditions into the
modern age. Enrollment in general, or basic, education rose from 244,000 in
1970-71 to 2.2 million in 1990-91, with primary education (grades 1-6)
enrollments growing from 221,000 to 1.7 million and preparatory and secondary
enrollments from 22,030 to 500,000. In 1990-91, some 30,000 students wire
enrolled in teacher training programs compared with fewer than 1,000 in 1970-
71. Technical and vocational training was negligible two decades ago and is
still very much under-represented today (18,000 students in 1990-91). Higher
education began in the early 1970s, and by 1990-91 some 37,000 students were
enrolled at the University of Sana'a and another 6,000 at the University of
Aden.
2.02     The rapid expansion of enrollments illustrates the Government's
commitment to provide education for all, obligatory at least at the primary
level. The former governments encouraged the comnunity (Local Development
Councils in the North and People's Committees in the South) to build schools
in rural areas; the present government has restarted a national school-mapping
exercise, begun in 1984, to support the current school construction program
aimed at decongesting crowded urban schools, completing rural schools, and
limiting multigrade classrooms to two grade levels. Foreign donors financed
school construction, while the Government embarked on Yemenizing the teaching
force by establishin- a network of teacher training institutes (TTIs) and
providing generous incentives to teacher-trainees. Textbooks are provided at
minimal user charges. A comprehensive education bill has been introduced in
parliament, to redefine national educational goals, structures, standards, and
services.
B. Basic Education
Structure of the System
2.03     Prior to unification, the North provided six years of primary, three
years of int-rmediate (called "preparatory"), and three years of secondary
education (a 6-3-3 system); while the South provided eight years of primary
(called "unity") and four years of '-condary education (an 8-4 system). The
emerging consensus in the wake of  '-fication is to provide nine years of
basic and three years of secondf  education (a 9-3 system).  The Government
anticipates providing nine yea.-, .f compulsory basic education eventually.
However, faced with mounting economic problems, the Government has determined
that, as an interim measure, attendance in school would be obligatory for the
first six grades only, and the long-term objective is to realize universal
primary education by the year 2000.
Enrollment Characteristics
2.04     Yemen has made significant progress toward providing primary
education to its rapidly expanding population. In the North, enrollments
increased from 88,000 in 1970 to 250,000 in 1975, and to 1.29 million in 1990
(Annex A, Table 1). The proportion of female enrollment rose from 9 percent
in 1970 when there were only 8,000 female students to 25 percent in 1990 when



the system enrolled 324,000 females. In the South, the total enrollment in
grades 1-6 grew from 129,000 in 1970 to 306,000 in 1990. Growth was
proportionately about the same for males (55 percent) as for females (60
percent) during the eleven-year period (Annex A, Table 2).
Sector Managemenc
2.05     The Ministry of Education (MOE).  Hleaded by a Minister and a Vice
Minister, the central MOE is supported by a number of staff offices, among
them, a Directorate-General for School Construction, a department of which is
the IDA Project Implemertation Unit (PIU), and the Educational Rfsearch and
Development Centor (ERDC) which undertakes school mapping as well as
curriculum and .extbook development. Central managemert functions are
discharged by five departments: Planning and Finance, Personnel, General
Education, Training and Qualifying, and Guidance and Evaluation. At the
governorates, Directorates-General of Education are resporqiL'U for local
administration.  Complete schools typically have headmast        whi.lc incomplete
schools, mostly in rural areas, are run by head teachers.
2.06     The Religious School System (Ilmiyyah).  Parallel to the acadeLm_c
pre-university school system is an educational system of religious schools and
attached TTIs under the administrative control and responsibility of the
Department of Religious Educational Institutions. Its academic offerings are
similar to those of the general educational system except for greater emphasis
on Islamic studies and Arabic language. This educational system shoulders
responsibility for about 10 percent of the student population (Annex A, Table
3), and its main objective is to satisfy a demand for religious studies
(shari'a). The department also runs non-formal programs for more than 35,000
students for the study or memorization of the Qur'an. An MOE proposal to
integrate this parallel system ilito the Government's basic education system is
being discussed in the parliament.
Teachers and Teacher Trainin
2.07     Teacher recruitment and deployment are the responsibility of the
General Education Department. In 1989-90, there were 23,300 primary- and
12,400 unity-level teachers' (Annex A, Table 4). About 32 percent of the
total number of teachers were expatriate (all in the North), and about 24
percent were female. Teacher training is undertaken by the Training and
Qualifying Department. Out of 98 .:nstitutes (excluding religious) for
training general primary teachers, there were 24 "independent" and 74
"attached" TTIs2 offering: (i) five years of training following completion of
grade 6; (ii) four years of training following completion of grade 8 in the
southern governorates; and Xiii) three years of training following graduation
from grade 9. In addition. .. two-year post-secondary teacher training program
is offered by community colleges of the Faculties of Education (of the
University of Sana'a), leading to the Intermediate Education Diploma.
J A detailed discussior of teacher training is found in Annex C.
J.1 Attached TTIs are conducted in classrooms that are part of existing
preparatory or secondary schools. TTIs that utilize facilities solely for the
purpose of teacher training are referred to as independent TTIs.



-5-
Curriculum and Textbooks
2.08     In unified Yemen, curriculum and textbook development is undertaken
by the ERDC, textbook production by the MOE Textbooe- Printing Press (as well
as through foreign contracts), and textbook distribution by the Directorate-
General of Educatiunal Materials (a unit of the MOE Planning and Finance
Department). There are 36 textbook titles covering all subject areas of the
six-grade primary cycle. The textbook requirement varies from four titles in
grade 1 (for religion, reading, and mathematics) to nine titles in grade 6
(Annex A, Table 5).
Supervision and Testing
2.09     The Guidance and Evaluation Departmaent oversees the work of about 200
supervisors for grades 1-4 and more than 400 subject supervisors covering
grades 5-12. Evaluation practices and tools are similar in both parts of the
country. In the North, internal assessment is done by the school and is bas d
on school work during the year and weekly, monthly, and final tests. The
decentralization of the external, end-of-primary-cycle examination came into
effect in 1990, with responsibility shifting to the governorates. In the
south, Interral assessment is by school-based written unit tests, short
written tests, oral tests, and practical work. A student is automatically
promoted from the first to second grade whereas ir other primary grades a
student is promoted on condition that he or she does not fail more than one
subject (,ther than mathematics or language). External assessment (the unity
exam) is done by the MOE and is based on a general exam covering the last
grade and on the school work for the last two grades.
C. Main Issues in Basic Education
2.10     The recently concluded IDA human resources sector study3 identified
low female participation and limited access to education in rural areas as the
key issues with regard to access and equity. The study also identified a
range of other issues, from teacher shortage to inadequate physical
facilities, associated with declining educational quality.
2.11     Female participation is low.  During the 1990-91 school year, more
than 1.2 million boys were enrolled in grades 1-6 of the unified republic, a
figure greater than the estimated male population aged 6-11.  Even allowing
for overage students, this statistic implies that a grea^. majority of boys in
the relevant age group are already in school.  In contrast, only 466,000 girls
were enzolled out of an estimated total of 1.08 million girls aged 6-11. The
gross enrollment ratios, therefore, exhibit significant inequalities: 1.09 for
boys, 0.43 for girls (Annex A, Table 6).
2.12     In an ERDC study (1991), rural families, teachers, and local leaders
were asked to identify the principal causes of low female enrollment. The
most common responses included the following: (i) lack of female teachers, a
particularly strong deterrent for girls over 11 years; (ii) lack of special
schools or classrooms for girls (coeducation is objected to especially for
girls over 11 years); (iii) heavy workload at school or inappropriate school
3.' "Human Development: Societal Needs and Human Capital Response (Republic of
Yemen)," Report No. 9675-YEM (The World Bank, Washington, D.C.), January 1992
(green cover draft).



- 6 -
hours (morning or afternoon, depending on special local conditions),
conflicting with demands from the household for work at home and in the
fields; (iv) inappropriate or distant location of the school; (v) high
schooling expenses, relative to typical rural incomes; (vi) irrelevance of
actual curricula for the work typically performed by women in rural Yemen; and
(vii) dilapidated schools, which are not maintained.
2.13     There is, nevertheless, a keenness even among rural parents to send
their children to school. However, while boys are free to walk even to
distant schools, girls are not allowed to do so. The desire to have schools
for girls within reasonable walking distance from the community has resulted
in efforts by local communities to build schools (paras. 2.02, 2.23); although
some of the structures were substandard, they are an indication that the
community can be relied upon to participate in a school building program by
contributing either land or local labor.
2.14     Oualified female teachers are in short supply.  Further, available
data indicate that, throughout the country, the overall percentage of female
teachers is low end most likely in short supply in rural areas. In the
northern governorates, only 15 percent of primary teachers were female in
1987-88 (of whom 9 percent were Yemeni and 6 percent were non-Yemeni). In
1990-91, data from the northern governorates show that the percentage of
female teachers was about 12 percent. In four out of the six southern
governorates (excluding Mahra and Lahej), in 1989-90 female teachers in unity
schools made up 44 percent of the total number of teachers, with female-to-
male ratios varying from more than 4:1 in Aden to 1:8 in Shabwa (details in
Anniex C).
2.15     The low proportion of female teachers, particularly in the north, is
exacerbated by declining female enrollments in the TTIs. The 1990-91
enrollment at the pre-university level TTIs (exclading those in religious
schools) was 22,687, of which 11 percent were fecrale. There has been a steady
decrease in the percentage of fewale students enrolled in TTIs in former YAR
between 1974-75 (48 percent) and 1990-91 (11 percent). This is partly due to
the closure of TTIs for females in Sana'a, Taiz, and other urban centers which
began to show a surplus of female teachers (shortages of female teachers in
rural areas persist, however).
2.16     In many rural areas, there are no educated females who can be trained
as teachers, and it is socially undesirable for women teachers to be posted in
areas away from their own homes. To mitigate the effects of this social
constraint, the MOE contemplates the appointment of teaching couples or groups
of female teachers to rural schools. For rural locations, effectively
implementing this alternative would require the provision of housing to
attract groups of female teachers or teacbing couples to accept rural
assignments. The cultural sensitivity to having a female live in a community
which is not her own does not, apparently, apply to temporary residence. As
has been shown in the Teacher Training Project (Credit 1773-YEM), female
teacher trainees are allowed to live away from home, in appropriately designed
hostels. The availability of training residences of this nature, in strategic
locations, could potentially be an effective form of intervention to increase
the number of women in the teaching force.
2.17     The quality of teacher training is poor.  The substantial increase in
enrollments in the 1970s and 1980s necessitated continued dependence on
expatriate teachers in spite of efforts to prepare Yemeni primary school
teachers. To encourage more Yemenis to become teachers, low standards for



- 7 -
entry into the teaching force or into the TTIs were adopted. Programs
admitted trainees who lacked the academic background and maturity to acquire
academic and pedagogical skills. This resulted in low educational quality
both in the North and in the South.
2.18     The current preservice primary teacher training programs include both
academic preparation and pedagogical skills. Aside from differences between
the program of studies in the southern and northern governorates (which need
to be resolved), the training programs generally place excessive emphasis on
theoretical information and suffer from repetition and duplication. In
addition, teaching methods within the programs tend to be traditional,
depending on lecturing and almost exclusively on one-way communication.
Although past IDA projects for teacher training have had inputs in curricular
improvement, their effects have not yet been felt, particularly because they
have been overtaken by events in the region (para. 2.20).
2.19     With generous incentives (scholarships, stipends, liberal leaves),
the cost of these programs is high, relative to the cost of general secondary
education. The Government is currently evaluating the effectiveness of these
tra4ning programs (Credit 1773-YEM) with a view to rationalizing the
preservice training system for the unified country.
2.20     In addition to professionally underqualified primary teachers, there
is a problem of professionall nqualified Yemeni teachers. Prior to
unification, the percentage of femeni teachers with no professional training
was high (Annex A, Table 7) but manageable, since the great majority of
teachers were professionally qualified expatriate teachers. The recruitment
of unqualified teachers was accelerated after the Gulf war when contracts of
foreign teachers were not renewed, as foreign-exchange shortages no longer
allowed Yemen to pay those teachers in foreign currency. Consequently, a
large number of secondary school graduates were recruited as primary teachers
(about 25,000 for 1991-92, of whom 15,000 are national service recruits and
10,000 confirmed as permanent teachers) to replace the expatriates. With
teaching effectiveness still being negatively affected by the surge of this
large number of teacher recruits with no pedagogical training, it is evident
that high priority in the immediate future should be given to providing cost-
effective inservice teacher training.
2.21     Schools are incomplete and goorly maintained.  A school mapping
survey of the northern governorates was begun in 1984, but the data have not
been fully processed to date. Available information about the overall status
of primary schools in Yemen, lacking data on the six southern governorates, is
imprecise. Nevertheless, current information shows that in 1990-91 there were
!,542 primary school buildings in the North with 16,101 classrooms, or an
average of three classrooms per school building. Considering that urban
schools are likely to cover the six primary grades fully and that each grade
is provided with a separate classroom, the data indicate that a large number
of primary schools in rural areas are incomplete. This is supported by other
statistics that show that in 1987-88, more than 80 percent of the 6,236
primary schools in the northern governorates were of the multigrade type.
About 34 percent (2,115 schools) were one-teacher schools, and 26 percent
(1,636 schools) were two-teacher schools, implying shortages of classrooms and
overcrowding.
2.22     Overcrowding and an outright lack of shelter are compounded by the
dilapidated state of most school buildings and the near absence of
maintenance. The 1990-91 school data count only 1,552 toilets, meaning that a



- 8 -
large majority of school buildings are without these facilities. This
unsanitary condition especially deters females from enrolling, or staying, in
school. Only 892 schools (16 percent) had electricity, and 956 schools (17
percent) had water. Very few instructional materials can be found in
classrooms, and written lessons on the board are difficult to read because the
blackboards are wcrn and faded. Many schools lack classroom furniture--but
stacks of broken desks occupy precious space--or resources to have broken
furniture repaired. There is a need to instill a consciousness for care,
maintenance, and responsibility for the upkeep of the school, especially among
school teachers and administrators, and to provide adequate funds for
maintenance.
2.23     Unsupervised building, especially of schools built by the communities
themselves in rural areas, renders a large number of schools substaLdard in
design and construction in some areas and redundant and underutilized in other
areas. The MOE has recently resumed the updating and completion of the school
mapping exercise and will extend the survey to the southern states (para.
2.02); it has a set of prescribed school building plans for classrooms,
latrines, and school offices. However, these standards are not appropriate in
all cases and, applied across the board, do not accommodate the needs of
multigrade teaching situations, especially in remote rural areas. The
definition of appropriate alternative school building models and their
application in conjunction with the school mapping data would result in a more
efficient and rational use of resources in building and improving school
facilities.
2.24     There is a need to unify the primary curriculum.  Prior to
unification, the North and the South operated as independent systems, each
with its own curriculum.  In the North, there was no published statement of
objectives by grade or by subject area. Instructional content was largely
determined by the official textbook that the MOE provided to schools. In the
South, although educational objectives were articulated, these were neither
clear nor practicable. No teachers' guides accompany the textbooks nor is
training provided to teachers, to elaborate on those objectives.
2.25     Curricula in the North and South differ, especially with respect to
emphasis. The North devotes more time to religious education, while the South
allocates more time to social studies, practical education and the arts (Annex
A, Tables 8, 9 and 10). After the current urgent process of preparing unified
textbook titles, time must be devoted to the development of a unified
curriculum. Recognizing this, the Government has embarked on a phased plan
for curriculum and textbook reform and has acted to enhance this process by
rationalizing coordination between educational bureaucracies in the North and
the South. In addition, a USAID-supported project launched in the North prior
to unification is training about 20 staff of the ERDC in curriculum and
textbook developmert. Curriculum development should address the need for a
more gender-fair primary education curriculum and a greater emphasis on
female-related skills and female identification models. This would be
expected, over time, to change attitudes toward females, so that their role as
a positive force in society and the economy may be better appreciated and
their equitable treatment be promoted.
2.26     Textbooks are of uneven guality. and supply is unreliable.  The
present quality of textbooks in use in Yemen is low. Textbooks lack
accompanying teachers' guides (para. 2.24) and typically are not divided into
sections of appropriate length for individual lessons, leaving the teacher
with no indication about the appropriate amount of material to cover in a



- 9 -
given time period. There is no systematic graduation of the difficulty of
material presented, and apparently very little effort has been devoted to the
study of the use of typography, illustrations, and other elements to capture
and maintain the interest of students. To begin to address this quality
issue, the MOE has unified the ERDC units of the North and the South, and the
integrated unit has embarked on a phased development strategy, involving the
immediate reissuance of some textbooks, the editorial revision of others over
the medium term (some 67 titles for general education have been unified as of
September 1991), and the development of a completely new curriculum and
textbook series over the long term. The USAID-supported project (para. 2.25)
is developing textbooks and teachers' guides in reading, mathematics, and
science for grades 1-3; these materials would need to be reviewed for
consistency with the planned new curriculum and subsequently field-tested and
revised, on the basis of feedback received from teachers, ti ensure that the
new materials are workable in the classroom. However, financial resources are
not available for thec¢ activities, and ERDC staff have little experience in
the field-testing and editorial-production phases of textbook development.
2.27     Textbooks are printed at the well-equipped MOE printing plants in
Sana'a and Aden as well as through contracts with foreign printers. The
Government contemplates increasing the productivity of the plants by working
additional shifts, in order to eliminate having to contract printing
internationally, and by retraining management and technical staff. As in many
other countries., textbook distribution is vroblematic. Information on
enrollments and school locations is unreliable, and this results in
warehousing problems and distribution delays. Freight services are provided
by the MOE as well as by private contractors, local education authorities, and
community associations. Although there are carefully drawn distribution
plans, there are no corresponding procedures for the monitoring of textbooks
actually distributed. Inventory control is rudimentary: stocks recorded
manually by MOE district offices at the governorates show inconsistencies,
suggesting difficulties in maintaining up-to-date records; and large
inventories indicate that a substantial number of textbooks do not reach rural
schools because of poor or absent transportation at the district level.
2.28     All the textbooks for primary, preparatory and secondary education
are provided at minimal fees (YRI 20 in primary schools) to pupils in northern
governorates, whereas school texts in southern governorates have been free of
charge for pupils, but are owned by the schools and are circulated for three
years. In the face of economic adversity, the Government has decided to
introduce a loan scheme whereby textbooks, the property of the school, would
be loaned to students who would be expected to return the books at the end of
the school year, for reuse by incoming students the following school year.
This new policy, planned for effectivity by the opening of the 1994 school
year, would have the effect of substantially reducing the absolute printing
demand. However, the nominal fees would be maintained.
2.29     In summary, the textbook issue has two dimensions: the quality of the
material itself and the efficiency of the production and distribution systems.
The former can be addressed through appropriate assistance in curriculum and
instructional materials development, the latter through management and staff
training. The introduction of these interventions is at present constrained
by limited governmental financial resources.
2.30     School supervision and student assessment are inadeguate.
Supervisors have no training, and many schools go unsupervised. This problem
is especially acute in rural areas, because most supervisors are able to visit



- 10 -
only urban schools and have limited access to remote schools. Moreover, what
little supervision does occur tends to be almost wholly administrative in
nature; there is almost no academic guidance available for teachers.
2.31     The current system of student evaluation constrains instruction and
learning by gearing them towards textbook-specific, narrow-focus objectives.
In the absence of norms or meaningful criteria, the "coverage" of the elements
of the textbook typical of those included in tests and exams becomes the
criterion that governs upward mobility in the system. Teaching methods are
frequently modified to serve the requirements of the evaluation system by
employing instructional strategies that promote recall and recognition of
content elements typical of those included in tests. The problem is
exacerbated in external evaluation, the main purpose of which is the selection
of students for the next cycle.
2.32     The Government is aware of the problems confronting educational
supervision and testing, and plans for training staff in the Department of
Guidance and Evaluation are being developed. However, as both local sources
of training and foreign exchange for contracting international training
consultants are limited, the effective implementation of those plans is
uncertain.
2.33     Financial resources need to be reallocated in the sector.  The
financial base for education deteriorated as the country went through a period
of slow growth and large budget deficits. External aid decreased, while the
return of emigrant workers resulted in a significant increase in demand for
government services.
2.34     The financial situavion will continue to be difficult during the
medium term. The Government realizes that, to prevent further deterioration
of the system in t;ie short run: (i) additional resources need to be mobilized
from the community, a practice which started off well in the 1970s but slowed
down in the 1980s; (ii) student recurrent cost levels should be reduced, in
terms of salaries (replacement of foreign teachers whose salaries are higher
than those of Yemeni teachers) and other expenditures (relending textbooks
instead of giving them to students); and (iii) expenditures on stipends could
be reduced by targeting them to women and deserving but poor students, a
practice already initiated at technical-vocational levels and under review in
the Secondary Teacher Training Project (Credit 2222-YEM). These and other
measures are under consideration and would constitute an essential part of the
ongoing dialogue with IDA.
D. ExRerience with Prior IDA Lending
Prior IDA Involvement in Education
2.35     IDA involvement in education and training in the former YAR consisted
of eight projects, with a total financial commitment of US$84.1 million. The
first project was signed in 1973, the last in 1987, to support primary teacher
training, vocational and technician training, engineering education, nonformal
education in rural areas, public administration training, and planning and
research capacity-building in the MOE (four projects have been completed). In
the former PDRY, IDA was involved in four education projects, with a total
financial commitment of US$25.3 million. The first project was signed in
1974, the last in 1984, to support the training of primary and vocational
teachers and rural extension personnel, curriculum and textbook development,



- 11 -
and school maintenance and manpower training programs (three projects have
been completed). The first education project for the unified republic was
signed in 1991, committing US$19.4 million for the improvement of secondary
teacher training programs at the Universities of Sana'a and Aden. In spite of
-^fectiveness and implementation delays (partly occasioned by unification and,
.ortly after, the Gulf war) resulting in slow disbursements, the ongoing
projects are generally meeting their objectives. In response to the
Government's urgent request for priority assistance in human resource
development following the Gulf war, IDA put in place an emergency recovery
project (Credit 2258-YEM) with a strong education component, while expanding
the scope and coverage of a human resources sector study. Interim findings of
the sector study were shared with the Government in June 1991, and the
development of a fi.ist project in basic education was planned for 1992.
Lessons Learned
2.36     In the past, delays were experienced in effectiveness and in
implementation. Delays in project effectiveness are a constraint, and will
continue to be so in the foreseeable future, as the governmental structure and
the general political environment continue the prozess of national
integration. In implementation, however, divisional portfolio management,
enhanced by departmental country implementation reviews and a procurement and
disbursement seminar conducted by IDA for all sectors in September 1991, has
produced significant improvements in site selection, processing of civil works
contracts, and payments processing--all of which will prove beneficial for
implementation of the proposed project.
2.37     The specific lessonks learned from completed and ongoing projects,
have been incorporated in the design of the proposed project. Among the
recommendations of PCR No. 8257 and PPAR No. SecM91-41 of the Third Education
Project (Credit 915-YAR), PCR No. 9927 of the Third Education Project (Credit
1222-YDR), and PCR No. 9188 of the Fourth Education Project (Credit 1203-YAR)
are the following: (i) project design should be compact, especially for
implementation in geographically dispersed sites and in projects for which the
number of trained staff is limited; it should also be flexible, to accommodate
the emerging needs of a changing environment; and (ii) agreement on the nature
and scope of and specific terms of reference for technical assistance should
be reached early on, so that the recruitment of consultants and the training
of Yemeni counterparts may begin in a timely fashion.
2.38     From the experience with ongoing projects, the following lessons are
evident: (i) project components should be self-standing, to enable other
donors to finance discrete items even during the course of implementation;
this would in turn enable IDA to reallocate resources (e.g., funds for
classroom construction) to extend the coverage of specific project
interventions; (ii) special attention must be paid to civil works, especially
to site selection and preparation and award of tenders; (iii) provision must
be made to address the known deficiency in the maintetnance of buildings and
equipment; and (iv) technical assistance can be effectively implemented
through "packaging," i.e., with one or two suppliers providing consulting
services, following an integrated plan for an entire project or series of
projects.
2.39     The design of the proposed project is compact (three self-standing
components) and flexible (classroom construction can be expanded should the
Government obtain additional financing later on). Sites and designs for civil
works have been identified and prepared; the provision for maintenance is



- 12 -
adequate in terms of project funds and community contribution. And packaged
technical assistance would be procured during the first year of
implementation.
E. Government Strategy and Dialogue with IDA
Government Strategy
2.40     The Government's policy is to promote universal primary education and
to eradicate illiteracy. About 13 percent of public expenditure goes to
education, equivalent to 5 percent of GDP. The development strategy for the
education and training sector of unified Yemen is still under preparation,
with improvement of learning in schools and expanding access at affordable
costs as agreed priority objectives for the next decade, with which IDA
agrees. This strategy includes: (i) expansion of primary education,
especially for females in rural areas, to educate equal proportions of women
and men; (ii) improvement of access of females to preservice teacher training
and upgrading the capabilities of the existing stock of Yemeni teachers
through inservice training; (iii) eradicating illiteracy and expanding
nonformal education; (iv) expansion and improvement of vocational and
technical education, with greater involvement of the economic sectors, to meet
emerging manpower needs; and (v) restructuring and reorganization of the MOE
to increase its efficiency in implementing education and training programs.
IDA Strategy
2.41     IDA's own strategy for unified Yemen was reviewed through the human
resources sector study discussed with the Government in February 1992. The
study recommended that any strategy for the improvement of education and
training should focus on two long-term objectives: provision of comprehensive
basic education for boys and girls in all regions of the country; and
improvement of the quality and focus of technical and higher education.
Considering the resource constraints facing the Government, the study further
recommended that in universalizing basic education over the medium term,
priority should be given to primary grades 1-6. In particular, access to
education should be extended to the rural areas, and equitable access should
be extended to girls; the deterioration in educational quality should be
arrested through improvements in teacher qualifications, curriculum,
instructional materials, student assessment, physical facilities, and research
and evaluation; and management capacity should be developed, especially in the
areas of planning and coordination, school inspection and supervision,
performance appraisal, and community involvement in school development.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01     The proposed project was confirmed by the Government during an IDA
identification mission in April-May 1991. Subsequently, four missions visited
Yemen: two preparation missions in June and September, a preappraisal mission
in November, and an appraisal mission in January-February 1992.



- 13 -
A. Proiect Obiectives and ScoRe
3.02     With the present economic crisis and the concomitant scarcity of
investment funds posing serious constraints, improvements in the education
sector must be realized with a minimum of new expenditures and by maximizing
the use of existing educational resources. Growth of quality and coverage
under these circumstances is still possible through increased participation of
the underserved segments of the population, especially female students in
rural areas, and improved performance of the existing system. This would
largely be achieved through targeting interventions related to access and
participation to selected groups, and providing inputs at primary level
(grades 1-6) directed at improving educational quality.
3.03     The overall objective of the proposed project is twofold: to increase
the school participation rate of girls in rural areas; and to lay the
foundation for improving the quality of basic education.
3.04     The proposed project would cover primary grades 1-6 of the nine-grade
basic education cycle and would be the first of a possible series of
operations in the subsector. It would provide incremental assistance to the
Government's ongoing program of school construction and would improve
educational quality through staff and institutional development. Certain
components of the proposed project, especially those related to quality
improvement (e.g., distance education teacher qualification, curriculum,
textbook, and achievement-test development) would favorably affect the other
levels of the education system as well. The inputs of the proposed project
are described below under three closely interrelated components.
B. Proiect Components
Component 1: ExRansion of Educational Access for Females
3.05     The proposed project would adopt two complementary strategies to
increase access to education for girls. First, the number of classrooms
available for female education would be increased through the construction and
furnishing of new classrooms (with sanitary facilities) in rural. areas where
girls are particularly under-represented in enrollments and through
strengthening the procurement management capacity of the MOE PIU, which would
undertake the classroom construction program. Second, female teachers would
be recruited or trained to staff the new schools through inducements such as
the construction of boarding hostels and the provision of study or
transportation allowances (for teacher trainees) and the provision of housing
or transportation allowances and, on a pilot basis, the construction of
housing units (for teachers).
3.06     Classrooms for Girls in Rural Areas (Proposed Outlay: US$13.2
million). To increase access to schooling by girls, the project would
construct about 600 new classrooms. From an initial list of 1,140 rural
communities potentially eligible for project assistance, 385 were selected,
following agreed criteria (rural communities of 1,000-2,500 inhabitants, where
female enrollments are less than 20 percent, according to the 1986 census),
and 204 were visited by teams organized by an MOE Working Group representing
the General Education Department, ERDC, and the MOE PIU for further
verification of eligibility. It is expected that, at the rate of three
classrooms per rural school (the current MOE average), the 600 project
classrooms would be located in about 200 rural communities spread out over 6-8



- 14 -
governorates.  The profile of the communities visit,d is described in Annex B.
The final selection of project communities would be guided by the following
priorities:
(a) Communities where there are no classrooms fcr girls at all or where
existing classrooms are not suitable (i.e., where classes are
conducted in temporary or rented shelter, in structures unsafe for
occupancy, or in the open air); or
(b) Communities with coeducational schools so overcrowded that girls are
discouraged from attending; and
(c) Communities ready to contribute land and labor, promote girls'
education. and participate in activities conducive to the welfare of
the school.
3.07     The MzOE would develop a memorandum of understanding with Local
Development Councils, People's Committees, or equivalent local bodies in order
to encourage ctnmunity involvement in project activities (para. 2.13). In
some cases, a three-person school welfare committee may serve as an
appropriate mechanism. The memorandum of understanding would specify that:
(i) girls would have priority admission to the new classrooms; (ii) a second
shift may be introduced where separate school sessions for boys and girls are
preferred; (iii) the community commits itself to provide land and the
necessary documentation for the new school construction, see to the
maintenance and repair of the school, and identify qualified and employable
female teachers or eligible female candidates from the community for teacher
training. The project's Working Group would monitor compliance with the
agreement by visiting selected project communities periodically during the
project implementation period. A specimen memorandum of understanding was
presented to IDA at negotiations.
3.08     The project would finance the construction and furnishing of the new
primary classrooms, which would include latrine blocks (four cubicles per
block) in about 200 selected sites at the rate of one latrine block for every
three classrooms. In addition, the project would provide funds for the
maintenance of the new classrooms and furniture as well as for the continued
operation of the Working Group (paras. 3.06, 4.11) charged with the task of
preparing the MOE master list of eligible communities through continued
verification and updating of community data during the life of the project.
3.09     The project would complement the MOE school-building program being
implemented by the Directorate-General for School Construction. With about
190 staff, the directorate is responsible for the management of the program to
construct about 1,000 schools in 1992-93. The PIU is a department of the
directorate-general (about 15 of the directorate staff are assigned to the
PIU) and has the capacity to manage the construction of 500 classrooms
annually. The project's annual construction average of 100 classrooms would
add about 20 percent to PIU current capacity. Although it is estimated that
the 600 classrooms would be located in only about 200 communities (the typical
MOE rural school has three classrooms), the communities themselves would be
located in several governorates. To strengthen capacity of the PIU to
implement the project's construction program over widely dispersed rural
areas, the project would finance the procurement of vehicles, and of minor
architectural and engineering equipment. The project would also provide funds
for the engagement of a short-term technical consultant (on low-cost school
design and construction) and long-term local consultants (field engineers and



- 15 -
clerks of works) who would assist in the management and supervision of the
construction and procurement program. The lccal consultants may be procured
outside of the integrated procurement package for technical assistance (para.
4.20).
3.10     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that: (i) the
Project Implementing Unit of the MOE would be maintained and provided with
adequate staffing to carry out che procurement and construction program of the
project (para. 3.09); and (ii) the communities in which project classrooms
would be built would be selected on the basis of agreed criteria (para. 3.06
and Annex B) and in accordance with the schedule set forth in Annex G.
3.11     Recruitment and Training of Female Teachers for Proiect Schools
(Proposed Outlay: US$6.0 million). To ensure that female teachers will be
available to teach in the rural areas where the project schools are being
built, the project would provide funds for a periodic promotional campaign to
recruit female teachers (Annex C); the provision of housing or transportation
allowance for female teachers; and, on a pilot basis, the construction of (and
procurement of furniture for) a limited number of b   ing units for female
teachers or teaching couples (para. 2.16). The deta. id plan for the
promotional campaign was presented to IDA at negotiations.
3.12     For the recruitment of female teachers who accept assignments in
project schools in remote rural areas currently lacking schools for girls, the
following incentives would be provided:
(a) Housing allowance of YR1 6,000 per year (or, on a pilot basis,
housing accommodations) for about 300 teachers coming from outside
the region of the project community to teach in project communities;
or
(b) Transportation allowance of YRI 4,000 per year for about 150 teachers
who commute from nearby communities to teach in project communities.
3.13     The provision of living quarters in a limited number of project
schools would be tested as an incentive for women teachers or teaching couples
to live and work in rural communities (para. 2.16). The ptoject would finance
the construction and furnishing of 10 teachers' quarters of two design
configurations: (i) four units (about 50 sq.m. per unit) each to accommodate a
married couple; and (ii) six units (about 60 sq.m. per unit) each to
accommodate three unmarried female teachers.
3.14     To make it possible for girls from distant rural areas to enroll in
teacher training programs, the project would finance the construction,
equipping, and furnishing of five boarding hostels, each for 60 female
teacher-trainees, at independent TTIs for females in the governorates of Taiz,
Hodeida, Ibb, Lahej, and Al-Mahra. The project would also provide funds for
the acquisition of basic training materials (books, journals, teaching aids)
for six existing, attached TTIs for females, to enrich the stock of learning
materials in those TTIs to which female teacher-trainees would be expected to
commute. In addition, the project would finance a portion of the incremental
salaries of new service staff who would be recruited by the MOE for the
administration and operation of the hostels as well as a portion of the
operational budget for the maintenance of project buildings, equipment, and
furniture.



- 16 -
3.15      The location and design of the hostels would ensure privacy and
would conform to local traditions, with protective walls and adequate
facilities (para 2.16). To assure parents and guardians of the privacy and
security of the boarders, the hostels would be administered and supervised by
qualified female staff who would be expected to enforce appropriate
regulations and house rules.
3.16     To encourage females from nearby villages to train as teachers, six
attached TTIs, in Hajja (Abs), Beida (Rada'), Dahmar, Saada, Shabwa (Ataq),
and Sana'a (Amran), have been selected as institutes to which female teacher-
trainees would commute daily from their home villages. These TTIs have been
determined as having adequate facilities, functioning with an acceptable
quality of training programs, and being close to villages targeted by the
project. The materials to be provided to these TTIs would include school
supplies, instructional materials, science kits, and reference books and
periodicals relevant to primary school teaching.
3.17     To enhance enrollment in TTIs of females from rural areas (especially
from project communities), the following incentives would be provided:
(a) Supplemental allowance of YR1 4,000 per student per year for about
300 female teacher candidates, with priority accorded to those from
project communities, who agree to be trained in supervised boarding
TTIs; or
(b) Transportation allowance of YR1 4,000 per student per year for about
300 female teacher candidates, with priority accorded to those from
project communities, who choose to commute to the nearest designated
attai.ed TTI for training.
3.18     The above allowances would be in addition to stipends and other
allowances regularly provided by the MOE to TTI students. Both the selection
of the teacher training candidates and their subsequent recruitment by the MOE
would be closely coordinated with the progress taking place in the related
school building program.
3.19     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that: (i) the
information campaign to recruit female teachers and promote enrollment of
females in TTIs (para. 3.11 and Annex C) would be launched by March 31, 1993;
and (ii) provision for the incentives for female teachers and teacher-trainees
(paras. 3.12-17) would be included in the regular budget of the MOE after the
project midterm review (para. 4.32)
Component 2: Enhancement of Teacher Effectiveness
3.20     Distance Education (Proposed Outlay: US$4.7 million).  To improve the
quality of teaching, a new training program would be developed, aimed at
providing unqualified teachers, including those secondary-level graduates
recruited to fill positions left by expatriate teachers (para. 2.20),
qualification equivalent to post-secondary teacher training. A Distance
Education Center (DEC) would be established and attached to the autonomous
Inservice Teacher Training Institute (ITI) supported by the Secondary Teacher
Training Project (Credit 2222-YEM). Policy guidance for the distance training
delivery mode would be provided by the ITI Council (organized under Credit
2222-YEM), while program coordination would be effected through a Distance
Education Committee chaired by the Deputy Minister for Training and Qualifying
with the following membership: ITI Director-General, ITI Deputy Director-



- 17 -
General for the DEC (committee secretary), the Director-General for Inservice
Training, and representatives of General Education, Guidance and Evaluation,
Planning and Finance, ERDC, and Ministry of Information.
3.21     Technical and administrative responsibility for the distance
education teacher training program would rest with the ITI Deputy Director-
General for the DEC. About 12 professionals would be recruited as the core
DEC staff for media production, planning and Lmanagement, academic programming,
and student support services. This staff would draw support from the regular
academic departments of the ITI. The organizational structure and functional
relationships as well as brief profiles of key DEC staff are given in Annex D.
3.22     Distance education would be delivered through a multimedia package of
printed self-learning materials, media programs through television and video,
personal contact sessions during summer vacations, student counselling, and
supervised practice teaching. The instructional materials developed under the
largely contact-based teacher training program of the Emergency Recovery
Project (Credit 2258-YEM) would be reviewed and revised, as needed, for the
largely print-based distance education program. Counsellors would be selected
from academic supervisors, TTI faculty or staff of the Faculties of Education
(FOEs) who would be given training for the purpose (para. 3.29). During
summer vacations, contact sessions would be conducted at 18 TTIs, one in each
governorate. Prior to admission of the first group of teacher-trainees, the
program would be reviewed jointly by IDA and the Government.
3.23     The program is expected to reach about 6,000 teachers during the
project period. Eligible candidates would be teachers: (i) who have been
appointed permanent (including those who have served the required national
service term and have chosen to join the teaching profession); and (ii)
recommended for training by the Director-General of Education in the
governorate. At the end of the training period, candidates would be expected
to pass a qualifying examination to be administered by the Training and
Qualifying Department. Successful completers would receive appropriate
documentary recognition from the MOE and the salary and benefits accorded to
fully qualified primary teachers.
3.24     The project would finance the following: (i) development and printing
of instructional modules for a distance education-based inservice teacher
training program; (ii) expansion of the building of the ITI to be constructed
in Sana'a as part of the Secondary Teacher Training Project (Credit 2222-YEM),
to accommodate facilities for the distance education program; (iii)
procurement of equipment, softwaze, furniture, and a vehicle for distance
education and of basic video equipment (camera, recorder) and supplies for a
distance education network consisting of about 18 existing TTIs in the
governorates; (iv) provision of technical assistance (short- and long-term
consulting experts and short-term international fellowships) and local
training for distance education; and (v) selected studies to be carried out on
training needs and on prospects for training females from rural areas. In
addition, the project would finance the incremental salary of new staff who
would be recruited for distance education as well as the operational costs,
including building and equipment maintenance, necessary for developing and
implementing the program. The distance education studies may be undertaken
(and, prior to effectiveness of the project, financed from current education
credits) by local consultants and undertaken prior to contracting for an
integrated technical assistance package (para. 4.20).



- 18 -
3.25     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that: (i) the
DEC would be organized and attached to the ITI (para. 3.20); (ii) the ITI
Deputy Director-General for the DEC would be selected in accordance with
agreed terms of reference and appointed by June 30, 1993 (para. 3.21 and Annex
D); (iii) the training needs analysis and the prospect study on distance
education studies (para. 3.24) would be completed by June 30, 1993 and August
31, 1993, respectively; (iv) the training program developed would be jointly
reviewed by IDA and the Government prior to admission of the first group of
trainees (para. 3.22); and (v) successful completers of the distance education
training program would be granted recognition in terms of qualification and
appropriate salaries and benefits (para. 3.23), the enabling ministerial
decree for which would be issued before January 1, 1994.
Component 3: Improvement of Educational Quality
3,26     Further to improve the quality of educational service, the proposed
project would provide equipment, technical assistance, and institutional
development to support the following elements: (i) curriculum and textbook
development capabilities at ERDC and typesetting capacity at the MOE Textbook
Printing Press (paras. 2 26-27); and (ii) development of standardized
achievement tests and enhancement of supervisory capacity at the Guidance and
Evaluation Department (para. 2.32).
3.27     Curriculum and Textbook DeveloRment (Proposed Outlay: US$0.7
million). Curriculum development activities would address key issues, among
them the adequacy of the school calendar, instructional time allotments per
subject area per grade level, appropriate school scheduling for one or more
sessions or shifts, the development of reading and mathematics skills,
curricular guidance for instruction in multilevel (two-grade) situations, and
educational materials free of gende.' tas. The materials in s_ience, math,
and reading, developed with USAIP    -stance, would be reviewed for possible
adoption or revision, as part -        planned new textbook series.  The staff
trained in the development of those materials would be integrated into the
appropriate subunits of ERDC (para. 2.25).
3.28     To assist ERDC to implement its ongoing program of curriculum and
textbook development for grades 1-6, the project would provide incremental
funds to supplement regular ERDC resources for materials (references,
periodicals, samples of instructional materials) and for field operations
(surveys, studies, conferences) needed for curriculum research, textbook
writing and field-testing. The project would also finance the procurement of
desktop publishing computers with the necessary peripherals and software for
textbook preparation and revision, graphic design, and final-page preparation
as well as the provision of technical assistance for staff development. To
enhance production quality and make coordination between ERDC and the press
more efficient, an identical desktop publishing computer system with
peripherals and software would be provided to the Textbook Printing Press;
short-term technical assistance on manufacturing quality control measures
would also be provided to the MOE press. In addition, the project wou'ld
provide funds for the maintenance of the equipment. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that: (i) established international practices
would be observed if translation or adaptation of copyrighted textbooks would
be undertaken in the textbook development subcomponent of the project; (ii)
the policy on lending and relending of textbooks would be made effective by
September 1, 1994 (para. 2.28); and (iii) the technical assistance for the
textbook subcomponent would include advice on effective alternatives for
textbook distribution (Technical Assistance Package).



- 19 -
3.29     Training for Supervision and Testing (Proposed Outlay: US$0.4
million), To help the Guidance and Evaluation Department to upgrade the
competence of its technical staff, the proposed project would finance the
provision of technical assistance for the training of supervisors on effective
school and teacher supervision and for the trai.ning of researchers on the
design and development of achievement tests (para. 2.31). The proposed
project would also finance the procurement of computers with the necessary
peripherals and would provide funds to augment the department's regular
appropriations for the writing, validation, and printing of standardized
tests. Finally, the project would provide funds for the maintenance of the
computers. The training of supervisors would also include the enhancement of
advisory skills so that they mey assume counselling responsibilities under the
distance education teacher training program (para. 3.22).
C. Monitoring of Specific Proiect Inputs and OutRuts
3.30     To keep information up to date, periodic monitoring, especially of
the intended effects of project interventions, would be undertaken. The
Training and Qualifying Department, through its offices in the governorates,
would prepare semestral reports on the following: (i) admission of female
teachers among the 6,3OO who are expected to be admitted into the distance
education program (para. 3.23); and (ii) cvrrent female enrollments in the
TTIs, identifying numbers of female students supported by the project through
the provision of boarding places (and supplemental allowance) or
transportation allowance (para. 3.11-18). The reports would be reviewed
during the regular meetings of the BECC (para. 4.09) and incorporated in the
periodic project reports of the PIU (para. 4.10).
3.31     The monitoring of female enrollments and female teacher deployment
would be based on information provided by the communities themselves. The
Working Group (para. 4.11) would, in addition to identifying eligible
communities and improving the selection methodology, keep records on all
project communities (and visit a selected number of communities already
participating in the project) in order to track the following: (i) number of
female students enrolled per grade level; (ii) number of female teachers
recruited; (iii) status of teacher housing occupancy; and (iv) number of
teachers provided transportation allowance. The Working Group would prepare
semestral summaries for the BECC (which would coordinate with the General
Education Department all actions relative to female student enrollment and
female teacher recruitment) and for the PIU (which would incorporate the
information and action taken by the BECC in its periodic reports).
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. MANAGEMENT. AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Cost of the Project
4.01     The total project cost is estimated at about YR1 479.5 million or
US$25.0 million equivalent, including taxes and duties (US$2.1 million
equivalent). Price contingencies between project appraisal (January 1992) and
the end of project implementation are estimated at US$2.7 million equivalent,
or 13 percent of base cost (US$20.3 million equivalent.) plus physical
contingencies. Total contingencies represent 23 percent of the base cost.
Major investment cost categories are construction and furnishing of classrooms



. 20 -
and hostels for females. Incremental recurrent costs will arise mainly from
incentives provided to female teachers and to female teacher trainees as well
as from salaries of new staff for the DEC and the new female hostels. The
estimated cost distribution by project component is shown in Table 4.1, while
the sunmmary of project cost estimates by category appears in Table 4.2.
Detailed cost estimates of each project component by category of expenditure
are shown in Annex E. The bases of cost estimates are briefly described
below.
4.02          Base Costs.  Base cost estimates are derived from: (i) unit costs for
comparable technical assistance and specialist services in the Secondary
Teacher Training Project (Credit 2222-YEM); and (ii) recent contracts for
Table 4.1: COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT
-----YR1 Million -----  -----US$ Million -----             X Foreign  S of Total
ComLonent                  Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total                Exchange  Base Cost
EDUCATIONAL ACCESS
Classrooms for Girls                 62.1     65.2    127.3       5.2       5.4     10.6            51           52
Female Teachers                       8.0      1.3       9.3      0.7       0.1      0.8            14            4
Female Teacher Trainees              32.2     16.8      49.0      2.6       1.4      4.0            34           20
Project Implementing Unit             0.3      1.9       2.2      0.0       0.2      0.2            87            1
Subtotal                         102.6    85.2   187.8          8.5      7.1      15.6           45           77
TEACHER EFFECTIVENESS
Distance Education                   25.8     19.8      45.6      2.2       1.6      3.8            4319
Subtotal                          25.8      19.8     45.6       2.2      1.6       3.8           43           19
EDUCATIONAL QUALITY
Curriculum and Textbooks              2.6      4.2       6.8      0.2       0.4      0.6            62            3
Supervision and Testing               1.3      2.3       3.6      0.1       0.2      0.3            65            1
Subtotal                           3.9       6.5     10.4       0.3      0.6       0.9           63            4
TOTAL BASE COST                        132.2   111.6   243.8         11.0      9.3      20.3           46          100
Physical Contingencies               13.2     11.2    24.4        1.1       0.9      2.0            46           10
Price Contingencies                122.7      88.7   211.4        1.6       1.1      2.7            42           13
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     268.1   211.5   479.6         13.7     11.3     25.0            45          123
NOTE: Project costs include an estimated 10 percent, or US$2.1 million equivalent, for indirect taxes on
on locally procured goods and ssrvices.
Table 4.2: COST SUMMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
-----YRI Million-           -----US$ Million -----             Foreign  X of Total
Categorv of Expenditure           Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total                Exchange  Base Cost
INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil Works                          71.6     71.6   143.2        6.0       6.0     12.0            50           59
Equipment                             0.6     12.1      12.7      0.1       1.0      1.1            95            5
Furniture                             2.4     13.6      16.0      0.2       1.1      1.3            85            7
Technical Assistance                  3.0     10.1      13.3      0.2       0.9      1.1            77            5
Deve'lopment Costs                   10.6      2.6      13.2      0.8       0.2      1.0            20            5
Total Investment Costs            88.2   110.0   198.2          7.3      9.2      16.5           55           81
INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
Incremental Salaries                 16.5      0.0      16.5      1.4       0.0      1.4             0            7
Incentives for Teachers              15.4      0.0      15.4      1.3       0.0      1.3             0            6
Non-Salary Costs                     12.0      1.5   _13.5        I.C       0.1      1.1            11            6
Total Recurrent Costs             43.9       1.5    45.4        3.7      0.1       3.8            3           19
TOTAL BASE COST                        132.2   111.6   243.8         11.0      9.3      20.3           46          100
Physical Contingencies               13.2     11.1      24.4      1.1       0.9      2.0            46           10
Price Contingencies                122.7      88.7   211.4        1.6       1.1      2.7            42           13
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     268.1   211.5   479.6         13.7     11.3      25.0           45          123
NOTE: Project costs include an estimated 10 percent, or US$2.1 million equivalent, for indirect taxes on
on locally procured goods and services.



- 21 -
primary school buildings and furniture awarded by the PIU. Technical
assistance costs per staff-month are estimated at US$8,000 for foreign
consultant services; US$2,500 for fellowships abroad; and US$500 for local
training. Incremental salaries and incentives fc female teachers are based
on the rates prescribed by the Government.
4.03     Contingency Allowances.  Project costs include a contingency for
unforeseen physical additions (US$2.0 million) equal to 10 percent of the
estimated cost of all project items. Annual rates of foreign price increases
have been estimated at 3.9 percent for 1993-94 and 3.8 percent for 1995-98.
Local price increases have been estimated at 25 percent for 1993, 20 percent
for 1994-95, and 15 percent thereafter.
4.04     Foreign Exchange ComRonent.  The foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows: (i) civil works, 50 percent; (ii) furniture, 85 percent;
(iii) equipment, 95 percent; (iv) technical assistance, 80 percent; (v)
overseas fellowships, 100 percent; (vi) incremental recurrent costs for the
maintenance of physical facilities, 0 percent; and (vii) salaries of local
staff, 0 percent.   The resulting foreign exchange component including
contingencies is estimated at US$11.3 million (45 percent of total cost).
4.05     Customs Duties and Taxes.  Project costs include an estimated 10
percent, or US$2.1 million equivalent, for indirect taxes on locally procured
goods and services. Equipment and software imported directly for the project
would be exempt from duties and taxes.
4.06     Incremental Recurrent Costs.  The new recurrent costs to be generated
by the project itself would consist of salaries of the incremental staff for
the DEC and for the new hostels for female teacher trainees, incentives to
teachers and teacher trainees, and building and equipment maintenance--all
estimated to cost about YR1 103 million over the six-year life of the project,
or YR1 33.5 million per year of a fully operational project (Annex E). This
annual recurrent cost is less than 1 percent of the 1991 MOE budget and is
deemed sustainable. However, additional recurrent costs are expected, as up
to 700 new female teachers may be recruited for the new project classrooms, an
increment of about YR1 34.5 million per year. The resultant recurrent cost
would total YR1 68 million, or 1.2 percent of the 1991 MOE budget (Annex F).
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
LOCAL
IDA         GOV'T         TOTAL     FOREIGN  EXCL.  DUTIES
Category            Amount   %   Amount   X  Amount   X    EXCH.   TAXES  & TAXES
*ivil Works            11.7    80    2.9    20    14.6   58        7.3     6.2      1.1
:quipment               1.2    95    0.1       5     1.3    5      1.2     0.1      0.3
'urniture               1.6    95    0.1      5      1.7    7      1.4     0.2      0.1
.evelopment Cost        1.1    80    0.3    20       1.4    5      0.3     0.9      0.2
.echnical Assistance    1.2    95    0.1      5      1.3    5     0.9      0.3     0.1
;alaries                1.0    60    0.6    40       1.6    7     0.0      1.4      0.2
:ncentives              1.0    60    0.6    40       1.6    7     0.0      1.4     0.2
'peration-Maintenance   0.9    60    0.6    40       1.5    6     0.2      1.1     0.2
'otal Disbursement     19.7    79    5.3    21    25.0  100    11.3    11.6        2.1



- 22 -
B. Proiect Financing
4.07     The proposed IDA credit of US$19.7 million would finance 100 percent
of the foreign exchange component of the project and about 60 percent of local
cost. The Government would finance the remaining 40 percent of local costs
(US$5.3 million). Project financing would be in accordance with Table 4.3.
C. Proiect Management and Implementation
4.08     The management structure for the implementation of the three
interrelated components of the project was designed to develop close
collaboration among implementing institutions, delegate decision-making to the
lowest appropriate levels, and develop managerial capacity in the sector.
Project coordination would be effected by the units described below
(implementation schedules are in Annex G).
4.09     AC.  Overall project management would be the responsibility of the
Minister of Education. The coordination of project activities would be
supervised by the Vice Minister of Education who would chair a Basic Education
Coordination Committee, composed of the heads or duly designated senior
managers of the Departments of General Education (GE), Training and
Qualifying, Guidance and Evaluation, Planning and Finance, ERDC and the PIU.
The BECC would have the following responsibilities: (i) the timely scheduling
and phasing of the work programs of the various sectoral implementing agencies
to ensure that planned targets are met; and (ii) maintaining liaison between
implementing units, between these units and sectoral management, and between
the education sector and other goN :nmental sectors. In addition, BECC would
help formulate strategies that would facilitate decision-making processes. At
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the BECC would be
established by January 1, 1993.
4.10     PIU.  Routine implementation activities would be handled by the PIU.
These would include the following: (i) all project procurement (civil works,
furniture, equipment, and technical assistance tendering and contracting);
(ii) detailed surveys of project sites; (iii) preparation of architectural and
engineering plans and construction supervision; and (iv) management of project
accounts and cost monitoring. the PIU would be the contact agency '.th IDA as
well as with other external agencies, prepare semiannual reports on project
performance, organize the annual and midterm reviews of project
implementation, and ensure that annual audits of project accounts and
statements of expenditures are accomplished on time and forwarded to the MOPD
and IDA. A project launch workshop with IDA participation would be arranged
by the PIU by the time of project effectiveness.
4.11     Working GrouD.  The ERDC-PIU-GE Working Group organized during
project preparation would continue identifying communities eligible to
participate in the project. It would also be responsible for the monitoring
of expected project outputs (female enrollments in project schools and in
project-assisted TTIs, recruitment of female teachers, among others). During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that the Working
Group would be maintained during the life of the project.
4.12     DMQ. The distance education teacher trailing subcomponent of the
project would be implemented by the DEC of the ITI through the Distance
Education Committee chaired by the Deputy Minister for Training and
Qualifying.



- 23 -
4.13     ERDC. Press. Educational Materials Directorate.  The curriculum and
textbook development subcomponents of the project would be implemented by
ERDC; textbook printing would be undertaken by the MOE Textbook Printing
Press; and textbook distribution would be undertaken by the Directorate-
General of Educational Materials (Planning and Finance Department).
4.14     Guidance and Evaluation Department.  The supervision and testing
subcomponents of the project would be implemented by the Guidance and
Evaluatica Department.
D. Procurement Arrangements
International Competitive Bidding
4.15     The procurement arrangements under the project are summarized in
Table 4.4. The procurement of equipment and furniture as well as of the
printing of modules for the distance education program would be grouped into
sizeable bid packages, estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more
per package, for international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
the "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May 1985).
In the evaluation and comparison of bids, domestic manufacturers would be
granted a margin of preference of 15 percent, or the relevant duty, whichever
is lower, in accordance with Appendix 2 of the Guidelines. Equipment and
furniture procured through ICB would account for about 85 percent of the
project requirements; the rest would be in minor packages, suitable for
procurement other than ICB (para. 4.17).
Table 44: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
CATEGORY            ICB      LCiB    OTHER      N/A       TOTAL
Civil Works                 -      14.6       -        -        14.6
-     (11.7)      -        -        (11.7)a
Equipment                 1.1        -       0.2       -         1.3
(1.1)             (0.1)                (1.2)
Furniture                 1.4        -       0.3       -         1.7
(1.4)      -      (0.2)      .         (1.6)
Development Cost          1.1b       -       0.2c     0.1d        1.4
(0.9)      -      (0.1)    (0.1)       (1.1)
Technical Assistance        -        -       1.3       -          1.3
(1.2)      -        (1.2)
Salaries                   -         -        -       1.6        1.6
-  -  -  (1.0)    (1.0)
Incentives                 -         -        -       1.6        1.6
-  -     -      (1.0)      (1.0)
Operation & Maintenance    -         -        -       1.5         1.5
(0.9)      (0.9)
Financing Requirement     3.6      14.6      2.0      4.8       25.0
IDA Financing             (3.4)   (11.7)    (1.6)    (3.0)      (19.7)
a. Figures In parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
b. Allocation for the printing of training modules for the distance education program.
c. AlLocation for sundry off-the-shelf items for curriculum, textbook, and test development.
d. Allocation for direct purchase of copyrighted materials, including copyright fee payments.



- 24 -
Exceptions to ICB
4.16     Civil Works.  Contracts for the construction of project facilities
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures,
since the contracts are small, widely scattered geographically and over time,
and would be unlikely to attract foreign firms. LCB procedures agreed with
the Government would: (i) incorporate explicit statements to bidders of bid
evaluation and award procedures; (ii) be advertised widely in local papers,
with bid opening in public; and (iii) not exclude the participation of
interested bidders from other IDA member countries. Bidding documents
developed during the IDA procurement seminar (November 1991) and adopted by
the Government's High Tender Board wruld be used in civil works procurement
under the project.
4.17     Equipment and Furniture.  Packages for the teachers' houses and for
the boarding hostels, each estimated to cost less than US$100,000 (not to
exceed US$500,000 in aggregate) and containing small quantities of items of
great variety, which would not be expected to interest volume suppliers, may
be awarded under international shopping procedures, based on comparing price
quotations from at least three eligible suppliers from at least two different
countries.
4.18     Off-the-Shelf Materials.  Purchases of miscellaneous materials,
supplies, and sundry items for curriculum, textbook, and achievement-test
development, each costing less than US$10,000 (not to exceed US$200,000 in
aggregate) may be made through prudent local shopping by comparing bids
obtained from at least three independent suppliers.
4.19     Copyrighted Materials.  Payments for the purchase of intellectual
property, including reference books and technical manuals, training packages,
audio-visual and materials in other media, computer software, and fees for
translation, adaptation, or reprinting of copyrighted material (not to exceed
US$60,000 in aggregate) may be made either directly to publishers, copyright
owners, or their authorized representatives.
4.20     Technical Assistance.  Qualified short-listed firms or academic,
service, or other institutions, including the services of individual
specialists, would be invited to submit proposals for a comprehensive package
of consultant services and fellowships in accordance with the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" (August 1981). The contracting of technical assistance
would be reviewed by IDA prior to the engagement of services, on the basis of
the agreed set of terms of reference and the scope and schedule for technical
assistance (summary in Annex I). To accelerate the contracting process, study
visits would be made by senior MOE officials to countries where distance
education is successfully being implemented and where firms or other
institutions providing educational consulting services are based. The study
visits would be arranged in conjunction with those of the Secondary Teacher
Training Project (Credit 2222-YEM). Upon their return, the senior officials
would prepare and issue solicitations for the packaged technical assistance
contract. A short list of international institutions proposed for the
distance education study visits of senior MOE officials was presented during
negotiations. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that: (i)
technical assistance would be contracted in one or two integrated packages
(paras. 2.37, 4.30); (ii) the study visits would be completed by July 31,
1992; and (iii) solicitations for proposals for technical assistance would be
issued by November 30, 1992.



- 25 -
4.21     Project Recurrent Costs.  Contracting and payment of incremental
salaries, incentives, and maintenance and other operational costs would be
made in accordance with local procedures acceptable to IDA.
Contract Review
1.22     IDA would conduct a prior review for each package that is to be
procured under ICB procedures in accordance with paras. 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the IDA Guidelines. Invitations to bid, bidding documents and the proposed
award of the first 10 civil works packages would also be submitted for IDA's
prior review. Prior review would also be required should subsequent civil
works contracts exceed US$100,000 in value (para. 4.24). For the technical
assistance contract(s), the short list of firms and individuals to be invited,
the proposed terms of reference, the budget, text of the letter of invitation
and the terms of employment would be subject to IDA's prior review and
approval.
Disbursements
4.23     The proposea project is expected to be disbursed in about 24 quarters
over the period, 1993-98 (Annex H), or six quarters less than the standard for
PDRY (30) and 12 quarters less than the standard for YAR (36). The
disbursement period is deemed feasible in view of the small size of the
majority (75 percent) of civil works contracts (typically US$45,000-US$100,000
per contract); other procurement items (equipment, technical assistance) are
of modest amounts. The credit Closing Date would be December 31, 1998.
Disbursements would be made as follows:
(a) 80 percent for civil works.
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment, furniture,
materials, and vehicles; 100 percent of the ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured items; and 85 percent for items procured
locally;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for technical assistance
including services of expatriate specialists and fellowships; 90
percent of local expenditures;
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local
expenditures for copyrights and development of instructional
materials; and
(e) 60 percent of expenditures for incremental salaries, housing and
transportation incentives, and operation and maintenance of project
buildings and equipment.
4.24     Disbursements for local staff salaries, housing and transportation
allowances, operation and maintenance costs, and for contracts for goods and
civil works valued below US$100,000 equivalent would be disbursed against
Statements of Expenditures, with supporting documentation retained by the PIU
for subsequent review by IDA supervision missions. Other disbursements would
be fully documented, including contracts for technical assistance and
training. The format of the Statement of Expenditure was agreed to at
negotiations. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government
would establish, maintain, and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA, a Special Account denominated in US dollars in the Central Bank of



- 26 -
Yemen. IDA would make an initial deposit of US$1.0 million into the Special
Account, which amount is judged adequate to meet about four months of
expenditure under the project. The Special Account would be replenished at
least every three months or when the amounts withdrawn exceed about one-third
of the authorized allocation, whichever comes first. Documentation for
replenishment would be as stated above. In addition, monthly bank statements
from the Central Bank would accompany each replenishment request. The minimum
size withdrawal application acceptable to IDA would be for not less than
US$50,000.
Project Accounts and Audits
4.25     Separate project accounts would be maintained by the PIU.  The PIU
has the requisite accounting expertise, as overseas training was provided
under the Fifth Education Project (Credit 1340-YEM) to improve accounting and
management capability. IDA supervision missions have confirmed that
accounting practices employed for the ongoing projects are satisfactory. The
Borrower is also in compliance with IDA audit reporting covenants; audit
reports satisfying IDA requirements are prepared annually by private auditors,
and the procedure would be continued for the proposed project.
4.26     Project accounts, including the Special Account, would be audited in
accordance with the "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of
Projects Financed by the World Bank" (March 1982). IDA would be provided
within six months of the end of each fiscal year by the Government with an
audit report of such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably request, including
a separate opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, on
disbursements against certified SOEs and on disbursements made from the
Special Account. The separate opinion should mention whether the SOEs
submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawal applications. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances, that a Special Account for the project would be maintained and
operated on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and in accordance with
IDA guidelines, and that all project accounts would be audited by persons
(using methods and procedures) acceptable to IDA.
E. Status of Proiect PreRaration
4.27     Proiect Coordination and Implementation.  Responsibilities for
implementation and coordination have been identified and delineated among MOE
institutional units.
4.28     Construction of Educational Facilities.  A list of about 385 (out of
about 1,140 initially identified) rural communities eligible to participate
under the project has been prepared. Detailed ergineering surveys are being
prepared on the sites for the first 100 classrooms to be built. A list of
locations for the first 100 classrooms, 10 teachers' houses, and five hostels
for female teachers--all on land owned by the MOE--was presented at
negotiations. Preliminary construction plans for the prototype primary
school, the DEC and the 60-capacity hostel were also presented at
negotiations.
4.29     Bidding Documents.  The PIU has on file standard bidding documents
for the procurement of civil works, equipment, and technical assistance which



- 27 -
are being updated following the procurement seminar conducted by IDA in Yemen
in late 1991. The updated bidding documents were presented at negotiations.
4.30     Technical Assistance.  An integrated technical assistance package for
international consultancies and fellowships has been defined, and terms of
reference for all consultant services and fellowships have been drafted. The
scope and scheduling of technical assistance (Annex I), as well as the concept
of procuring technical assistance in one or two integrated packages, have been
discussed and agreed with the Government. For distance education as well as
for curriculum, textbook, and test development, international technical
assistance would adapt concepts and procedures, proven successful in similar
countries, to the Yemeni educational environment, and train counterpart Yemeni
staff in management and implementation.
F. Proiect Reporting and Evaluation
4.31     ReRorting.  The PIU would prepare semiannual descriptive and
financial reports on each project objective, component, and activity.
describing the following details: (i) current status; (ii) deviations, if any;
and (iii) reasons for deviations and corrective actions being taken.
Reporting and IDA supervision would focus on in-depth reviews of the policy
framework for sectoral improvements, the consistency of activities for each
component and subcomponent with agreements reached at appraisal, performance
of the implementing groups and institutions, and assessment of emerging needs
for adjustments to project parameters. The bases of IDA supervision would be
progress reports and the annual evaluation of project activities (the IDA
supervision schedule is in Annex J). This would be supplemented by a review
of project expenditures and availability of financial resources, in addition
to substantive discussions with technical assistance staff in the various
components, and discussions with higher echelon officials of MOE. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that before October
1 of each year, a project technical and financial report identifying resource
requirements and actions necessary to achieve project objectives in the
following year would be prepared and discussed with IDA. Monitoring
indicators are in Annex K.
4.32     Midterm Review and Evaluation.  In view of the pilot characteristics
of elements of the project and ics intended future expansion nationwide, as
well as the need to evaluate the success of the campaign to increase girls'
participation in basic education, a midterm review of project implementation
would be conducted during the third year of project implementation or at about
midproject, to be mutually agreed between IDA and the Government. The midterm
review would: (I) determine implementation progress and ways to improve
project operations; (ii) allow an opportunity to effect changes in policy,
which may be desirable, based upon experience during the initial period and
emergent sectoral needs at the time of review, and effect the necessary
midcourse adjustments in project components and procedures; and (iii) identify
possible follow-up operations for continuity in IDA's involvement in the
sector. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(i) the midterm review of project implementation would be carried out jointly
by the Government and IDA on the basis of a detailed progress report that the
MOE would prepare before March 31, 1995 (three months before the scheduled
midterm review) and in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA;
and (ii) provision of funds for all project incentives, salaries, and
operation and maintenance would be progressively made by the Government in its
regular budget after the midterm review.



- 28 -
4.33     Within six months of the credit Closing Date, the PIU would compile,
at the request of IDA, project data and forward the same to IDA, for the
Project Completion Report, which would summarize project performance and
evaluate the project's successes and problems. Background documents and
technical papers are in the project file (Annex L).
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01     Educational Access and Ouality.  School-age girls in the rural
communities where the new classrooms would be built would benefit from having
increased access to primary schooling; and all students would benefit from the
quality improvements to be introduced in this project. The project would
establish a distance education delivery system that would initially benefit
4,000-6,000 teachers who would upgrade their qualifications in service;
eventually the system could be used for other forms of training and for other
educational levels. As the training would include supervisors and
headmasters, indirectly all teachers would benefit from the training programs.
With a new curriculum attuned to the present realities of Yemen, textbooks
free of gender bias, and with an evaluation process conducive to the
remediation of instruction, the ultimate beneficiaries would be all primary
school children. Because the project is specifically targeted to rural
communities, project benefits would accrue to the residents of those
communities who are among the country's poor.
5.02     Environment.  The project has been classified as "C" for
environmental assessment. The project subcomponents that would promote
environmental awareness are the following: (i) curriculum and textbook
development; and (ii) the self-learning instructtonal materials for the
distance education teacher training program.
B. Risks
5.03     The potential risks are whether primary-level girls would enroll in
primary schools as planned; whether female teachers would be available for
project schools; and whether the distance education system can be successfully
established. To mitigate the risk to female enrollment, prior agreement was
reached with the Government on criteria for selecting project communities,
including community participation in construction, maintenance, and the
identification of female teachers and teacher-trainees. To minimize risk in
female teacher recruitment, the project would provide incentives (housing or
allowance for housing or transportation) and actively promote recruitment
through promotional campaigns. To minimize risk in distance education,
technical assistance would be provided as an integrated package, ensuring
coordinated consulting input; the needed instructional modules would be
developed by revising those materials being written and tried out under the
Emergency Recovery Project (Credit 2258-YEM). Finally, the project provides
for a midterm evaluation, to identify weaknesses in intervention or
implementation, for correction and improvement.



- 29 -
C. Sustainability
5.04     The infrastructure being put in place would continue to be in use as
schools over the next decade, with affordable recurrent costs. Classrooms
have been designed for flexibility: the basic room can accommodate about 40
children either as one homogenous grade or in two-grade groupings for
multigrade instruction. Since community involvement would be a criterion for
eligibility for classroom construction, maintenanee of buildings would most
likely be provided. The distance education training system would co-operate
with the national television and the TTI networks as well as with the MOE
supervision system, all permanent features of the Yemeni environment. As has
been the experience in similar countries, the distance education system, once
in place, would require low recurrent costs to maintain it in operation. The
new recurrent costs that the project would be expected to generate (to cover
the salaries of incremental staff only as well as the maintenance of project
buildings and equipment) are low and could easily be sustained; indeed, it
will be much more than offset by savings that would be realized through the
cost-effective distance education training system (details in Annex F).
VI. AGREED ACTIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreed Actions
6.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) The MOE PIU would be maintained and provided with adequate staffing
to carry out the procurement and construction program of the project
(para. 3.10); the BECC would be established by January 1, 1993 (para.
4.09); and the Working Group would be maintained during the life of
the project (para. 4.11);
(b) The communities in which project classrooms would be constructed
would be identified based on agreed criteria and in accordance with
the agreed schedule (para. 3.10);
(c) The information campaign tn recruit female teachers and promote
enrollment of females in TTIs would be launched by March 31, 1993;
(para. 3.19);
(d) The DEC would be organized and attached to the ITI; the ITI Deputy
Director-General for the DEC would be selected in accordance with
agreed terms of reference and appointed by June 30, 1993; the
training needs assessment study and the prospect study of distance
education for females in rural areas would be completed by June 30,
1993 and August 31, 1993, respectively; the training program
developed would be reviewed with IDA prior to admission of the first
group of teacher-trainees; and successful completers of the distance
education training program would be granted recognition in terms of
qualification and appropriate salaries and benefits, the enabling
ministerial decree for which would be issued before January 1, 1994
(para. 3.25);



- 30 -
(e) Established inte'rnational practices would be observed if translation
or adaptation of copyrighted textbooks would be undertaken in the
textbook development subcomponent of the project; the textbook loan
policy would be effective by September 1, 1994; and the terms of
reference for the technical assistance for textbook development would
include a review of the distribution system for textbooks (para.
3.28);
(f) The study visits by senior MOE officials under terms of reference
agreed with IDA would be completed by July 31, 1992; technical
assistance would be contracted in one or two integrated packages; and
solicitations for proposals for the packaged technical assistance
contract would be issued by November 30, 1992 (para. 4.20);
(g) The Government would maintain and operate a Special Account for the
project on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA; all project
accounts, including the 'pecial Account and Statements of
Expenditure, would be audited by persons and procedures acceptable to
IDA (para. 4.26);
(h) The annual and midterm reviews of project implementation would be
carried out jointly by the Government and IDA in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to IDA: the annual report would be
reviewed with IDA before October 1 of each year (para. 4.31); for the
midterm review, the MOE would prepare a detailed progress report and
the terms of reference and present the same for IDA review by March
31, 1995 (para. 4.32); and
(i) Based on the evaluation of project performance by midterm, the
Government would, on a progressive basis, incorporate into its
regular budgetary appropriations the incentives for female teachers
and female teacher trainees as well as all other project-generated
recurrent costs (paras. 3.19, 4.32).
B. Recommendation
6.02     Subject to the above conditions, the project would provide a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of US$19.7 million equivalent to the Government of the
Republic of Yemen.



- 31 -
Annex A
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1 ENROLLMENT GROWTH IN PRIMARY GRADES 1-6
(Northern Governorates)
Male               Female            Total
School Year  Enrollment  X       Enrollment  X      Enrollment
1970-71         79,954  91           8,263   9         88,217
1975-76        224,907  89          27,168  11        252,075
1980-81        361,664  87          52,609  13        414,273
1985-86        729,958  80         177,512  20        907,470
1990-91        961,832  75         324,322  25      1,286,154
Table 2  ENROLLMENT GROWTH IN PRIMARY GRADES 1-6
(Southern Governorates)
Male               Female           Total
School Year  Enrollment  X       Earollment  X      Enrollment
1970-71        104,023  80          25,323  20        129,346
1975-76        135,653  67          67,965  33        203,618
1980-81        129,237  69          55,554  30        185,191
1985-86        163,604  69          74,790  31        238,394
1990-91        202,836  66         103,208  34        306,044



- 32 -                               Annex
Table 3 ENROLLMENT GROWTH IN RELIGIOUS SCHOOLS
(Northern Governorates)
School             Primary                  PreRaratory              Secondary
Year       Male   Female   Total       Male  Female  Total    Male Female Total
1981-82    28,711   5,051   33,762    2,380        90   2,470      533   10    543
1984-85    53,211  13,442   66,652    6,731    420   7,141         981   48  1,029
1987-88    72,165  21,625   93,840   15,196  1,143  16,339   3,310  153  3,463
1989-90    90,683  35.161  125,844   22,082  2,843  24,925   5,565  350  5,915
Table 4 BASIC EDUCATION TEACHERS BY SEX AND NATIONALITY
(1989-90)
Primary Grades 1-6              Unity Grades 1-8
Yemeni            Non-Yemeni           (All Yemeni)
vernorate   M      F   Total      M      F    Total    M      F    Total
ina'a City   765   710 1,475      300   250    550
ina'a Gov.   910    50   960   2,800   370  3,170
liz       2,805   701 3,506   1,998   150  2,148
)deida     1,007   512 1,519      692    45    737
:b         1,100   125 1,225   2,392   265  2,657
-hmar*
ijja         402    85   487   1,501   135  1,636
~ida        198    35   233       725   100    825
Lada         197    22   219      536    37    573
Lhweet       182    11   193      564    30    594
iarib        100     2   102      332    18    350
Lwf            4     0      4     141    18    159
yan                                                  1,240   994  2,234
ten                                                    397 2,093  2,490
idramout                                             2,583 1,041  3,624
hej                                                  2,267   613  2,880
lhra                                                   215    53    268
abwa                                                   800   100    900
,tal      7,680 2,253 9,933  11,981 1,418 13,399  7,502 4,894 12,396
data



-33 -                               Amex A
Table 5 PRIMARY-LEVEL TEXTBOOKS, BY GRADE AND SUBJECT
(School Year 1991-92)
No. of   No. of
No,  Grade        Textbook Title        Pages*   Colors
1      1      Islamic Education           68       4
2             Arabic Reading 1           157       4
3             Arabic Reading 2           136       4
4             Mathematics                110       4
5      2      Islamic Education           94       4
6             Modern Arabic Reading      254       2
7             Mathematics                107       4
8      3      Islamic Education          164       2
9             Arabic Reading             144       3
10             Mathematics                127       4
11             Science and Health         136       4
12             National Education          70       4
13      4      Islamic Education          164       2
14             Arabic Reading             160       2
15             Grammar Exercise           112       2
16             Mathematics                113       4
17             Science and Health          94       4
18             National Education         100       4
19      5      Islamic Education          148       2
20             Arabic Reading             170       2
21             Arabic Grammar             154       1
22             Ibn Al-Yaman                96       1
23             Mathematics                180       3
24             Science and Health         112       4
25             History of Yemen           128       4
26             Geography of Yemen         100       3
27             National Education          84       3
28      6      Islamic Education          304       2
29             Arabic Reading             160       2
30             Arabic Grammar             192       1
31             Khalid Ibn Al-Walid         80       1
32             Mathematics                144       4
33             Science and Health         112       4
34             History of Yemen           160       3
35             Arab World Geography       144       4
36             National Education         100       1
* The typical book format is 17 x 24 cm, (6.75 x 9.50 in.).
Source: Directorate-General of School Materials. MOE



-34-                                   AnnxA
Table 6  GROSS ENROLLMENT RATIOS AND FEMALE PARTICIPATION RATES
(School Year 1990-91)
Enrollment Female
Ponulaeion Ated 6-11*         1990-91 Enrollment                 tig     Part.
Governorate       Male      Femalg -     Male    -Female_ Total           Male Female  Rate
Beida            37,209    34,668         37,155     12,473     49,628    0.99  0.36    0.25
Dabmar           82,558    76,921         77,346     24,472    101,818   0.94  0.32    0.24
HajJa            91,861    82,338         80,428     11,592     92,020   0.88  0.14    0.13
Hodeida         116,279   107,256        111,980     25,138    137,118   0.96  0.23    0.18
Ibb             155,813   146,258         66,846     54,002    220,848   1.07  0.37    0.24
Jawf              4,651      4,334         5,749      2,036      7,785   1.24  0.47    0.26
Maarib           11,628    10,834         11,898      2,972     14,870   1.02  0.27    0.20
Mahweet          31,395    27,085         29,746      5,793     35,539   0.95  0.21    0.16
Saada            36,046    33,585         30,788      4,064     34,852   0.85  0.12    0.12
Sana'a City      43,023    41,169         64,598    54,907    119,505   1.50  1.33    0.46
Sana'a Gav.     150,001   141,924        158,796     31,932    190,728   1.06  0.22    0.17
Taiz            168,605   159,258        186,502     94,941    281,443   1.11  0.60    0.34
Abyan            48,837    43,336         34,576     17,047     51,623   0.71  0.65    0.33
Aden             39,535    36,835         28,614     23,934     52,548   0.72  0.65    0.45
Hadramout        70,930    66,087         59,548     32,986     92,534   0.84  0.50    0.36
Lahej            41,860    39,002         52,709     22,141     74,850   1.26  0.57    0.30
Mahra             6,977      9,750         3,838      2,328      6,166   0.55  0.24    0.38
Shabva           25,582    22,750         23,551     4,772      28,323   0.92  0.21    0.17
Total         1,162,790 1,083,390      1,164,668    427,530  1,592,198   1.00  0.39    0.27
Enrollment in
Religious
Schools**                                 99,751    38,677    138,428
Total                                 1,264,419    466,207  1,730,626   1.08  0.43    0.27
* The g8ov*norste-wlse distribucien of the 6-11 population was based on the Savernorate-wis distribution of
mles and femles aged 5-10 in -%a 1906 Cen.
lbe *estimte of enrolUt in r*L.&ious schools to based an the enollment of 00,663 males and 35,161
eamles in 1989-90 (Table 3).



- 35 -                              Annex
Table 7 QUALIFICATION OF BASIC EDUCATION TEACHERS
Oualification                     Number      X
YAR Primary Teachers (1988-89)
No Qualification                     257      5.1
Elementary Education                 185      3.6
Intermediate Education               210      4.2
Secondary Education                  412      8.2
5-year Program                     2,412    47.9
3-vear Program                     1,209    24.1
University Degree                    122      2.4
University Degree with Pedagogy       81      1.6
Unspecified                          145      2.9
Total YAR                  5,033   100.0
PDRY Unity Teachers (1989-90)
Trained                            7,197    53.0
Not Trained                        6,369    47.0
Total PDRY                13,566   100.0
Sources: MOE Statistics Directorate (YAR) and Statistics Book (CDRY)
Table 8 EDUCATIONAL PLAN, NORTHERN GOVERNORATES
(50-minute periods per week)
Primary Grade Level
Major Content Area            1   2   3  4   5   6   Total  Percent
Arabic Language                  9   9   9   9   9   9      54     28.7
Mathematics                      5   5   5   5   5   5      30     16.0
Art-Vocational Education         2   2   2   2   3   3      14       7.4
Social Studies                   0   0   2   2   4   4      12      6.4
Science                          3   3   3   3   3   3      18      9.6
Physical Education               2   2   2   2   2   2      12      6.4
Holy Qur'an                      2   2   2   2   4   8      20)
Islamic Education                6   6   6   6   4   0      28)    25.5
Total                           29  29  31  31  34  34    188    100.0
Source: EPDC Curriculum Department



-36 -                               Annex A
Table 9 EDUCATIONAL PLAN, SOUTHERN GOVERNORATES
(50-minute periods per week)
Primary Grade Level
Major Content Area            1   2   3   4   S   6   Total  Percent
Arabic Language                  9  10  10  10   8   7       54)
English Language                 0   0   0   0   5   5       10)    35.6
Mathematics                      6   6   6   6   6   6       36     20.0
Drawing                          1   1   1   1   1   1        6)
Music                            1   1   1   1   1   1        6)
Handicraft                       2   2   2   0   0   0        6)
Gardening                        0   0   0   2   0   0        2)
Polytechnic Education            0   0   0   0   2   2        4)    13.3
Social Education                 3   3   5   5   0   0       16)
History                          0   0   0   0   2   2        4)
Geography                        0   0   0   0   2   2        4)    13.3
Biology                          0   0   0   0   3   3        6)
Physics                          0   0   0   0   0   2        2)     4.4
Physical Education               2   2   2   2   2           12      6.7
Religious Education              2   2   2   2   2   2       12      6.7
Total                           26  27  29  29  34  35    180    100.0
Source: ERDC Curriculum Department
Table 10 CURRICULUM TIME DEVOTED TO MAJOR CONTENT AREAS
(Percent)
Northern       Southern       Low-Income
Major Content Area      Governorates   Governorates    Countries
Language                       29              36              37
Mathematics                    16              20              18
Art and Work Education          7              13              15
Social Studies                  6              13               8
Science                        10               4               7
Physical Education              6               7               7
Religious Education            26               7               5
Others                                         _                3
Total                         100             100             100
Sources: ERDC Curriculum Department and Primary Education, A World Bank Policy Paper (1990)



4 4_uS.
- 37 -
Annex B
PROFILE OF 204 PROJECT COMMUNITIES
The Survey
1.    From an initial list of 1,140 rural communities showing a female
enrollment ratio of 20 percent or lower in the 1986 census, the MOE selected
the 385 communities which had populations of 1,000-2,500. Of rhese
communities, 204 were visited in November 1991, by MOE teams representing the
General Education Department, Educatior.al Research and Development Center
(ERDC) and the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to verify the 1986 data and
gather new information. The latter included current enrollment levels by
gender, number of female teachers and of secondary and preparatory female
graduates in the community, number of classrooms and their use (as classrooms
and for other purposes such as teacher housing), whether land was available
for teacher housing, attitudes toward coeducation and double-shift school
sessions, and whether the community had electricity. The new data were
tabulated and stored at ERDC computers. The remaining communities would also
be visited, so that a master list could be prepared and used by the Basic
Education Project which aims to construct about 600 classrooms in eligible
communities.
2.    The data are preliminary and appear to have gaps (e.g., information on
room capacity was not gathered; the data do not show whether schools are
currently utilized in more than one shift) which need to be filled.
Nevertheless, they were sufficient for an initial analysis to determine which
communities best meet the project selection criteria, so that a number of
communities can be selected for the construction of the first 100 classrooms
under the project. The selection process itself would be refined during
project implementation, and the improved methodology would be used in
selecting the locations of the 500 other classrooms to be constructed under
the project.
Female Enrollment
3.    Of the 204 communities surveyed, it appears that since the 1986 census,
59 have increased girls' enrollment in primary grades 1-6 beyond 20 percent
(number of girls enrolled as a percentage of total enrollment). The remaining
145 communities reported from 0 to 20 percent female participation, with 52
reporting no girls at all in school (Table B-l and Chart B-1). Relating
communities to their respective governorates, Chart B-2 shows for 11
represented governorates the number of communities per governorate (number on
top of each bar) and the percentage female enrollment in each set of
communities.



- 38 -                             Amex B
Table B-1
FEMALE PARTICIPATION RATES IN 2OC PROJECT COMMUNITIES
Pa-ticipation        No. of
Rate (X)        Communities
0                52
1-10              48
11-20              45
Over 20             59
Total             204
NOTE: The Government could put priority
on communities exhibiting greatest need,
where female participation is lowest.
Alternatively, the Gov6rnment could
consider building new clasarooms in
communities in which increased female
participation might have a higher degree
of feasibilit , where some females are
already enrolled.
4.    The data show that the project's initial target of locating communities
in which to construct about 100 classrooms can be met. The Government could
well consider giving priority in classroom construction to those communities
with no girls enrolled.
Classroom OccUDancY and Housing for Teachers
5.    Cr2wding.  In the absence of data on number of students per classroom,
the occupancy rate of 30 was used, consistent with the current MOE norm for
the architectural planning of classrooms for rural schools.1 Using this
measure, only 30 communities appear to have sufficient accommodations, while
149 report having more than 30 students per classroom (data were not available
for 29 other communities). Of those communities with crowded classrooms, 106
report occupancy rates of more than 40 students per room (Table B-2). As can
be seen in Chart B-3, the project communities in Hajja, Hodeida, Lahej, and
Taiz report the highest numbers of students per room.
6.    The data suggest that the Government consider those communities with
serious overcrowding a priority target for the construction of the first 100
project classrooms.
1/    Under the proposed project, the typical rural classroom would
accommodate either a homogeneous class of 40 students or two groups of a
double-grade class of about 20 students per grade, in accordance with the new
MOE policy on completing grade groupings per classroom and limiting to two
levels per classroom the number of multigrade levels.



- 39 -                             Annex B
Table B-2
CLASSROOM OCCUPANCY IN 204 PROJECT COMMUNITIES
Communities      Classrooms
Communities with Students/Room at  with Land for       Used as
Governorate   30 or less  31-40 More than 40   Teacher Housing      Housina
Saada           1        2          3               5                3
Hajja           3        4         14              11                11
Sana'a          -        6         33              33               25
Hodeida         1        5         15              23                 5
Dahmar          1        -          5               3                 2
Ibb             3        5          5              10               13
Beida           1        2          2               5                0
Taiz            2        -          7               9                 3
Lahej           3        4         10              17                7
Shabwa          2        2          6               4                4
Hadramout      13        9          6              25                 7
Total          30       29        106             145               80
NOTES: To estimate occupancy, the number of students enrolled was divided by the not number of classrooma,
i.e., total number of classrooms less classrooms not used at all or used for other purposes (store room,
office, teacher housing). Totals for commities a e less than 204 because information was not available
for all coammities at the time of survey.
7.   S3ace Use and Land for Teacher Housing.  Crowding is also related to the
way that the communities use available classrooms. The data show that some
classrooms in the project communities are being used for other purposes,
namely as offices, storerooms, or teachers' accommodations. The latter use
accounts for some 80 classrooms among the 204 surveyed communities. (Table B-
2 and Chart B-4 show the surveyed communities from Sana'a Governorate, Ibb,
and Hajja to have the highest number of classrooms being used as teacher
accommodations.) At the same time, virtually the same communities using
classrooms to house teachers also report that in the community land is
available on which appropriate teacher housing could be built.
8.    Associating the data on land availability with those on the use of
classrooms for housing teachers suggests that the project could identify
locations where housing units could be constructed. With appropriate housing
facilities provided, the communities would then be able to return the teacher-
occupied rooms for class use.
Community Attitudes Toward Coeducation and Double Shifting
9.    Another alternative toward maximizing the use of available school
facilities is to employ a double-shift school session. Where community
preference is strongly for segregating boys from girls, a dottble-shift school
schedule would enable female students to attend school during one shift and
male students to attend the other shift. This would be even more feasible in
communities that have electricity, enabling full afternoon sessions during



- 40 -                              Annex B
seasons of short daylight durations. Table B-3 and Chart B-5 show how the
project communities view coeducation and double-shift scheduling as well as
the number of communities reporting availability of electricity.
Table B-3
ATTITUDES TOWARD COEDUCATION AND DOUBLE SHIFTS IN 204 PROJECT COMMUNITIES
Communities Not Objecting to      Communities
Co-          Double           with
Governorate         Education        Shift         Electricity
Saada                 0             2                1
Hajja                  3           16                4
Sana'a                 1           22               22
Hodeida                6           11                6
Dahmar                 2            2                2
Ibb                  16            16                5
Beida                  2            4                2
Taiz                   4            1                3
Lahej                 16           17                9
Shabwa                0             7                0
Hadramout              0            0                1
Total                 50           98               55
10.   All of the communities in Lahej would allow double shifts.  Other
positive responses are from communities in Beida (80 percent), Shabwa (70
percent), Ibb (69 percent), Hajja (64 percent), and Sana'a Governorate (56
percent).2 This intervention seem especially appropriate in the Shabwa and
Ibb communities which suffer from very low levels of female enrollment.
11.   The survey also indicates that some communities would allow coeducation:
Ibb, Lahej, Hodeida, Hajja, Taiz, Dahmar, Beida, and Sana'a are the likely
governorates. However, the communities in Saada, Shabwa, and Hadramout would
object to coeducation (but those of Shabwa would not object to a two-shift
school schedule).
Potential Supply of Female Teachers
12.   Female teachers are in short supply nation-wide, and the surveyed
communities show very small numbers of female teachers in service. Survey
data indicate, however, that there is a pool of preparatory-level (grade 9)
female graduates as well as secondary-level (grade 12) graduates that could
either be recruited outright by the MOE to join the teaching profession or be
trained in teacher training institutes (Table B-4). However, many communities
2/    Percentages attributed to a governorate are derived from data from the
preselected project communi.t;es only and may not represent the overall profile
of the entire governorate.



- 41 -                               Annex B
report the availability of only one or two preparatory or secondary
completers, making the MOE's task of providing at least three (for a three-
classroom school) or six (for a complete school) a challenging one.
13.   The project's promotional campaign, announcing the incentives for female
teachers and teacher trainees as well as the provision of boarding hostels for
females and the designation of selected teacher training institutes for
commuting female stude:ts, could be targeted principally at the project
communities in which the potential supply exists.
Table B-4
POTENTIAL SUPPLY OF FEMALE TEACHERS IN 204 PROJECT COMMUNITIES
Secondary Graduates    PreRaratorv Graduates
Governorate         0-2   3-5   6 or more    0-2   3-5  6 or more
Saada                 10     0        0         10      0      0
Hajja                 24     0        1          20     0       5
Sana'a                32     1        6         26      4      9
Hodeida               24     2        4          20     2       8
Dahmar                 7     0        0           5     0       2
Ibb                   20     0        3         20      0      3
Beida                  5     0        0           5     0      0
Taiz                   8     0        1           8     0       1
Lahej                 17     0        0          17     0      0
Shabwa                10     0        0         10      0      0
Hadramout             27     0        2          25     0      4
Total Communities   184       3      17         166     6     32
Suggested Next Steps
14.   Present data broadly indicate the feasibility of launching the proposed
project with the construction of the first 100 classrooms. However, the data
are indicative, rather than conclusive, and suggest: (a) refinement of survey
techniques; and (b) continued attention to the verification process. Under
the proposed project, the initial preparation group would be constituted as a
Working Group to undertake the above tasks. The expected output would be an
MOE master list of communities, in order of eligibility for project support.
The list could serve other MOE purposes as well. At the ERDC, the data could
enhance the recently restarted school-mapping exercise. Further, the same
list could be used as a basis for possible project cofinancing from other
donors inasmuch as the proposed Basic Education Project would support the
construction of 600 classrooms within the context of a much greater demand in
rural Yemen.



- 42 -                                Annex B
TdI. U.S
Samy of Dte for 204 froeet CmaItf's
-11  U   T                   AVIW.U         "KU            10         10       aWII
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                             Fe(   fl                     m TO      TO       AVAILMU
1t11I1      mm      ML.    MAL.  use as   m  AsTV        T tEA   lUaC3    tg.   gg.    mUra-   11n
_ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~      m _06 _ _   .                                                         .___
IIWA      1.31      INt     30      3         3         5          b         S       0        S          t           1
mm        4,140    215 n5            7 T                II        U          a      a_  _               1_  U
INARe     "Son7   iOt       54      In        25        3                   14a    zu         I         II           U
-nflm  TO,I  __         m a       s                  a n       aI         6      424      6          11          5
an          I, I^ Z                tO        5lS                           t*        *t
IMMt       1t,      44                        2          3         0         4        7                        2     a
en .
I       4,13    9         100               It        10         10       14      74       is         16           5
EIBM       _M so            4       40        0T                          -a       2          a         4
TAR       Id3.     5w      45       42       1          9          I        3       a        4          1           3
uJ        96w       ml       7      5         7    r     ?        11t       SW      1t2      16         IT           9
WA"S       I54      34      15      in        4          4         19        S       3                               0
-                         m~~~~~m a  -      -        -          -         -?                                      -
_t I                  *T    2                    
Chart B-1
Female Participation Rates In 204 Communities
TO
50-                                         4
0
0             1-10           11-20         Over 20
one ue hara f8*0 104 "e.um s



- 43 -                                 nnexB
Chart B-2
Female Enrollment as % of Overall Enrollment
60
30   . .. ........    . ... .............. .......                                        .... ...
30"
20
0
Saada  HaJa.  Sana.  Hod. Dahmr.  lbb   Belda   Talz   Lahel  Shb. Hadrm.
410)    (25)    (3a)      too)      (7)     4*6)    4()       (e)      (17)     (lo)     (2e)
Date Ge.terOd tFer 204 CoOmuunittis
Chart B-3
Number of Students per Classroom
100
80- 
so    .                  .                     .                                 .....  .. .......
60
40
20
Saada Hala. Gana. Hod. Dahmar lbb Belda Talz Lahel Shb. Hadrm.
(10)    4*0)    (60)    (so)        (7)     (*8)   (5)      (0)      I)       (o10)    its)
Dotle othee from *204 Commungles



. 44 -                      Annex  R
Chart B-
Space Availability In 204 Pr, ;ect Communities
250
2Q0
100      -             - .-.                                       -
50            -  -    -.-                                         -
Saada Halia Sana. Hod. Dahniar lb~b  Belda  Talz  Lah.l Shb. Hadrm.
Total Roomo AIb.                   Used as Classrooms
1  Usod as Teacher He.                  Land Available
Oda gealted from 104 ear uBIllS
Chart B-5
Co-Eduoation, Double Shift and ElectrilIty
120-
100-
40 -
20El
saada Haija Sana  Hod. Dahmar Ibb  Belda Tala  LhWl Shb. Hadrm.
_ Co-Education           Double Shifts        Eleotrolty Avib.
Sale getiflar ff0 304 OGmUdIlfl



- 45 -
Annex C
PROVIDING PROJECT CLASSROOMS WITH FEMALE TEACHERS
Background
1.    The Yemen Arab Republic had to depend heavily on expatriate teachers
when it started an active program of expanding enrollments with the establish-
ment of the Ministry of Education in 1963. At that time there were only three
preparatory schools and no secondary schools. Thus, there was no established
local source of teachers to cater for the sustained quantitative growth in
enrollments, requiring heavy reliance on expatriate teachers until the present
despite steady efforts and several projects to prepare primary school teachers
(C-1). Concrete and drastic steps were taken in September 1991, to speed up
the Yemenization of the teaching force, particularly at the primary level.
The plan is to Yemenize all primary school teachers by the fall of 1992.
Table C-1
Yemeni and Non-Yemeni Primary School Teachers in the North*
63-64  69-70  73-77  76-77  79-80  81-82  84-85  86-87  89-90  90-91
Yemeni    1,250  1,449  A,651  6,651  2,656  1,513  2,326  6,072 11,482 19,427
Non-Yemeni   28   57   274   333  4,111 10,187 12,944 12,121 15,115 12,143
Total    1,278  1,506  4,925  6,984  6,767  11,700 15,270 18,193 26,597 31,570
*  Excluding teachers in Ilmiyyah religious schools.
2.    The steady rise in enrollments has had an effect on modes of primary
teacher training. As might be expected, the shortage of teachers was
initially dealt with by adopting low standards for entry into the teaching
force or into teacher training institutions (TTIs). PrImary Teacher Training
Institutes (PTTIs) were started in YAR in 1963-64 with the opening of two
classes to prepare male teachers and, in 1966-67, of two classes to prepare
female teachers. The program consisted of training primary school graduates
for a period of three years. In 1981-82, this mode of teacher training was
transformed into a five-year post-primary program which is currently being
phased out. An alternative program was started in 1969-70 consisting of
three-year training for graduates of the preparatory school, referred to as
the General PTTI (GPTTI). In 1969-70 there were seven primary teacher
training institutes in the former PDRY enrolling 275 students in a three-year
post preparatory program which was changed into a four-year post-unity school
program in 1975.



- 46 -
Low Enrollment of Girls in Schools
3.    In spite of significant progress toward providing primary education for
a rapidly expanding population, a large gap exists between enrollment rates of
boys and girls. In 1990-91, female students accounted for only about 27
percent of enrollments in grades 1-6 throughout ROY. Research studies and
surveys in the former PDRY and YAR, involving mostly rural families, teachers
and local leaders, have indicated that the principal likely causes of low
female enrollment in rural areas are the following: (a) lack of female
teachers, a particularly strong deterrent for girls over 11 years; (b) lack of
special schools or classrooms for girls (coeducation is objected to in many
communities especially for girls over 11 years); (c) inappropriate school
hours (morning or afternoon, depending on special local conditions),
conflicting with demands from the household for work at home and in the
fields; (d) distant location of the school; (e) dilapidated schools which are
not maintained; and (f) high schooling expenses relative to typical rural
incomes. Consistent with a major finding of the studies, there seems to be a
consensus among MOE officials that availability of female teachers is the most
important factor restricting enrollment of girls, especially in rural areas.
4.    The problem of female education in rural areas is regional in nature.
In the southern governorates, all. schools are coeducational, although there
are communities with very low female enrollments. In a village near Taiz (in
a northern governorate), boys and girls study together from grade 1 till
secondary school. This extent of coeducation is not likely to take place in
other northern regions like Sa'ada. It is also reasonable to hypothesize
that, within certain locations, some scenarios or practices are more
acceptable than others, e.g. utilizing female teachers in a coeducational
primary school, or limiting coeducational classes to the lowest three or four
primary grades. In 1987-88, all 12 northern provinces had coeducational
schools ranging in number between 48 in the city of Sana'a and 1,084 in Sana'a
governorate.
The ProRortion of Female Teachers Is Low
5.    Available data indicate that, throughout the country, the overall per-
centage of female teachers is low, that there are variations across govern-
orates, and that the shortage is most acute in rural areas.  In the northern
governorates, only 14.9 percent of the primary teachers were females in 1987-
88 (62.4 percent of them Yemenis).  In 1990-91, data from 11 northern
governorates (excluding Ibb which in 1987-88 had 9.1 percent female teachers)
show that 12.4 percent of teachers were women. In fouir out of the six
southern governorates (excluding Mahra and Lahej) in 1989-90, the percentage
of female teachers in unity schools was 43.5. The variation among
governorates is reflected in the fact that the ratio of female to male
teachers was more than 4:1 in unity schools of Aden, while the corresponding
ratio in Shabwa was 1:8.
Low Female Enrollment In TTIs
6.    The number of female teacher trainees is very low, relative to males,
particularly for those who int d to teach in under-served rural areas.



two
- 47 -
Table C-2
Enrollments* of TTIs in 1990-1991
3-Year Model     4-Year Model    5-Year Model
l  GPTTIs      POST-UNITY          PTTIs     Total
Males             8,762             2,152          9,196       20,110
Females           1,009               426          1,142       2,577
Total Enrollment  9,771             2,578         10,338      22,687
Percent Female    10.3%             16.5%          11.0%       11.4%
*/ Excluding enrollments of TTIs attached to Ilmiyyah religious
schools, which totaLed 4.663 trainees in 1987-88, of whom 3,776
were in PTTIs and 880 were in GPTTIs. (MOE Educational Statistics,
Pp. 201-202.)
Table C-3
Evolution of Enrollment* in Northern Primary TTIs
1974-1975      1983-1984     1987-1988       1990-1991
PTTI   GPTTI   PTTI   GPTTI PTTI    GPTTI   PTTI   GPTTI
Males       307    267    2,345    772   9,344   1,845  9,196   8,762
Females     336    191      911    461   2,476      729  1,142   1,009
Total       643    458    3,256  1,233  11,820   2,574 10,338   9,771
% of Fm.   52.3%  41.7%   28.0%  37.4%   21.0%   28.3%  11.0%   10.3%
During 1990-91, enrollment of females in primary TTIs of 3, 4 and 5 years
duration was only 11.4 percent of a total of 22,687 (Table 2). Such a low
proportion of female enrollments in the TTIs exacerbates the problem of the
low proportion of current female teachers. Actually, there has been a steady
decrease in the percentage of female students enrolled in TTIs in former YAR
between 1974-75 (48 percent) and 1990-91 (11 percent excluding those in
religious schools). This is quite clear from Table 3, which reflects the
evolution of enrollment in TTIs in the former YAR. The decrease may partly be
attributed to the fact that TTIs in major cities such as Sana'a, Taiz and
Hodeida have stopped admitting new classes of females because of a reported
oversupply in the cities. It is generally clear that the expansion in teacher
training capacity has been in places for males. In the former PDRY, the
percentage of females in the TTIs was 24.6 in 1989-90.



- 48 -
Other Related Issues
7.    The following additional issues have a bearing on girls' education and
on attitudes affecting the source of female teacher training candidates and
the deployment of female teachers, especially in rural areas:
(a)   Equity or equality of opportunity between males and
females is a concept not subscribed to widely.
Without a significant increase in the participation of
rural and female populations in schooling, the
government will remain far from attaining universal
primary education. Tradition and culture have a
direct and effective influence hindering female
education. There needs to be concentrated
administrative and technical efforts directed at
enhancing education of girls. Without special efforts
directed at the isses, female education will remain
below required ambitions. Social and official
pressure is exerted in favor of the education of boys,
especially if resourcas are not sufficient to educate
boys and girls.
(b)   The problem of deployment of female teachers in rural areas can be
attributed to several factors: cultural constraints to appointing
females outside their region and sometimes outside their villages;
scarcity of teachers from rural regions themselves; and the fact
that rural areas are uninviting to educated females, especially in
view of the absence of electricity, running water, and muni-
cipal/sanitary facilities and services. Poorer living conditions
and limited facilities are compounded by the difficulty of multi-
grade teaching, especially when teachers have not been trained for
such classes. Unlike female teachers, male teachers have to
accept assignments irrespective of location, particularly when
they are in the national service.
(c)   It is not feasible to provide numerous TTIs in small rural com-
munities because of the small number of teachers needed in these
areas and of the small number of eligible candidates.
IDA Projects
8.    World Bank projects implemented during the period 1973-1990 included the
construction, equipping, and furnishing of many TTIs in addition to related
technical assistance. Some of these projects concentrated on diversification
of secondary education, higlher education, vocational/technical and informal
education, but a significant share dealt with teacher training. More
specifically, the World Bank supported the establishment of 23 TTIs (19 male
and 4 female) distributsd over 9 of the 12 northern governorates, with
boarding facilities for male TTIs, and with all necessary equipment and
furnishings. In addition, the projects included technical assistance
components, parts of which have been consolidated and are currently being
implemented for comprehensive development of the teacher training system



- 49 -
through revision of content and curriculum development, introducing an infor-
mation system, and training of cadres. With respect to the southern
governorates, there were 4 World Bank projects initiated between 1974 and 1984
which included establishment of primary teacher training institutes and
training of teacher trainers.
9.    Enrollment figures have very clearly been in favor of preparation of
male teachers. Not a single TTI of the few established for female teacher
trainees had boarding facilities. Actually, male teachers have been ill
greater demand because they can be deployed all over the country as they can
be pressured to accept an assigned location. In addition, the relatively
little progress in achieving wide coverage and gender equity in female
education can be traced to the very low and late starting point of the
educational system; the conservative nature of people in most areaa and their
sensitivity with respect to movement of females; and the widely scattered and
small communities. The difficult situation has been exacerbated by the
drastic reorganizational demands of unification and by the impact of the Gulf
War which resulted in the return of hundreds of thousands of migrants and in
the loss of foreign and regional financial aid.
MOE Initiatives
10.      The proposed Basic Education project has as one of its major goals
the enhancement of girls' education in rural areas where female participation
in schooling is very low. There is a consensus that provision of female
teachers is a major contributor to girls' enrollment. However, there was less
agreement on means that will secure female teachers to targeted rural commun-
ities. Accordingly, several options have been considered in the context of
the Yemeni culture and terrain. Those that have been judged to have a high
probability of success have been adopted in the project, some on a pilot
basis. The spectrum of ideas that were deliberated among and with MOE
officials for tackling the problem of low female enrollments in rural areas
included the following:
(a)   Providing incentives or allowances, including housing allowances,
to motivate female teachers to agree to teach in rural areas.
(b)   Providing a female environment in schools to encourage female
teachers from conservative families to participate in teaching in
these schools.
(c)   Exploration of the appointment of man and wife teams.
If necessary and as a final measure, resort to non-
Yemeni man and wife teams.
(d)   Provision of allowances for transportation or of means
for daily transportation of female candidates to
nearby PTTIs for training. This depends upon the
identification of qualified girls from under-served
rural regions, training them and employing them to
teach in the same region.



- 50 -
(e)   Increasing opportunities and providing incentives to attract
female teacher training candidates from educationally dis-
advantaged regions and communities.
(f)   Transforming the new PTTI in Sana'a into a teacher
training institute for females with boarding
facilities and recruiting trainees from under-served
regions.
(g)   Providing mobile PTTIs which could move to locations close to the
communities of candidates and could be shifted to geographic areas
in accordance with need.
(h)   Providing an alternative through distance educ.ation
for the certification of untrained teachers,
especially those in under-served areas.
(i)   Exempting girls in educationally-disadvantaged rural
areas from school fees or expenses related to
registration, activities and textbooks.
11.      Possible sources of supply of female teachers for project schools,
along with the number to be recruited from each of these sources, are given in
Table C-4 of this Annex.
Proiect Interventions for Securing Female Teachers to Project Schools
12.      A major goal of project interventions is to secure female teachers to
the rural communities where project classrooms would be built. A number of
alternatives for the provision of extra incentives were explored. The pro-
posed project would support provision of incentives for the recruitment of
female teacher training candidates and the provision of employment incentives
for female teachers who accept assignment in remote rural areas currently
deprived of schools for girls. Both the selection of the teacher training
candidates and their subsequent recruitment by the MOE would be closely
coordinated with progress in the related school building program. However, it
is impossible and even undesirable to attempt to restrict the training and
deployment of female teachers to match project classrooms exactly. Thus, the
measures will target project classrooms as a first priority but the benefits
are expected to spread and enhance fe-ile enrollment in non-project
communities.   Although the proposed interventions are modest relative to the
magnitude of the problem, they include several approaches which, if monitored
carefully, can point to the direction(s) for feasible and optimal future
interventions.
13.      Recruiting female teachers for project communities requires the
cooperation of-- and coordination among-- several subsectors and agencies,
especially those responsible for the selection of project communities, the
Training and Qualifying Sector, anL the General Education Sector. In view of
the expected scarcity of qualified females in potential project communities,
different approaches need to be pursued including the following:



- 51 -
(a) Identifying females in each project community with secondary
education and exploring the possibility of their appointment as
teachers, preferably after an induction training program; and
(b) Advertising the availability of teaching positions
with specified incentives in project communities to
trained female teachers (employed or unemployed). The
incentives are related to provision of housing or
housing allowance or of transportation allowance.
14.      Incentives for Teachers.  In order to attract female teachers to the
rural communities of the project schools, it was agreed that the following
incentives would be provided to female teachers recruited specifically for
project schools:
(a) Housing allowance of YR1 6,000 per year (or, on a pilot basis,
housing accommodations) for about 300 teachers coming from outside
the region of the project community to teach in project commun-
ities; or
(b) Transportation allowance of YR1 4,000 per year for about 150
teachers who commute from nearby communities to teach in project
communities.
15.      Incentives for Pre-Service Teacher-Trainees.  To enhance enrollment
in TTIs of females from rural areas (especially from project communities), it
was agreed that the following incentives would be provided to female teacher-
trainees in addition to any stipends or allowances provided regularly by the
MOE to regular teachers or teacher trainees:
(a) Supplemental allowance of YRI 4,000 for about 300 female
teacher candidates, mainly from project communities, who agree
to be trained in supervised boarding TTIs (in addition to free
accommodation, subsistence, and other regular stipends
provided by MOE to other TTI students). In order to make it
possible for girls from distant rural areas to enroll in
teacher training programs, five boarding hostels, each for 60
female teacher-trainees, would be constructed in the
governorates of Taiz, Hodeida, Ibb, Lahej, and Al-Mahra. The
location and design of the hostels would ensure privacy and
conform to local traditions with protective walls and adequate
facilities. To assure parents and guardians of the privacy
and security of the boarders, the hostels would be
administered and supervised by qualified female staff who
would be expected to enforce strict registration and other
house rules.
(b)   Transportation allowance of YR1 4,000 for about 300 female
teacher candidates mainly from project communities who choose
to commute to the nearest designated attached TTI for
training, if available. To encourage females from nearby



- 52 -
villages to train as teachers, six TTIs will be selected as
institutes to which female teacher-trainees would commute
daily from their home villages. Final selection of the
attached TTIs will be made after ensuring the continuous
functioning of programs; proximity to villages targeted by the
project; availability of adequate facilities; and quality of
teacher training program. Transportation allowances would be
provided to the communing students in addition to stipends and
other allowances regularly provided by the MOE to similar
students. Each of the TTIs would be provided by the project
with supplies, instructional materials, science kits, and
references relevant to primary school teaching.
Promotional CamDaign
16.      It is essential that MOE officials involved in the implementation of
this component of the project at all levels--central, governorate, and local--
be aware of the goal of increasing female participation in selected project
communities and subscribe to it. A combination of incentives and a sense of
accomplishment for contributing to national advancement are important but not
sufficient unless the people directly involved are familiar with the details.
Thus, there is a need for a promotional campaign that will reach the public at
large but which will concentrate on existing or potential female teachers and
female teacher trainees. The Department of Educational Information and
Publications of the MOE has a potential role. The informational campaigns
will be partially supported by the project in the amount of YRI 60,000.
17.      Female teachers for targeted project and similar communities will be
needed starting at different academic years which, in turn, will depend on
whether an existing primary school now mostly or totally serving boys will
introduce another shift for girls or whether a new school will be built to
accommodate girls. Further verification and enrichment of the data that were
collected about project communities is needed to determine (i) the number of
classrooms that need to be built; (ii) the possibilities for additional
shifts; and (iii) the readiness of available educated females in the community
to teach and/or be trained to teach.
18.      The promotional campaign is basically intended to secure female
teachers to project schools and trainees to TTIs of females with boarding
hostels. The variety of means that can be tapped includes distributing
memoranda or circulars to graduating female teachers and to education direct-
orates in the governorates; broadcasting in thi media; and advertising in
print media, mainly popular newspapers. UNICEF has had experience in
campaigns related to the health sector and may be approached for assistance.
The transmitted messages should be clear and should provide sufficient
information including the benefits or incentives for both female teachers and
teacher trainees. Both regular stipends and supplementary project incentives
or benefits should be highlighted. A major target group is female secondary
school graduates, who may agree to teach in pro4ect schools. In addition,
circulars targeting graduating preparatory or unity school female students in
project-related rural areas, particularly those who succeed in the respective
examinations, should explain the prospects of teacher training in nearby



- 53 -
attached TTIs with transportation allowance or TTIs with boarding hostels,
when built. Minimum qualifications that are required, the.
benefits/incentives, duration of training program, the number needed in each
category, and the obligations to teach after training need to be stated
clearly.
19.       Applications or statements of interest or enquiry should be addressed
to a well-defined MOE office at the central level with responsibility for this
component of project implementation. A record should be kept of all applic-
ations and they all should be answered. Certain criteria should be developed
to select from a pool of applicants with priority given to candidates who
belong to project or nearby communities.
Table C-4: Sources of Supply of Female Teachers for Project Schools
NUMBER TO
SO'URCE                    EVIDENCE OR ASSUMPTION            BE RECRUITED
Educated females in               Government survey of
project communities:              project communities
Secondary-level                           266                          50
graduates (grade 12)
Preparatory-level                         667                         300
graduates (grade 9)*
Teachers moving into              Project would construct                20
project communities               houses for female teachers
and teaching couples
Project would provide                 280
housing allowance
Teachers living in                Project would provide                 150
nearby communities                transportation allowance
*As many of these community-based female preparatory or unity school graduates as possible would be given
priority for training as teachers either by commuting to attached TTIs or by enrolling in TTIs with boarding
hostels to be constructed by the project. The trained female teachers would start teaching upon completion
of their studies, the earliest around the fourth year of the project (about 80 percent of all classroom
construction shall have been completed by then). In the meantime, male teachers could be recruited for
project schools inasmuch as some communities allow girls in the early grades to be taught by male teachers
(further, the Government survey shows that about 20 percent of potentially eligible communities accept
coeducation). As more female teachers from the community become avaelable, the number of teachers (from
other comunnities) being provided housing allowance could be reduced.



- 54 -
Annex D
DISTANCE EDUCATION FOR INSERVICE EDUCATION OF TEACHERS
Teachers and their Preparation
1.    Primary education is currently (1991-92) served by nearly 50,000
teachers, who come from a wide variety of pre-service backgrounds: 6 years of
primary education plus 5 years of teacher training (more than 47 per cent); 8
years of schooling plus 4 years of training; 9 years of schooling plus 3 years
of training; or 12 years of schooling with two years of training. There are at
least 10,000 permanent secondary school graduate teachers without any
professional preparation.
2.    Since 15,000 secondary school graduates are teaching in primary schools
on a temporary basis in 1991-92 as national service recruits, it is expected
that many more untrained primary school teachers will be appointed on a
permanent basis. Graduates of teacher training institutes are needed to
replace the remaining 3,000-4,000 expatriate primary school teachers and to
take care of expansion of the system and replacements. In order to ensure
greater participation of girls, more female teachers would also have to be
recruited for schools in rural areas.
Immediate and Future Tasks
3.    There are two tasks at hand.  To increase girls' enrollment, it will be
necessary to identify educated females in the community and educate and
qualify them for teaching in primary schools. For improvement of quality,
training will have to be provided to the untrained inservice teachers. These
two tasks should be considered as the immediate goal. The teachers who are
trained through distance education and who are successful should be declared
qualified and should be eligible for the benefits that accrue to other trained
teachers. Training will also have to be provided to the teachers who were
trained in the past, in order to improve their competence as primary teachers.
These tasks put together amount to training and qualifying a large number of
teachers and offering refresher programs to practically all other primary
teachers.
ADoroach and Structure of Distance Education
4.    More than 80 countries throughout the world have resorted to distance
education for continuing education and skill upgrading of the working
population and for taking education to remote rural areas and to populations
in dispersed locations. Distance education has been adopted not merely because
it is less expensive, but also because it car. be more effective with its
multimedia delivery mode with printed self learning material, media input
through television and radio, student counselling and personal contact
programs.
5.    The response to the challenge of inservice training of a huge number of
teachers is developing a distance education system and programs. Distance



- 55 -                              Qnnx D
Education aptly suits Yemen since it has a dispersed population; it needs to
take education to the door steps of girls and rural populations; it cannot
afford to take teachers out from the primary schools; and it has television
ccverage of nearly 85 per cent of households, a network of TTI infrastructure,
and some well qualified Yemeni scholars in the country.
6.    Distance education is a mode of delivery and as such can be used in
programs equivalent to a few wesks, one semester, one year or several years of
traditional instruction. The -node that is presented and discussed in this
annex focusses on an equivalence of two years but that should not preclude the
adoption of different programs that are adequately studied and justified and
professionally developed. The DEP under discussion is expected to comprise
the following elements:
(a)   Self-learning Modules (SLM).  In any distance learning system, the
quality of education is only as good as the q-ality of the SLM.
SIX should normally have a standard format: statement of module
and objectives, overview of the content, learning material in
structured format, built in self-checks, end of unit assignments,
module end tests, and responses to self checks.
The self-learning phase could be five semesters of 18 weeks each:
January-May and August-December, over three academic years.
(b)   Media Programs.  Media programs support self learning. The media
program would primarily consist of educational video programs
which could feature a variety of formats, including video
tutorials, video lectures, video documentaries and docu-drama on
innovative practices, and video demonstration lessons. If these
programs were telecast at least three times a week, the minimum
total number of telecasts would be 270 in five semesters. Since
each program should be repeated at least once, the total number of
programs to be developed is about 135 as a minimum. The programs
should also be made available in the contact centers for trainees
to view during summer contact programs.
(c)   Personal Contact Program (PCP): The main role of the PCP is to
provide support to learning through SLM and media. The primary
format for PCP is tutorial, to clarify aspects of assignments that
may not have been clear either through SLM or media, to ensure
questions and to share experiences. The purpose of PCP is not to
"cover the course." The PCP should comprise several types of
instructional activities: tutorials, critique of prerecorded
demonstration lessons, group discussion on video lectures, and
video-aided micro teaching for skill development. The PCP may
initially last six weeks with 30 hours of contact a week, during
the summer vacation and it should be implemented in three
consecutive summers. The duration of the program and its
feasibility should be reviewed during the mid-term review, or at
an appropriate time. Variations may then be proposed for
different categories of trainees.



- 56 -                              Armex D
(d)   Student Counselllng.  The objective of student counselling is to
provide assistance on a continuing basis during the self learning
phase. Each trainee would be assigned to a trained counsellor;
each counsellor would typically have 40 trainees attached to
him/her within the same district or governorate. The trainees
would write to the tutor seeking postal coaching and clarification
and/or call on the tutor on prespecified date and time for
consultation.
During the five semesters, it is expected that there would be at
least eight face-to-face counselling sessions, and several
instances of correspondence.
(e)   Supervised Teaching Practice (STP).  The STP is an activity of
extending the training through observing and supervising the
trainees on the job in their schools. This will include providing
feedback or assistance to the trainees in areas related to
implementation of teaching skills learned through micro teaching;
positive reinforcement for the teaching skills and quality
demonstrated; correction of the content errors or errors of
judgement of selection of methods and modes of communication; and
management of the classroom, from the angle of learning
optimization. Each trainee should typically have 20 supervised
lessons. These would be conducted by the supervisors when they
make their regular visits to schools.
7.    One advantage of distance education is that it is flexible enough to
adjust to the pace of individual students. The total time that can be made
available to trainees can be from 5 to 8 semesters, or two and a half to four
years. This flexibility will be particularly necessary for female teachers who
have to look after household chores in addition to the responsibility of
teaching. In distance education, the level of performance (competency level)
is fixed, but the duration of training is flexible. The proposed program
covering five semesters spread over three years is envisaged to incorporate
900 hours of self study, 90 hours of television programs, 40 hours of
counselling sessions, 540 hours of personal contact programs and 30 hours of
supervised practice teaching. The total of 1,600 hours of instruction would be
equivalent to 101 credits.
Organization
8.    A Distance Education Center (DEC) would be established and attached to
the Inservice Training lnstitute (ITI). The DEC would comprise, as given in
the organization chart (Attachment 1), a core staff of 10 members headed by a
Director General (DG) and a Deputy Director General (DDG). The core staff
would receive support from. existing staff of ITI. (A brief description of
each position is also given in Attachment 2.)
9.    The distance education program and its establishment in the ITI would be
supervised and guided by a Distance Education Committee. The Committee would
be chaired by the Deputy Minister of Training and Qualifying with the Director
General (DG) of the ITI, the ITI Deputy Director General (DDG) for the DEC



- 57 -                              Annex D
(Committee Secretary), Director General of Inservice Training, and
representatives of the General Education, Guidance and Evaluation, Planning
and Finance, ERDC--all of MOE--and the Ministry of Information. Coordination
with various agencies and ministries, including the Ministry of Information,
should be the responsibility of the Committee.
PreRaration
10.   The preparatory stage comprises program design and material development,
development of human rciources, development of facilities and building an
organization for implementation.
Program Design and Development
11.   One of the major preparatory actions would be to carry out a detailed
job analysis and training needs assessment for the teachers to be trained.
Based on that, a curriculum should be specially designed. Teacher training
being an applied area, it would have tremendous potential for developing into
a competency based training program, and that is what is recommended. The
training needs assessment study should begin as a preproject preparation
exercise. This can be done by qualified social science or educational
researchers frum ERDC or Sana'a University (terms of reference in Attachment
3).
DeveloDment of Instructional Materials
12.   The second aspect of preparation is the development of print and media
materials. The training needs analysis should provide the basis for
identifying the learning modules.  In the Emergency Recovery Project (Credit
2258-YEM), 242 modules are planned to be developed. These modules should be
carefully reviewed for adoption or adaptation in the DEP. Before launching the
DEP, the learning modules based on the needs-based curriculum should be
developed, tried out, revised  and printed. Similar preparation is warranted
in case of video programs.
Human Resource DeveloRment
13.   The third area of preparation is the development of human resources.
Unless capabilities to prepare learning materials and video programs and to
perform counseling develop locally, the system would not take off and could
not be sustained. At least 40 Yemeni scholars, teachers or teacher educators
should be trained as module writers. This training would be conducted by the
expert and returning fellow who would have undergone long term training on
module preparation in an appropriate institution.
14.   Similarly, capabilities have to be developed in the  production of video
films. The production crew have to be developed afresh. At least 40 persons
would be trained in video script writing by the consulting expert and 10
others would be trained in various aspects of video production. The Ministry
of Information maintains a training institute in radio and television
production in Sana'a which should be called upon to train educational video



- 58 -                              Annex D
production crew. The Director (Media) would be sent on a long term fellowship
to master the art of educational video production.
15.   To provide counseling support to the trainees, services of 200
headmasters of schools and 50 supervisors/subject specialists would be
drafted. They would have to be developed as counsellors. They would be trained
by the expert and the returning fellow who would have been trained on student
support services.
16.   Another aspect of human resource development would be training in
planning and management of DEP. The DG and DDG would be txained for two and
three months respectively. The Director of the Planning and Management
Department of DEC would be trained for six months with a fellowship. Besides,
the leaders of the MOE including the Minister, Vice Minister and some Deputy
Ministers would be sent on study tours of distance education institutions,
especially those offering teacher education. The study tours should cover
three clusters of countries, USA-UK one group, India-Sri Lanka-Thailand-
Indonesia-Australia as second group, and Jordan-Egypt-Pakistan as the third
group. Heads of all the TTIs to be chosen for housing the contact programs
and incharges of contact programs would be trained by the expert and returning
fellow.
17.   To support the human resource  development, a package of technical
assistance comprising 48 staff months of consultancy and another 40 staff-
months of fellowships will be provided.
DeveloRment of Infrastructure/Facilities
18.   There are two components of facilities.  These are space and physical
facilities, and equipment.
19.   The DEC would be housed in the ITI; its additional infrastructure would
comprise a small warehouse for packaging and dispatch of the material, a
studio for video production and audio recording, a software library, computer
room and few office rooms for -he DG, DDG and the Directors. The contact
centers would need to be furnished, one room, for contact classes, housing the
video equipment and software library.
20.   The DEC would be provided with equipment for video production. The
equipment should be compatible to the Television in ROY which is now using
Betacam and likely to change to a digital system in the near future. The
details should be worked out by the visiting specialist and/or technically
competent professionals. The DEC would also be provided with a Desk Top
Publishing System, a computer and a vehicle. The TTIs would be provided with a
VCR, television and a video camera.
21. The preparation would require approximately two years; the DEP should be
launched with enrollment of trainees in the beginning of the third year of
effectiveness.



- 59 -                              Annex
Implementation Schedule
22.   The project would be implemented in six years. It would take two years
to prepare the training software, and to train the necessary manpower before
launching the program. The actual enrollment of trainees should start in the
month of January of the third year. It is envisaged that each year, a maximum
of 4,000 trainees can be enrolled in the DEP.
23.   As part of implementation, an implementation report should be developed
annually detailing accomplishments vis-a-vis the project objectives and
targets. The midterm review should be held by a committee comprising senior
members of MOE and The World Bank/IDA.
Attachments
1 - Organizational Structure for DEC
2 - Profile of Key Personnel for DEC
3 - Terms of Reference for DE Studies



- 60 -                            Annex-D
Attachment 1
Organizational Structure for Distance Education Center at ITI
Ministry of Education   _ _ _  Interministerial
Committee
Inservice Training       - - - -I
Council
ITI Director-General           Distance Education
Committee
Personnel &
Administration
MIS & Other
Technical
INSERVICE TRAINING                           DISTANCE EDUCATION CENTER
Deputy              j
Director-General
-  Educational       [                          |Media Production| 
Management                                          PrdtUnition
Educational      .4              _Planning &
Research            l                        Management
Educational                r- - - - - - -   Academic
Evaluation                                 || Programs
-  Instructional       - -  - -         - - -       udent
Systems                                       Support
-  Guidance &                L - - - - - - -1
|Counselling 
I  E  LEGEND:    Administrative responsibility
----- Functional coordination
-  Distance education unit



-61 -                               Annex D
Attachment 2
Profile of Key Personnel for the Distance Education Center at ITI
The Distance Education Center (DEC) would be a small, compact unit attached
to the Inservice Training Institute (ITI) Sana'a. The number of full-time staff
would total about 10 and would consist of the following:
ITI Deputy Director-General for DEC
4 Directors (unit heads)
5 professional-level staff in media production
For all senior positions, a working knowledge of English woul1 be
necessary. This core staff would be supported by the ITI administrative and
secretariat staff with the necessary office equipment and furniture. As needed,
the staff would be expected to draw upon the expertise available in ITI, TTIs,
university faculty, the Audio-Visual Center of the MOE, the national television
network, and school supervisors and .ieadmasters.
DeRuty Director-General for DEC
A senior position, primarily responsible for execution of policies and
programs of the DEC.  A dynamic person with a fair amount of administrative
experience and an open mind would best suit the position. He or she would be the
link between the DG and the directors and thereby enhance the leadership in the
DEC.
Director for Academic Programs
The DAP would be responsible for curriculum development for inservice
training, preparation and production of learning modules, and training of module
writers. He or she should be able to enlist experts and draw upon their support
and services. The DAP should be able to work with consultants and derive benefit
out of a fellowship program for him. The DAP should be a specialist on teacher
education with training or experience in instructional technology and should be
able to develop and edit self-learning materials for DE.
Director. Media Production Unit
The DMED would be responsible for providing media support to the DE
program. He or she should be able to produce video programs, train script
writers and the video production team; maintain liaison with the national
television for broadcasting. The DMED should have experience in video production
and demonstrated talent for it. He should be able to work wich the consultant
and derive benefit out of the fellowship to be offered for training in video
production. (The other staff of the DMED would be cameraman, editor, graphic
designer, producer, and sound recordist. They need not be appointed until a
fully operational studio facility is set up in the DEC.)



- 62 -                              Annex D
Director. Student Support Services
The DSS would be responsible for training the counsellors and managers of
the contact centers; providing student support in the form of counselling,
organizing personal contact programs, providing timely feedback on student
response sheets and assignments.   The DSS ought to be a person with good
organizational skills and interpersonal relationships. He or she should ba able
to work with consultants and derive benefit from the fellowship to be offered for
training in management of student support services.
Director. Planning and Management
As planning and administrative head of the DEC, the DPM would be expected
to coordinate with other directors for material production and organizing student
services; and assume responsibility for the distribution of learning materials,
assignments,  and  feedback.    The  DPM  is also  responsible  for planning,
implementation, and evaluation of programs development of trainee MIS; and
personnel administration and finance, as direct assistance to the DDG. The DPM
should be a person with training and experience in management; able to work with
the consultant and learn from the fellowship to be offered for training in
planning  and  management  of  distance  education.    Although  the  minimum
qualificetion should be a master's degree (a doctorate would be preferred),
emphasis should be on the style of the person, orientation, and experience and
ability to learn.
Note: Director-General of ITI (Credit 2222-YEM)
As chief executive, he or she would be expected to support in establishing
the DEC, which could develop into a national open school system. A person with
vision, openness, and exposure to international education would best suit the
position. The DG should be able to work with the consulting experts and derive
the best out of their presence; maintain liaison with national and international
agencies, and provide leadership to the colleagues in the DEC. The DG can be
invited on term appointment for three to five years from the universities in
Yemen; he could be a Yemeni scholar currently resident abroad.



- 63 -                              Annex D
Attachment 3
Terms of Reference for Distance Education Studies
Inservice Training Needs Assessment Study
The primary objective of the study would be to carry out a Job survey of
primary teachers, and assess their training needs. The training need assessment
would form the basis for curriculum development for inservice education of
teachers. The study should lead to identification of teaching competencies for
primary teachers.
The proposed study should be carried out on a fairly large sample of
teachers including those who teach grades 1-3 and grades 4-6 in rural and urban
areas. The study needs to be completed before June of year 1 for review with the
experts/consultants who should join by July of year 1. The project would need
to be carried out by experienced and capable social science or educational
researcher(s).
Prospect Study of Distance Education for Educated Females in Rural Areas
The Basic Education Project envisages to involve educated females in rural
areas in teaching of girls. The primary objective of the proposed study is to
find answers to four sets of questions: (i) whether 12th grade students on
completion of their school graduation would like to join teaching profession;
(ii) how many of them would like to undergo teacher training through distance
education, (iii) how many of them would like to undergo t;acher training in a
fulltime course and stay in hostels, and (iv) how many girls would be permitted
by their guardian to join teaching in rural areas or stay in hostels.
The project should be carried out on a large sample (more than 1,000) of
12th grade students in or as close as possible to rural schools.
The study should be executed by capable and experieiced researcher(s) in
about 4 to 6 months and the report should be available by August of the first
year of project implementation.



- 64 -
Annex E
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING TABLES
Rehl=c of Yemen
Smic Et10csion Project
Suimry Account by Project Ceponent
YRt
Project           Curfecut                           Physicat         Prfce
Cleso.              Femate  Ilpmn  Dpistance   um *   Supervis                   Contingncies    ContingencIs
go for   Feate   Teachr   ting   Cducatfo Textbook   ion &                    -.------------------------------
Clais  Teachers Trainee    unit        n         a      Testing    Total        S    Asmlt       X  Ammt
1. ZIUSINENT COSTS
A . Civtt Vorks                     109.1      2.2      26.4      0.0       5.5      0.0       0.0    143.2      10.0      14.3   81.5    116.7
S. Equipment                          0.0      0.0       1.3      1.0       8.5       1.4      0.5     12.8      10.0       1.3   63.5       8.1
C . Furniture                        12.6      0.2       2.6      0.0       0.6      0.0       0.0      16.0     10.0       1.6   83.6      13.4
0 . Tochnt Assistance                 0.0      0.0       0.0      1.2       7.1       2.8      2.0      13.1     10.0       1.3   68.4       9.0
. Delopun t Cost                    0.0       0.0       0.3      0.0       9.8      2.3       0.9      13.2     10.0       1.3   84.4      11.2
,.Pts INWS1lNT COSTS                121.7      2.4      30.6      2.2     31.5       6.5       3.5    198.4      10.0     19.8   79.8    138.4
it. tEOCRENT COSTS
...................
A  OL alaries                         0.0      0.0       6.7      0.0       9.6      0.0       0.0      16.5     10.0       1.6  104.6      17.2
S . OU Incentives                     0.0      5.9       9.5      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      15.4     10.0       1.S  120.5      18.6
C . Oau other Egenses                 5.7      0.9       2.2      0.0       4.3      0.3       0.1      13.5     10.0       1.4  126.6      17.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 5.7      6.8      18.4      0.0      U.1       0.3       0.1     45.4      10.0      4.5  116.5       53.0
total MUAELIN COSTS                 127.3      9.3      49.0      2.2      45.6      6.8       3.6    243.8      10.0     24.4   86.7    211.3
Phsicat Contirencles               12.7      0.9       4.9      0.2       4.6      0.7       0.4      24.4
Price Contingencies               113.8      9.2      41.9      0.9      37.4       4.9      3.2    211.3       9.1      19.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                   3        1. 8               3.3      87.1    479.5                          9.1     43.6   ".1       211.3
T"ea                               18.8      2.6       9.9      0.1       7.7      0.8       0.4     40.2       9.1      3.7
Forefin Exchao                    128.8      2.0      29.6      2.8      36.3      7.4       4.5    211.4       9.1      19.2
Yatues Sated by 1000000.0 4/6/19i2 9s4T
Rtepbtic of Yawn
sc education ProJect
Sumry Accountc b Year
Totatl including Contingencies                    Totats Including Contingencies
1. iEnmeT eOst
A...Civil..........             0.0  42.9  109..  77.. ..5   0.0  274.3           0.0   2.8   6.1   3.8   2.0   0.0  14.6
1.2   2.2  I8L7  . 0.0   0.0   0.0  22.2         0.1   0.1   1.C   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.3
S.  ~~~          0.0   3.5  13.4   8.9   5.1 ~~~~~~~~~ 0.0  31.0  0.0   0.2   0.7   0.4   0..2  *0.0   1.6
:tetcl vimOtC 0.0=°  3-9.6.5  13;t.4  2S.9O.
0. Technical Assistence  0.5   6.6  ~8.2   8.0   0.0   0.0  23.4       0.0   0.4   0.5   0.4   0.0   0.0   1.3
I.  eelopmeat CSIStWO             0.6   1.6     .6 1.7 13 .62.                     0.1   0.1   0.5   0.5   0.1   0.1   1.4
.....................................................................................................................
Total, INETNE   CMT                .7.  159.5 101.0  51.0   1.5 376.6              0.1   3.7   8.9   5.2   2.3   0.1  20.2
ii. 1E[caRUT OSTS
A...0....salaries..1.1   2.7   6.3   7.4   8.5   9.5  35.4                         0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.:4   0.4   1.7'
A. ON1  nentSives                 00    06 57          .6 9.7  12.0  35.6          0.0   0.0   0.3   0.4   04   0.5  `1.?
C. cm1 Othe Expenss               0.3   0.6   1.:9  71.2   9.9  12.0  32.0         0.0   0.0   0.1   0.4   0.4   0.15  -1.5
Total hhOMEEN  COIs               14   3.9  13.9  22.2  28.1  33.5  103.0          0.1   0.3   0.8   1.1   1.2   1.4   4.8
Total PROJCT COMT                4.0  60.9  173.4  12.2  79.0  35.0  479.5         0.3   3.9   9.6   6.3   3.5   1.4  25.0
................... ..................................uu .uu.uu..........................



- 65 -                                    Ax  E
Republic of Yasne
Iaa   E ation Project
Projects Copwonnts by Year
Totale 11-4 !fW   Contingencies                       Totals Inctuding Contingencies
YR.                                                      S
...................... ........................................................... ..... .......    ..................................................
1993   1994   1995   19'16  1997   1998  Total       1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998  Total
A  Edational Acces
1. CLessrooms for Girls           0.1  30.9  74.4   88.7  54.0    5.8  253.8           0.0    2.0   4.1    4.4    2.4    0.2   13.1
2. FinIe Teachers                 0.1   4.5    1.7    2.9    4.3    5.9   19.4         0.0    0.3    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2    1.0
3. Feaset Teacher  traimas        0.2  10.2  50.5   10.2   11.7  13.1   95.8           0.0    0.7   '.8    O.S    0.5    0.5    5.0
4. Project l:ptelenting Unit       1.6    0.3    0.7    0.8    0.0    0.0    3.3       0.1    0.0   rI.O    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2
..................................................    ....................................................... I.........................................
SubTotal                              2.1   45.8  127.3  102.5  69.9  24.8  372.4          0.2    2.9    7.1    5.0    3.1    1.0   19.3
S . Teacher Effectivens
1. Distance Education             1.6  10.5  39.8   19.9    7.5    8.4   87.6          0.1    0.7    2.2    1.0    0.3    0.3    4.7
C . Educational Qtalfty
1. Curriutcun& Textbooks          0.3    4.2    3.2    2.S    1.1    1.2   12.4        0.0    0.3    0.2    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.7
2. Supervison & Testing           0.0    0.5   3.1    2.3    0.6    0.6    7.1         0.0    0.0    0.2    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.4
..................................................     ....................................................................... .........................
SbTotat                               0.3    4.7    6.3    4.8    1.6    1.8  19.5          0.0    0.3    0.4    0.2    0.1    0.1    1.1
Total PROJECTS COSTS                  4.0   60.9  17.4  1.2    9.0   35.0  479.5           0.3    3.9    9.6    6.3    3.5    1.4   25.0
,.................................................................................................................................
Value  Sled bV 1000000.0 4/6/1993  9:47
RepubtIc of Yemen
Baslc Educatfon Project
Financing Plan by Project Conponents
uss
Internatl Devt           Govt of
Assn                Yelmen                Total                       Local
......................-.-----......................                   For.      (Exct.    Duties
Amount       X       AMOut         X       Amout         X        Exch.   Taxes)   & Tax.
A . Classrooms for Girls                      10.6      80.5         2.6      19.5       13.1      52.4         6.?         5.5        1.0
B .Femalo Teachers                             0.6      65.2        0.3      34.8          1.0      3.9         0.1        0.7         0.1
C    Female Teacher Trainees                   3.7      73.4         1.3     26.6         5.0      20.1         1.7         2.8        0.5
D  . Project ImpLementing                      0.2      95.0         0.0       S.0         0.2       0.8        0.2         0.0        0.0
E    Distance Education                        3.7      78.8         1.0     21.2         4.7       18.6        2.0         2.3        0.4
F   Curriculum & Textbooks                     0.6      88.3        0.1      11.7         0.7       2.7         0.4        0.2         0.0
a . Supervislon & Testing                      0.3      89.5        0.0       10.5        0.4        1.5        0.2         0.1        0.0
Total Disbursement                            19.7      78.7        5.3      21.3        25.0    1O0.0         11.4       11.6         2.1
f...........................................................................................................
Values Scaled by 1000000.0  4/6/1992  9:47



- 66 -
Annex F
RECURRENT COST SUMMARY
(YR1 Million)
Capital Costs
Economic      10% Salvage      Annual
Cost Item     Investment           Life            Value      Depreciation
Buildings        274.2           30 Years           27.4           8.2
Furniture         31.0           10   "              3.0           2.8
Equipment         21.7           10   "              2.2           2.0
Total            326.9                                            13.0
OperatirA Costs
Cost Item                               Amount      X
Salaries:
DEC & Hostel Staff                      9.5       14
New Primary Teachers*                  34.5       52
Incentives to Female Teachers
& Female Teacher Trainees              12.0       17
Building-Equipment Maintenance
& Other Operational Expenses           12,0       17
Total                                    68.0      100
* Not part of project costs.
Annual Recurrent Cost (Depreciation + Operation):       81.0
Current expenditure on education (1991 budget):    5,688.1
Annual Recurrent Cost as Z of 1991 budget:               1.4
Salaries as X of 1991 MOE salary budget                  0.9
Notes
1.    Currently, primary-level textbook production and distribution account
for YR1 91 million annually because the full set of textbooks is given to
students and must be replenished. With the proposed textbook loan scheme,
textbooks would be reused for an average of three years (and resupplied only
on the fourth year), saving .Rl 60.5 million per year.



- 67 -                              Annex F
2.    The project would establish an alternatlve teacher training program of
distance education and during the six years of the project would train about
4,000 new teachers. The recurrent cost alone of equivalent training through
conventional means would have cost YR1 72 million per year, at the current
rate of YR1 18,000 per teacher-trainee (YR1 6,000 in training costs and YRI
12,000 in stipends), amount saved using the project's training program.
3.    The annual salary bill for the new teachers and staff of the DEC and
hostels (YR1 44.0 million) represents a 0.9 percent increase to the salary
budget of the MOE (YR1 4,953.6 million in 1991).



- 68 -
Annex G
DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES
Proposed Implementation Schedule: Civil Works
Year         1992         1993         1994          1995         1996         1997
Quarter 12             1   31 4       1      31   4 11  2 31  1234  21  34 
CLASSROOMS FOR GIRLS                          _
First proun: 100 classrooms
Site survey & acquisition
Preliminary plans & prototypes
Final plans & bidding documents
Tender period (60 days)
Bid evaluation & contract award
Construction period
Second arouc: 200 classrooms          _
Site survey & acquisition
Final plans & bidding documents
Tender period (60 days)
Bid evaluation & contract award
Construction period
Third group: 200 classrooms               ______                                            _________
Site survey & acquisition
Final plans & bidding documents
Tender period (60 days)
Bid evaluation & contract award
Construction period
Fourth group: 100 classrooms            _
Site survey & acquisition
Final plans & bidding documents                                                      EEL
Tender period (60 days)
Bid evaluation & contract award
Construction period
HOUSES FOR FEMALE TEACHERS
Same schedule as that for first
group of classrooms for girls
HOSTELS FOR FEMALE TEACHER TRAINEES
Site survey & acquisition
Preliminary plans & prototypes
Final plans & bidding documents
Ten,'r period (60 days)
Bid evaluation & contract awaro
Construction period
DISTANCE EDUCATION CENTER AT ITI
Same schedule as that for hostels
for female teacher trainees



- 69  -                                            Annex  G
Proposed Implementation Schedule: Distance Education Program
:992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
ORGANIZATION
Architectural design for the DEC
Identification of consultants
Appointment of DOG & key staff
Contracting of consultants
STAFF TRAINING
Study tours for senior MOE officials
Study tours & fellowships for staff
Module writers and script writers
Training of counsellors
PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT
Development of curriculum
Development of instructional modules
Printing of instructional modules
Revision of modules
Production of video programs
Development & updating of MIS
IMPLEMENTATION
Construction of DEC extension at ITI
Procurement of equipment & furniture
Delivery of equipment to 18 PTTIs
Training: first group of teachers
Training: second grotp of teachers
Training: third group of teachers
NOTE: Teacher training under the Emergency Recovery Project (Credit 2258-YEM) would be carried out from
1992 to 1994. During this period, the distance education system of the Basic f4ucation Project would
be organized and its programs developed; the instructional modules of ERP would be revised and adapted
for distance education, video programs would be produced, and staff for distance education would be
trained.   Amnission of the first group of about 2,000 teachers to the distance education teacher
qualifying program would start in 1995.



-70  -                                                Annex G
Proposed Implementation Schedule: Curriculum and Textbook Development
199             1199              1994             1995             199i             1997             1998
JFM   tJAS       JM                 M N AMJ JAS OND|JFM AMJ JAS OND JFM AMJ JAS ONO JFM AMJ JAS OND JFM AMJ JAS OND
WRITE  -FTEST  REVISE         PRINT-D ST I
Reading 1. 2, 3
Mati 1. 2,
Scd nce13
PLAN CURRIC ULU
WRITE   FIELD        R       PRINT-D ST
Reading 4, Math 4. Science 4                      7
Social |tud  [s 1 RI ilg       g10 I              I
WRITE            FIELD-TEST  REVISE  PRINT-0 ST
Reading 5|  Math 5. Science 5
Soci     tud es 2, Religion 2
WRITE            FIELD-TEST  REVISE  PRINT-D ST
Reading 6, M4ath 6. Science 6
Soc al  t            es I Ru Ieon                r
WITE            FIELD-TEST  REVISE  PRINT-D ST
Socjal tudi es 4. Religion 
NOTE:    Instructional materials being developed by ERDC staff with USAID assistance include textbooks and teachers'
guides for Reading (grades 1-3). Math (gradus 1-3), and Science (grades 1-3).  ERDC plans include the
development of a new curriculum, possible revision of the above materials to conform to the new curriculum,
and the development of textbooks and teachers' guides for the succeeding grades (4-6) in Reading. Math, and
Science as well as for the other subject areas including Social Studies and Islamic Studies.



- 71 -
Annex H
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
IDA Fiscal Year and        Disbursement       Cumulative          Z of
Semester Ending        During Semester   Disbursement         Credit
---------USS million----------
1993
June 30, 1993                   0.1               0.1               0
1994
December 31, 1993               0.1              0.2                1
June 30, 1994                   1.1               1.3               7
1995
December 31, 1994               1.6               2.9              15
June 30, 1995                   3.1               6.0              30
1996
December 31, 1995               3.9               9.9              50
June 30, 1996                   2.8              12.7              64
1997
December 31, 1996               2.5              15.2              77
June 30, 1997                   1.7              16.9              86
1998
December 31, 1997               1.3              18.2              92
June 30, 1998                   0.7              18.9              96
1999
December 31, 1998               0.8             19.7              100



- 72 -
Anr.ex I
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SUMMARY AND SCHEDULE
i: INTERNATIONAL TECHNICA. ASSISTANCE
EXPERT SERVICES               FELLOWSHIP TRAINING
TOTAL                          TOTAL
AREA OF                MONTHS/   STAFF-               MONTHS/   STAFF-
OMPONENT         DESCRIPTION       SPECIALIZATION      NO._    STAFF    MONTHS         NO,     STAFF    MONTHS
xpansion of    Project            Low-Cost
ducational     Management         Educational
overage                           Facilities            1          3        3                               -
nhanc4ment     Design and         DE MateriaL           1         12       12           1        3          3
f Teacher      Development of    (print)
ffectiveness:  Self-learning      Development
istance        Modules
ducation
Educational       Educational            1        12        12          1         9         9
Video Production  Media                                                 1         4         4
Student Support   Distance               1         3        3           1         6         6
Services          Education              1         9         9
Plaming and       DE Planning and        1         3         3          1         6         6
Management of DE  Management             1         9         9
Management            -         -         -          4        1.5        6
Study Tours                                          1         2         2
1        3         3
Iprovement
F Quality:
irriculum &    Curriculum         Curriculun            1          1        1           -        -          -
Dxtbooks       Development        Evaluation
Science Education    -          -         -          1         2         2
Population8           -         -         -          1         2         2
Enviromnent
Instructional         1        12        12          1         2         2
Design
Textbook Writing  Publishing             -         -         -          1         3         3
and Production    Management
Management                      -         -          2         1         2
Study Tours
Editorial             -         -         -          2         4         8
Management
Graphic Design        1         6         6          2         3         6
& Production
Desktop               -         -                    2        1.5        3
Publishing
Moe Printing       Printing              1         3         3
Press              Technology



- 73  -                                              Annex I
EXPERT SERVICES              FELLOWSHIP TRAINING
TOTAL                         TOTAL
AREA OF               MONTHS/   STAFF-               MONTHS/   STAFF-
COMPONENT         DESCRIPTION      SPECIALIZATION      NO.     STAFF    MONTHS        NO,    STAFF    MONTHS
Supervision &                     Scholastic
Testing                           Assessment            1         6        6                    -
Evaluation System    1         6        6           -        -
Design
Supervision and      1         6        6                              -
Training of
Trafners
TOTAL                                                      14                 91          24         -       67
PART 11: LOCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
LOCAL CONSULTANTS               LOCAL TRAINING
TOTAL                         TOTAL
AREA OF               MONTHS/   STAFF-               MONTHS/   STAFF-
COMPONENT         DESCRIPTION       SPECIALIZATION     NO.     STAFF    MONTHS        NO.     STAFF    MONTHS
Expansion of    Project           Design of
Educational     Management        Educational
Coverage                           Facilities           2        30       60               -              -
Supervision of
Construction         4       30       120          -        -          -
Enhancement     Video Production  Educational
of Teacher      for Distance      Media                  -        -         -         15        2        30
Effectiveness   Education
Educoatonal       School
Management        Administration*       -         -        -         200       1        200
Improvement    Educational         Academic
of Quwlity      Management         Supervision*         -         -         -         50        1        50
TOTAL                                                       6         -       180        265         -      280
*  The training program for supervisors (Guidance and Evaluation Department) and for headmasters (General Education
Department) or faculty of teacher training institutes and of Faculties of Education would include effective
counselling techniques, as the trainees would be expected to provide counselilng support to teachers taking
qualifying courses through the distance education program.



- 74 -                                    AnnexLX
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SCHEDULE
(Staff-Months)
TOTAL
1993    1994    1995    1996    INT'L  LOCAL
EXPANSION OF COVERAGE
Consultant                   -       3        -        -         3
Local Consultants:
Engineers                    -      12       24       24         -      60
Clerks of Works                     24       48       48         -    120
TEACHER EFFECTIVENESS
Consultants                  -      18       12       18        48       -
Fellowships                 5       30        2        2        39
Local Training:
DEC Staff                    -      20       10        -         -      30
Headmasters                  -     100      100        -         -    200
IMPROVEMENT OF QUALITY
Consultants                  -       7       21       12        40       -
Fellowships                  -       5        8       15        28       -
Local Trainine:
Supervisors                  -      25       25        -         -      50
TOTAL                            5*    224      230      199       158    460
- Provision for study visits by senior HOE staff and for initial studies to prepare the technical
assistance package for the development of the distance education, curriculum-textbooks, and testing
programs.



- 75 -
Annex J
PROJECT SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
IDA                                              No. of
Fiscal Year        Staff/Consultant Specialty    Staff-Weeks
1993          Education Specialist                8
Implementation Specialist           3
Distance Education Specialist       2
Curriculum Specialist               2  15
1994          Education Specialist                8
Implementation Specialist           3
Distance Education Specialist       2
Textbook Production Specialist    2  15
1995          Education Specialist                6
implementation Specialist          4
Textbook Production Spec'.alist    2  12
1996          Education Specialist                4
Implementation Specialist           4
Evaluation Specialist               2  10
1997          Education Specialist                6
Implementation Specialist          4  10
1998          Education Specialist                 6
Implementation Specialist           4  10
1999          Education Specialist                5
Implementation Specialist           4   9
Total Staff-Weeks                      81



- 76 -
Annex K
MONITORING CHART FOR CRITICAL PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Action
Project Activity                      Date        Output Indicator & Remarks
CLASSROOM CONSTRUCTION
Identification & survey of           APR'92       204 of 385 communities surveyed
eligible communities                              in 1992; priority listing to be
completed by JAN'93.
Preliminary plans &                  APR'92       Documents brought to negotiations
prototypes                                        & approved by IDA.
First group (100 classrooms)
-  Site survey & acquisition         APR'92       List brought to negotiations.
- Final plans & bid documents        NOV'92       Standardized draft (1991) adapted
for project & approved by IDA.
- Bid evaluation & contract          MAR'93       First 10 contracts reviewed by IDA.
- Construction complcition           JUN'94       Facilities turned over to MOE.
Second group (200 classrooms)
-  Site survey & acquisition         OCT'93
- Bid evaluation & contract          MAR'94
-  Construction completion           JUN'95
Third group (200 classrooms)
-  Site survey & acquisition         APR'94
- Bid evaluation & contract          OCT'94
- Construction completion            JUN'96
Fourth group (100 classrooms)
-  Site survey & acquisition         NOV'94
- Bid evaluation & contract          OCT'95
- Construction completion            JUN'97
GIRLS' ENROLLMENT*
1994-95     1995-96      1996-97     1997-98
First group  (100 classrooms)            680       1,360        2,040       2,720
Second group (200 classrooms)              -       1,340        2,680       4,020
Third group  (200 classrooms)                          -        1,340       2,680
Fourth group (100 classrooms)                          -                      680
* The expected occupancy of the new classrooms when all six grade levels are completed is 24.000 girls,
corresponding to designed capacity. The above estimates are based on the following: (a) an average of 3
classrooms per school and 2 grade levels per classroom; (b) new classrooms are either utilized exclusively for
girls or accommodate one shift for girls; (c) girls enroll in grade 1 and move to upper classes .a successive
years; (d) repetition rates cancel dropout rates; and (e) an average of 20 girls per grade level (half a
classroom).



- 77 -                              Annex K
Action
Project Activity                       Date       Output Indicator & Remarks
HOUSING CONSTRUCTION
Same steps, procedures & dates as                 6 housing units for 3 female
those for construction of first                   teachers each; 4 housing units
group of classrooms.                               for teaching couples completed.
HOSTELS CONSTRUCTION
Site, preliminary plans &             APR'92      Documents brought to negotiations
prototypes                                        & approved by IDA.
Final plans & bid documents           MAY'93       Documents approved by IDA.
Bid evaluation & contract             SEP'93       Submitted to & approv-d by IDA.
Construction completion               DEC'94       5 hostels turned over to MOE.
PRESERVICE TEACHER TRAINING
Admissions to 6 attached TTIs         SEP'93       First 100 candidates enrolled.
SEP'94      Second 100 candidates enrolled.
SEP'95      About 300 enrolled every year.
Admissions to 5 hostels               SEP'95       First 100 candidates from project
areas admitted as boarders.
SEP'96      Second 100 admitted as boarders.
SEP'97      About 300 admitted every year.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Study visits by MOE officials         APR'92      List of destinations brought to
negotiations.
JUL'92      Visits completed on IDA-approved
TORs.
Solicitation for proposals            NOV'92      TA contract in 1 or 2 integrated
packages.
TA contract packages                  JAN'93      Approved by IDA.



- 78 -                             Annex K
Action
Project Activity                     Date       Output Indicator & Remarks
DEC CONSTRUCTION
Same steps, procedures & dates as                Plar.s & procurement to be
those for construction of hostels.              coordinated with those for ITI
building (Credit 2222-YEM).
DISTANCE EDUCATION PROGRAM
Study visits for senior MOE staff   JUL'92      Other study visits: 1993 & 1994.
- Contracting of consultants )
- Program planning             )   JAN'93       Reviewed with IDA.
- Development of instructional)
modules                     ?
- Appointment of Deputy DG    )
& key staff                 )   JUN'93
- Training of module & video !
scriptwriters; counsellors )
- Procurement of equipment & )
furniture                   )   JAN'94
- Supply of materials &        )
equipment to 18 PTTIs       )
- Printing of instructional   )
modules                     )
Admission of first group
of teachers in program              JAN'95      Around 2,000 teachers.
- Revision of modules          )
- Admission of successive      )   JAN'96       Around 2,000 teachers
groups of teachers          )                admitted every January.



- 79 -                              Annex K
Action
Project Activity                      Date        Output Indicator & Remarks
CURRICULUM & TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT
Curriculum planning:
- Curriculum conference              APR'92      Recommendations approved by MOE.
- New unified curriculum             MAR'93      Draft approved by MOE.
First set of textbooks:                           Reading & Math 1,2,3 & Science 3
- Field-testing & revision           OCT'92       (developed with USAID assistance)
- Manuscript revision                APR'93      reviewed & approved by MOE.
- Printing                           JAN'94      Textbooks in schools in time
- Distribution                       JUL'94      for school opening.
Second set of textbooks:                         Reading, Math Science 4;
Social Studies, Religion 1
- Writing                            APR'93      ERDC writing teams organized.
SEP'93      Pilot lessons reproduced.
- Field-testing                      OCT'93      Pilot lessons in small sample of
schools.
- Manuscript revision                JUL'94      Feedback from tryout teachers
compiled.
DEC'94      Final pages approved by MOE.
- Printing                           JAN'95      Final pages at Textbook Printing
Press.
- Distribution                       JUL'95      Textbooks in school in time for
school opening.
Third & succeeding sets of
textbooks
- Writing                            APR         Specific titles & years
- Field-testing                      OCT         listed in Annex G.
- Manuscript revision                JUL
- Printing                           JAN
- Distribution                       JUL
ANNUAL & MIDTERM REVIEWS
Annual reports                       OCT          Technical & financial report
reviewed with IDA yearly.
TORs for midterm review              MAR'95       Approved by IDA.
Project review & preparation of
action plan                          JUN'95       Agreed with IDA.



-80 -
Annex L
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Apergis, Stavros. Policies for Moving Towards Universal Primary Education in
Yemen. October 1991. 17 pages.
Development Needs of the Education Sector (Yemen Arab Republic). Report No.
EFM/144. UNESCO, Paris. June 1989. 133 pages.
Education: The First Anniversary of Yemeni Unification. Directorate-General
of Planning and Statistics (Ministry of Education), Sana'a. May 1991.
92 pages. Arabic.
Human Development: Societal Needs and Human Capital Response (Republic of
Yemen). Report No. 9675-YEM. The World Bank, Washington, D.C.
January 1992 (green cover draft). 210 pages
Jurdak, Murad. Curriculum and Assessment Quality, Proposed Basic Education
Project (Republic of Yemen). October 1991. 18 pages.
Mukhopadhyay, Marmar. Distance Education for Inservice Education of Teachers.
February 1992 (draft). 16 pages.
Share, Monther (Amideast, Inc.). Teacher Training Institutes: An Assessment.
Training and Qualifying Department (Ministry of Education), Sana'a.
January 1992. 115 pages.
Statistical Yearbook 1990. Central Statistical Organization (Ministry of
Planning and Development), Sana'a. September 1991. 190 pages.
Strickland, Samira H. Basic Education in Yemen: An Overview, Issues and
Recommendations. July 1991. 20 pages.
Study of Reasons for Low Female Enrollments in Rural Areas of the Northern
Governorates of the Republic of Yemen. Summary. Educational Reserach
and Development Center (Ministry of Education), Sana'a. September 1991.
22 pages.
Syrjanen, Eero and Timo Paajanen (Opifer Ltd.). Textbook Subsector Study
(Republic of Yemen). October 1991. 48 pages.
Technical Assistance Package for the Proposed Basic Education Project,
Ministry of Education, Republic of Yemen. March 1992 (draft). 26
pages.
Zarour, George. Primary Teacher Training (Republic of Yemen). December 1991.
23 pages.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 23814
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0    SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
REPUBLIC OF YEMAEN                                           "                                                      ,= j  |o VERECwlO RoTEs
To Th-                 *      NATIONAL CAPITAL
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                   t  AIRPORTS
-   PRIMAARY ROAOS
TD                                                                                                                           r.                                 -     SECONDARY ROADS
I           A DI    ! A    I A                                                                                               TRACKS
Th-sod
WADIS
I L   I   '                                                \                           /            /                                           Ci~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OVERNORATE BOUNDARES
Meydi          /        od eh                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
*A~~~~~I                                                             /                                                                                                        _    _    _    _    _    _    _S'
-                                   I:; ';t', ;CsH. 
kHo4> ' IbbXf ajtoh 5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hy ooo_                                         _ Al OhwnyrSfl AlOlo~ 
IOydoN e                                                                                                                                        -                                   -   h /    thD
Sf ,                                                              Tur                                                        b     o      -  fk Th. WdbBko   B
Neno , ~     AmoNon                                                                                                                                                                    Goooss.The G d-oioo    ed
M                                                                                                                                        thm .% d. ..t i.p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; - tohTi e  ono wpi o  h
Z jy|o| j . , 1 + h IMnhwil  *                                                                                                                                                              pent or 4Erld    G5-o
wowS 50              DANA'A                          -         Dhohooh                                                                                                                 feh ...M  -   h   p
RAIl                                                                       A$.gh10.105 n¶eo *rte"o Os el
Al Hodnidoh.     A                MbsoAni  oo
RED SEA                      Ie,         - /  s     I       ~       w5,        *An   oooe
* lb          objon A         Redy
Hnyn  * Onteho   ~~~,!         [owdos         G-JLFFwADE
N    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~025 50    TOO    150
L  A                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOmETERS
rSOCOTRA
45'                                                      1                                                        45.                  oo:o      251554
12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
MXLRY 1992



