Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2412 YEM
                     (Basic Education Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 10, 1992
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2412 YEM
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Associa-
tion).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
Page  2
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
modified by the deletion of the last sentence of Section 3.02 (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
      (b)   "ERDC" means the Educational Research and Development
Center, a semi-autonomous governmental authority established and
operating under the Borrower's Law No. 40 of 1982, and any successor
thereto; and
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 14,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account
in Central Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  3
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
November 1, 2002 and ending May 1, 2032.  Each installment to and
including the installment payable on May 1, 2012 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, C (2) and
C (3) of the Project through MOE and shall carry out Part C (1) of
the Project through ERDC with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate educational, administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause the MOE to ensure that
girls have priority admission to schools that have classrooms
constructed under Part A (1) of the Project.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
Page  4
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than six months
                   after the end of each such year, a certified
                   copy of the report of such audit by said audi-
                   tors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                   Association shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records, accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                   to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
                   ciation has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts, or-
                   ders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
                   ments) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
                   cluded in the annual audit referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the report of
                   such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of expen-
                   diture submitted during such fiscal year, to-
                   gether with the procedures and internal controls
                   involved in their preparation, can be relied
                   upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
      Section 5.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  5
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Ministry of Planning and Development of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning and Development
            P.O. Box 175
            Sana'a
            Republic of Yemen
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                   CENPLAN                        2266 CENPLAN YE
                   Sana'a
                   For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                   INDEVAS                         248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.                 82987 (FTCC)
                                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                                   197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                         By /s/ M. A. Alaini
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ C. Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
Page  6
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works               7,700,000        80%
(2)  Equipment,                1,800,000        100% of foreign
     furniture,                                 expenditures,
     materials and                              100% of local
     vehicles                                   expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
(3)  Technical                   700,000        100% of foreign
     assistance and                             expenditures and
     training                                   90% of local
                                                expenditures
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)  Copyrights and              700,000        100% of foreign
     development of                             expenditures and
     instructional                              80% of local
     materials under                            expenditures
     Parts A (4), B (2)
     and C (1) of the
     Project
(5)  Salaries,                 1,800,000        60%
     incentives and
     operation and
     maintenance
(6)  Unallocated               1,800,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                14,500,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "salaries" means salaries of additional staff
for Parts A (1) and B (2) of the Project;
      (d)   the term "incentives" means housing and transportation
allowances under Parts A (2) and A (3) of the Project; and
      (e)   the term "operation and maintenance" means provision of
spare parts, materials, equipment and services for operation and
repair of educational facilities constructed under Parts A (1) and
B (1) of the Project.
3.Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 2
Page  7
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(a) increasing the enrollment of girls in primary schools, especial-
ly in rural communities and (b) improving the quality of basic
education through the training of primary-level administrators and
teachers and curriculum development.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Expansion of Educational Access for Girls
1.    Construction. (i) Construction and furnishing of approximately
      600 new primary classrooms in rural communities; (ii) con-
      struction, equipping and furnishing of approximately five
      boarding hostels for female teacher-trainees in the gover-
      norates of Taiz, Hodeida, Ibb, Lahej, and Al-Mahra; and
      (iii) construction and furnishing of approximately ten living
      quarters for housing married and unmarried female teachers for
      schools constructed under the Project.
2.    Incentives for Teachers. Recruiting female primary school
      teachers to schools constructed under the Project through
      provision of housing, housing allowances, or transportation
      allowances to female teachers.
3.    Incentives for Teacher-Trainees. Increasing the number of
      female primary school teacher-trainees through provision of
      incentives for commuting and boarding female students.
4.    Teacher Training Institutes. Improving the quality of primary
      school training through provision to selected teacher training
      institutes of instructional materials, science kits, and other
      supplies.
5.    Procurement Management Capacity. Provision to the Project
      Implementation Unit of technical assistance and equipment for
      strengthening managerial capacities in procurement.
Part B:    Enhancement of Teacher Effectiveness
1.    Construction. Construction, equipping and furnishing of a
      Distance Education Center through expansion of the Sana'a In-
      service Training Institute.
2.    Distance Education. (i) Development of a distance education
      in-service teacher training program for upgrading the qualifi-
      cations and competencies of primary-level teachers through
      preparation of a multimedia package consisting of printed
      self-learning materials, television and video programming,
      personal contact sessions, student counselling, and supervised
      practice teaching; and (ii) provision of training in prepara-
      tion of learning materials, production of television and video
      programs, and student counselling.
3.    Field Network. Establishment of a field network for distance
      education through provision of basic video equipment, vehicles
      and supplies.
Part C:     Improvement of Educational Quality
1.    Curriculum and Textbook Development. Capacity building in
      curriculum and textbook development through: (a) provision of
      materials, including desktop publishing software, computers
      and related equipment for textbook revision, graphic design
      and final page preparation; (b) carrying out of surveys,
      studies and conferences for curriculum research, textbook
      writing and field-testing; and (c) technical assistance and
      training for manufacturing quality control measures.
Page  8
2.    Training for Supervision. Provision of technical assistance
      for the training of supervisors and headmasters in effective
      school and teacher supervision, including management, tech-
      niques of supervision, pedagogic guidance, distance education,
      and counseling and supervisory support.
3.   Training and Equipment for Achievement Testing. Provision of
      technical assistance and equipment for: (a) capacity-building
      in national assessment of scholastic achievement; (b) the
      development of achievement tests; and (c) evaluation of trends
      in student performance and of the effectiveness of achievement
      testing.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
                           SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment and
furniture and for printing of instructional materials shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Yemen may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for works under Part A (1) of the Project may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least two different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$10,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Contracts for books, training materials, audio-visual
materials, copyrights and computer software, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $60,000, may be awarded after direct negotia-
tions with suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
Page  9
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to all contracts for goods awarded by
international competitive bidding, the first ten contracts for civil
works and any contract for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. To the extent practicable, the employment
of consultants to assist in carrying out Parts B (2) and C of the
Project shall be contracted in one or two packages. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall maintain the Project Implementation Unit
("PIU") established within the MOE with organization, staffing and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. This unit shall
at all times be managed by a Project Manager with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association.
2.    (a)   The Borrower shall cause selected staff of MOE, by
July 31, 1992, to visit countries where distance education is
successfully being implemented and to visit firms and other
institutions under consideration for the short list of consultants
to provide educational services under the Project.  The Associa-
tion shall approve such study visits, including staff selected and
scope of work to be carried out.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause MOE, by November 30, 1992, to
invite proposals from consultants to assist in carrying out
Parts B (2) and C of the Project.
3.    In carrying out Parts A (4), B (2) and C (1) of the Project,
Page  10
the Borrower shall obtain copyrights prior to the printing,
translation or adaptation of textbooks and other educational
materials.
4.    For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of the
execution of the Project and to coordinate its components, the
Minister of Education shall, by January 1, 1993, designate a Basic
Education Coordination Committee with organization and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, which Committee shall
include representatives of the General Education, Training and
Qualifying, Guidance and Evaluation, and Planning and Finance
Departments of the MOE, the ERDC, and the PIU.
5.    By March 31, 1993, the Borrower shall cause the MOE to develop
a promotional campaign designed to: (i) encourage female teachers to
teach in rural primary schools; (ii) publicize incentives designed
to increase the number of female teachers; (iii) encourage enroll-
ment of females from rural communities in primary teacher training
programs; and (iv) encourage parents and guardians to enroll their
daughters in teacher training institutes and in primary schools.
6.    An individual with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Association shall be appointed by June 30, 1993 to fill the
position of Deputy Director-General for the Distance Education
Center, on terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
7.    The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1993, cause the MOE to
establish the Distance Education Center included in Part B (2) of
the Project with an organizational structure satisfactory to the
Association.  In order to ensure that said Distance Education Center
shall enjoy the flexibility required to carry out its academic
activities effectively, said Center shall function directly under
the Deputy Minister for Training and Qualifying of the MOE with
oversight provided by a Distance Education Committee to be desig-
nated by and be directly responsible to the Deputy Minister for
Training and Qualifying. The Distance Education Committee shall
consist of the following: the Director-General for the In-Service
Training Institute, the Deputy Director-General for the Distance
Education Center, the Director-General for In-service Training of
the Training and Qualifying Department, and representatives of ERDC,
the Ministry of Information, and the General Education, Guidance and
Evaluation, Planning and Finance Departments of the MOE. The Deputy
Minister for Training and Qualifying shall be the head of the
Distance Education Committee, and the Deputy Director-General for
the Distance Education Center shall be its secretary.
8.    Prior to the admission of the first group of teacher-trainees
under the distance education program to be carried out under
Part B (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall review with the
Association a plan of action proposed to be carried out by the MOE
for the in-service distance training of primary school teachers.
Thereafter, on the basis of such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall carry out a distance education in-service training program in
accordance with a timetable agreed to by the Association, the
Borrower and the MOE.
9.    The Borrower shall cause MOE to carry out and complete, under
terms of reference which shall have been approved by the Associa-
tion:
      (a)   by June 30, 1993, a study to assess the in-service
training needs of primary teachers and to identify teaching
competencies for primary teachers; and
      (b)   by August 31, 1993, a feasibility study for training of
females from rural communities for primary school teaching.
10.   (a)The Borrower shall cause the MOE to certify teachers who
have successfully completed the in-service distance training program
and have passed qualifying examinations.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, by January 1, 1994, announce its
Page  11
intention to reward such certified teachers with appropriate
recognition and compensation.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, by January 1, 1996, ensure that such
additional compensation is paid to teachers certified as having
successfully completed the in-service distance training program and
having passed qualifying examinations.
11.   The Borrower shall cause MOE, by September 1, 1994, to
introduce a program for lending of textbooks developed under
Part C (1) of the Project to ensure that such textbooks are
available for relending during successive academic years.  The terms
of reference for the consultants to assist in carrying out
Part C (1) of the Project shall include a review of the distribution
system for such textbooks.
12.   (a)   Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, by March 31, 1995,
provide the Association with detailed information concerning:
(i) project activities and the progress achieved in increasing the
access of girls to primary education, especially in rural communi-
ties, and (ii) terms of reference for a midterm review of project
implementation.
      (b)   The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than
June 30, 1995, hold a mid-term exchange of views on: (i) progress
achieved in carrying out the Project and in increasing the access of
girls to primary education, and (ii) recommendations for an action
plan. Thereafter, on the basis of such recommendations and exchange
of views, the Borrower shall cause MOE to carry out an action plan
in accordance with schedule satisfactory to the Association.
13.   Commencing January 1, 1996, or such later date as the
Association shall agree, the Borrower shall ensure that progressive
amounts for: (a) incentives to female teachers and female teacher-
trainees, (b) costs of salaries of additional staff for Parts A (l)
and B (2) of the Project, and (c) operation and maintenance for
spare parts, materials, equipment and services for operation of
educational facilities constructed under the project, all such
amounts, satisfactory to the Association, are allocated in MOE's
annual budgets, so that such amounts are ultimately incorporated
fully into MOE's regular budgetary appropriations.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  12
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                   quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required pursu-
                   ant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which replen-
                   ishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
Page  13
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
