Page  1
June 30, 1997
H.E. Dr. Abdul Kader Ba-Ja'amal
Minister of Planning and Development
Ministry of Planning and Development
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Re:
YEMEN: Credit No. 2412 and Trust Fund No. 020254
Basic Education Project
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement 
Your Excellency,
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Yemen (the 
Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association) dated July 
10, 1992 (the Development Credit Agreement), as amended on September 29, 1994 and 
December 6, 1994.  We also refer to the request contained in your letter dated May 13, 
1997, and to the letter of Mr. Pieter Dorst to Dr. Osman Sheikh Ahmed dated June 3, 
1997.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association, after due consideration, has 
acceded to the above requests.  Accordingly, the Development Credit Agreement is 
hereby amended to read as follows:
1.
The definition of Special Account set forth in subparagraph (c) of Section 1.02 
is changed to read as follows:
 “‘Special Accounts’ means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this 
Agreement;
2.
Subparagraph (b) of Section 2.02 is changed to read as follows:
 “The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Credit and the Grant open and maintain in 
US Dollars separate special deposit accounts in  its Central Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, each 
respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement.
3.
Paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 is modified as follows:
(i)
the word “and” at the end of subparagraph (a) is deleted;
(ii)
the period at the end of subparagraph (b) is replaced by “; 
and”; and
(iii)
a new subparagraph (f) is added to read as follows:
“(f)      the term “PIU Costs” means expenditures for office 
equipment, supplies, telephone, utility charges and salaries 
of personnel in the PIU.”
4.
Schedule 5 is amended to read as follows:
“Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
Page  2
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
in respect of the Special Account for the Credit and an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for the Grant to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and Grant Account and deposited into the respective Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule.    
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests 
for deposits into the respective Special Account at 
such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the respective Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
Page  3
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Credit and Grant Accounts of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit and Grant Accounts for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General  Conditions.”
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments, by signing and 
dating the  confirmation on the enclosed copy of this letter and returning it to us.
This amendment shall apply to expenditures incurred after May 1, 1997.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, 
on its own behalf and Acting as Administrator
on behalf of The Minister for Development Cooperation
    of The Netherlands
By /s/ Inder K. Sud
Director
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Page  4
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date:
June 30, 1997
