Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16750
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
June 23, 1997
Africa Technical Agriculture HI
Country Department 15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CU1RRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =CFAF
US$1.00 =CFAF 470.00 (as of December 29, 1995)
FCFA 1.00 = US$0.0212
WMIGHTS AND MEASUREMENTS
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures used in this report are metric.
1 metric ton (ton)    =    2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)   =    2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)        0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)     =    3.28 feet (ft)
FISCAL YEAR:
The World Bnk - July 1 to June 30
Government of Burkina Faso - January 1 - December 31
Vice President:       Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:     Hasan Tuluy, AFC15
Technical Manager:   Jean-Paul Chausse, AFTA3
Task Team Leader:    Turto Turtiainen, AFTA3



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMRT         Atelier Mensuel de Revue de Technologies (Monthly Technology Review Meeting)
CAMES        Conseil Afticain et Malgache d 'Enseignement Sup erieur (African and Malagasy
Council for Higher Education)
CNRST        Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique et Technologique (National Center
for Scientific and Technological Research)
CRRA         Regional Research Center
CTR          Comite Technique de Recherche (Technical Research Committee)
DVA          Direction de la Vulgarisation Agricole (Directorate of Agricultural Extension)
EPA          Etablissement public a caractere administratif (Public agency)
ESFIMA       Research program for soil, water, fertilization, irrigation and mechanization
IDA          International Development Association
INERA        Institut d 'Etudes et de Recherches Agricoles (Agricultural Research Institute)
IRBET        Institut de Recherche en Biologie et Ecologie Tropicale (Research Institute for
Tropical Biology and Ecology)
MARA         Ministere de l 'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales (Ministry of Agriculture and
Animal Resources)
MESSRS       Ministere des Enseignements Secondaire et Superieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique (Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education and Scientific Research)
NASDP II    Second National Agricultural Services Development Project
NGO          Nongovernmental organization
ONG          Organisation Non Gouvemementale (Non-Governmental Organization)
PAPEM        Point d'Appui de Prevulgarisation et d'Experimentation Multilocale (Mini-Station
for Pre-Extension Experimentation)
PRA          Projet de Recherche Agricole (Agricultural Research Project)
PSRA         Plan Strategique de la Recherche Agricole (National Agricultural Research
Strategy)
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT_
Project Completion Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .................................................  .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY.                                                        ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .1
A. INTRODUCTION .1
B. PROJECT OBJECTVES .1
1. Statement of Objectives                 .1
2. Evaluation of Objectives                .2
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES                     .3
1. Capacity of the national agricultural research system  .3
2. Balancing of the research programs          .4
3. Research-user liaisons                  .5
4. Other implementation records              .6
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                 .7
E. SUSTAINABILITY                           .8
F. BANK PERFORMANCE                           .9
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .10
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .10
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS .12
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .13
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES .15
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .15
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS .17
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .18
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS .18
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .19



TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS ....................... .................. 21
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED  IN  THE PROJECT ......................................................... 21
TABLE 8: PROJECT COSTS AND  FINANCING ..........................................................     21
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ..........................................................                  23
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ............. 26
TABLE  12: BANK  RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .......................................................... 26
TABLE 9: BANK  RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..........................................................                27
PART III. THE BORROWER'S EVALUATION  REPORT .............................................................. 24
Annex 1: Aide-Memoire by the ICR mission
Annex 2: Comments by the Borrower on the ICR



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the first Agricultural Research Project
(Projet de recherche agricole - PRA) in Burkina Faso, for which Credit 1896-BUR in the amount of
SDR 14.1 million equivalent was approved on April 19, 1988 and made effective on December 29,
1988.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1996, that is, two years nine months later than the initial
closing date of March 31, 1994. However, the project funds had been essentially exhausted already nine
months earlier than the credit was closed, and the last extension of nine months only concerned three
specific activities, viz., completion of selected infrastructure, installation of a new, computerized
accounting system and development of experimental plots at a few research stations.
The ICR is based on the observations of an IDA post-evaluation mission which took place from
January 27 to February 3, 1997. The mission team comprised Messrs.Mmes. Turto Turtiainen (Team
Leader), Marie-Helene Collion, Ibrahim Nebie, Shiv Singh (World Bank), and Hannibal Muhtar
(Consultant). Mr. Dirk Prevoo assisted in preparing the tables in the annexes. For the ICR, the staff
used the material in the project files, including the Staff Appraisal Report, the President's Report, the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA), supervision reports, the midterm report, as well as a number of
various studies and documents prepared during the project and for the evaluation mission by the
Agricultural Research Institute (INERA). The information provided by these documents was
supplemented and substantiated by field visits and meetings with research and extension staff and high-
level office holders in the supervising ministry, the Ministry of Secondary and Higher Education and
Scientific Research (MESSRS) and the National Center for Scientific and Technological Research
(CRNST). The report was reviewed by Mr. Derek Byerlee, Research Advisor (AGRAF).
The Government has done its own post-evaluation of the project. The Government's report and
its comments on the IDA report are attached as annexes.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1896-BUR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Government of Burkina Faso prepared, over a period of several years in the 1980s, a project
proposal to obtain a credit from IDA to develop the country's agricultural research. However, prior to the
approval of the Agricultural Research Project (Projet de Recherche Agricole--PRNA), the World Bank
Group played a limited role in Burkina Faso's economic development, and even then, it focused mainly on
sectors other than agriculture. Because the relationship between the Bank and Burkina Faso Government
deteriorated during the 1980s, IDA approved no new credits in 1986 and 1987. Relations improved when a
new Government came to office in late 1987. The preparations of PRNA, starting with project preparation
in 1982 and appraisal in 1986, led to approval of the Credit for the proposed project by the Board on April
19, 1988.
2.    At appraisal, the total project costs were estimated at around US$18.8 million equivalent, of which
US$0.9 million equivalent was expected to be financed by the Government, mainly to cover the costs of
salaries and a part of other operating costs of administration and research. The total cost of the country's
research program was larger than IDA and Government funds together, but the remainder was expected to
be financed by the Government and other donors.
Project objectives
3.    As appraised in 1986, the project was conceived as the first phase of a 15-year assistance program
for the development of Burkina Faso's agricultural research. The objectives of the first phase were to:
(a)   strengthen and consolidate the capacity of national agricultural research, including livestock and
forestry, to plan, execute and evaluate research programs that are in line with the Government's
agricultural policies, responsive to farmers' need, and to alert the Burkinab6 researchers of relevant
research conducted in neighboring countries or international institutes;
(b)   improve the balance and linkages between individual research programs, by emphasizing
multidisciplinary, system-oriented research, as opposed to the commodity-oriented research in the
past; and
(c)   strengthen links between research and extension services.
4.    The project's objectives were in line with the Bank Group's assistance strategy current at the time
of appraisal. Development of agriculture is still a cornerstone of the Bank's strategy in its support of
Burkina Faso. Agricultural research was, and still is, an essential element for developing agriculture and,
through it, the incomes of the majority of the country's population. As the objectives or targets were not



iii
quantified, except for civil works and financial inputs, it is difficult to assess whether their scope was
appropriate. However, given that the project represented the first phase of a longer-term program, that the
objectives and the project components focused on activities that were important for developing the
research system, and that there was substantial improvement in all project-supported activities during the
extended project period, the objectives can be considered to have provided a suitable description of the
direction to be taken. However, in retrospect, the reviewers may observe that the objectives should have
been made susceptible to being monitored effectively.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    As mentioned, the project was planned to be the first phase of a long-term operation. Progress was
made toward all the objectives, and all project components in support of reaching the objectives were
essentially implemented. The institutional objective--that is, strengthening of the agricultural research
capacity in Burkina Faso--was the most important objective; it was achieved as well as could be expected
during the first phase of the project. A major outcome in this respect was the near-completion of an
extensive training program. Closely linked with this objective was replacement of the expatriate
manpower by local, trained managers and researchers. This objective was also well achieved. A proof of
the adequacy of the capacity in general was the preparation of a National Agricultural Research Strategy
largely by the Burkinabe manpower. Approved by the Government in 1995, it covers the planning,
programming and coordination of all agricultural research carried out by different research institutions,
technical ministries, projects, and NGOs in Burkina Faso. Its principal objectives and strategies are (a) to
achieve food self-sufficiency and food security, particularly through increases in agropastoral and forestry
products; (b) to improve the income and welfare of smallholders through intensification and diversification
of agricultural production; and (c) to conserve and restore natural resources through better policies and soil
management practices. Based on this strategy, the agricultural research institutes now have organized 20
research programs, clustered in five groups.
6.     Some progress was also made in developing the channels through which to pass on the findings of
agricultural research and to obtain feedback about the new requirements of the ultimate users of the
research, that is, the (small-scale) farmers. During the follow-on phases of the program, however, more
progress in this area is essential to better convert the research results into practical output increases on
farmers fields and to make permanent the necessary liaison arrangements for that. Similarly, it is
important in the future to balance the priorities between the programs on the basis of the new economic
needs of the farmers and the country, such as securing food security through smallholder development and
providing smallholders with suitable means to increase their cash income.
7.     The main deviations from the appraisal situation--not in terms of quantity and finances, although
they also differed from appraisal estimates--were the construction and rehabilitation of the physical
infrastructure for the research system. The deviations may, however, have been justified. The original
construction program was not well planned and not all planned works had a sufficient priority during the
project. During the early years of the project higher needs and priorities were observed, and they required
much extra planning, design, and administrative work on the side of the Borrower and flexibility on the
side of the Bank. The overall works program that was completed was larger and more expensive than
envisaged at appraisal, partly because of inflation, and partly because of modifications in structures and
changes in priorities regarding the sites and types of buildings needed.
8.     The project achieved its financial objectives satisfactorily. The total costs of the agricultural
research system during the project period exceeded FCAF 10 billion. All the IDA funds reserved for the
project under the Credit Agreement, SDR 14.1 million (equivalent to FCAF 7.7 billion), were used. Of the



iv
rest, the Government contributed about 11 percent of the expenses, USAID about 6 percent, and other
donors (Holland, EU, Canada, etc.) about 14 percent. During the project, there were shortcomings in
annual audits, but they were corrected before the end of the project.
9.     Several problems, including cumbersome procurement procedures, caused a slow start for the
project and disbursements of its funds. For instance, the IDA disbursements for civil works were only
FCAF 194 million during the first three years--less than 10 percent of the final amount of FCAF 2.2
billion. In addition, the disbursement activity had its own problems. The disbursement process has been
largely streamlined both locally and within IDA, but the period between the release of funds from IDA and
its arrival in the Special Account at a local bank is still too long.
10.   The research structure in Burkina Faso was operational at the start of the project, but during the
project period the output of the system accelerated substantially. Because Burkina Faso has five major
agro-ecological zones based on climate, soil and socioeconomic factors, the extent of research needed to
obtain results at the level of the individual farmer is inevitably larger than in some more homogeneous
countries. Of the various crops and products researched and developed, the results in work on upland rice
were remarkable; as a result of the development and introduction of improved varieties, upland rice yields
for farners adopting the recommended packages have significantly increased during the last five years
from about 800 kg/ha to about 2 000 kg/ha. Similar results were obtained on maize (productivity increase
from 1.0 ton/ha to 2.0 ton/ha) and even better ones on cowpeas, where the improved varieties have
produced yields four times those for the local varieties. Less dramatic, in some cases even marginal,
results were recorded on sorghum and millet, groundnut, and lowland rice, but even there the drought- and
disease-tolerant varieties studied at the research stations and introduced by them to farmers made
production more consistent. The work on vegetables, tree crops, soil-water management, and farming
systems research is expected to bring about measurable improvements in the near future.
11.   The performance of the Bank Group in the different phases of the project was satisfactory.
Improvements in the project implementation could have been attained if the Bank's operating budgets
would have allowed more specialist staff (procurement, accounting and audit, agronomyl and research
infrastructure specialists) to participate in the missions, especially in the early phase of the project that took
off very slowly. The Borrower performance has also been satisfactory, except for the early part of the
project when meeting the conditions of effectiveness and disbursement and the start of project
implementation were slow. There were also other occasions when faster action was expected by the Bank
missions, but some of the recommendations of the missions related to actions that were not among the
original project objectives (for instance, the legal basis of implementing institutions and conditions of
service for researchers). The Government has been in compliance with all the covenants of the Credit
Agreement.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12.   As already mentioned, the project has been a successful first phase in a longer-term program
aiming at strengthening the agricultural research capacity in Burkina Faso. It has also helped the
agricultural research programs progress, to some extent, toward balancing the research programs both
regionally and in relation to each other, and particularly in favor of programs that are important for the
largest interest group, that is, smallholder farmers. The project benefited from several factors that
facilitated its implementation, albeit in a longer period than originally planned. They included, among
others, the commitment of the responsible Minister and his staff to make the project succeed, the flexibility
1 / However, the first Task Managers were Agriculturists



v
shown by the implementing agencies to meet the changing requirements, and the Bank's responsiveness to
the requested changes. Among the factors that hindered the speed of project implementation or affected
otherwise negatively the achievement of the objectives as laid down at appraisal were that the roles of the
different agencies involved were not adequately distinguished, that there were disincentives arising from
the existing reward/promotion system, and that the conditions of service for the researchers were
unsatisfactory. None of these were mentioned as constraints in the project documents before the midterm
review of the project.
13.   During the project the future direction of agricultural research in Burkina Faso has been laid out.
The follow-on project is expected to continue where the first phase ended, completing the construction and
rehabilitation program and taking care of the still remaining shortcomings and new tasks that have
appeared since the appraisal of the previous project. It is envisaged in the second phase project that
agricultural research in Burkina Faso's public sector will focus on programs with the highest national
priorities and be implemented by more efficient institutions, INERA and IRSAT, with active participation
by the private sector.
14.   The sustainability of a service institution depends on its ability to provide its products (services) in
such quantity and of such quality that there are interested parties that are willing to provide financing to
facilitate continued operations of the institution. In this respect the sustainability of project activities is
very promising. The satisfactory implementation of the Agricultural Research Project has provided
INERA with an infrastructure, manpower and experience which are likely to ensure that the interested
parties (Government, financing agencies, bilateral and multilateral donor agencies, and the users of its
services--the extension service, farmer organizations, and farmers) are eager to make sure that agricultural
research in Burkina Faso not only continues but further expands. The World Bank Group has already
processed a follow-on project, the Second National Agricultural Services Development Project, which
provides the commitment of the Govermment and IDA for the next four years. However, independence
from outside resources is not likely to take place even during the next phase of the program. An area
where sustainability is of a particular concern is the infrastructure of INERA. Maintenance of the
infrastructure, now only partially completed, will continue to be a demanding financial burden for the
Government.
15. The major lessons drawn from project implementation experience include the following:
(a)  agroprocessing and post-harvest technology research were not included in the first phase of the
Bank involvement in Burkina Faso. Recent analyses of potential agricultural sector development
show that the opportunities for added value and growth in the agroprocessing sub-sector may be
as important as gains in productivity. Although an inclusion of more than one research
institution in a project would make its implementation more complicated, the Bank should not
invest in production research without investing simultaneously in post-harvest research;
(b)  it is difficult to establish permanent linkages with the users--that is, extension system, farmers
and other interested parties--without formal, permanent arrangements. When the extension
service, agricultural research, and promotion of fanner organizations are under different
ministries or agencies, memorandums of understandings or research-originated efforts to link
with others may be insufficient tools. More permanent committees, meeting regularly, to
approve plans and to coordinate and monitor research activities are needed. Assistance for the
activities that need to be closely linked should probably be financed under the canopy of one
project; and



vi
(c)  appropriate technical input during the preparation and appraisal missions is critical for complex
works to succeed. Such support includes specialists in project operations, accounting and audits,
and, in the case of agricultural research, in agronomy, station management and infrastructure.
For instance, before the designs for such works are made final, the necessary specialists should
be consulted for obtaining an adequate assessment of management of physical facilities and
infrastructure and to realistically evaluate sustainable project needs. The Bank staff or
consultants should evaluate technical and engineering plans before the Bank's no-objections for
their implementation is given.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1896-BUR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1. Realizing that agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, the Government of Burkina Faso has
followed, since the early 1980s, a policy of agricultural development that aims at achieving food security,
improving the incomes of the rural population, and protecting the environment. In 1985 the country
endorsed the goals of intensification and diversification of agricultural production, improved management
of natural resources, and performance of agricultural research. To achieve these goals, the Government
initiated special programs for agricultural extension, research and community-based land management
(Gestion des terroirs). Beginning in 1985, the development strategies for agricultural research were
implemented on the basis of a policy paper titled "Lignes directrices d'organisation et d'administration
strategique de recherches agricoles. " It emphasized agricultural research on farming systems; soil and
water management; and production of traditional cereals, legumes, vegetables, fruits, rice and cotton, as
well as animal husbandry. The IDA-financed Agricultural Research Project (PRNA), that was identified in
1983, appraised in 1986, and approved in 1988 was a tool to assist in developing and implementing the
national policies for agricultural research.
2. In 1991 the Government adopted a Structural Adjustment Program to improve the competitiveness of
the economy and to establish a basis for sustainable development. This program encompassed actions on
fiscal policy, scope of the public sector, reform of the banking sector, reform of tariffs and trade policies,
and liberalization of prices. The development strategies of the program also emphasized increased
productivity based on smallholder production and promotion of smallholders' participation in development
activities, thus further supporting the importance of agricultural research.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1. Statement of Objectives
3.    The long-term plan for developing agricultural research in Burkina Faso in the 1970s and 1980s
aimed at developing a unified national institute and organization dealing with crops, livestock and forestry
production, and responding to the needs of different categories of primary producers in various agro-
economic zones. The organization was to be financially and administratively manageable and staffed by
trained Burkinabe research specialists and a few short-term outside consultants. The Agricultural Research
Project that was designed to help achieve these goals was conceived as the first time-slice of a 15-year
program of assistance. The objectives of the project were to:



2
(a) strengthen and consolidate the capacity of national agricultural research to allow planning,
execution, and evaluation of research programs responsive to farmers' needs and to alert the
Burkinabe researchers of relevant research conducted in neighboring countries or international
institutes;
(b) improve the balance and linkages between individual research programs, by emphasizing
multidisciplinary, farming system-oriented research, as opposed to the commodity-oriented
research of the past; and
(c) strengthen links between research and extension services and other interested parties.
6.     To achieve the objectives the project was to:
(a) recruit additional Burkinabe researchers and technicians and implement a technical assistance
program, and gradually replace the expatriate personnel with local specialists;
(b) carry out plans for the training necessary to increase the number and competence of the
researchers, technicians, and administrative staff;
(c) strengthen the physical infrastructure and its capacity to support improvement of the research
activities; and
(d) improve the financial management system and capacity in the Institute d'Etudes et de Recherches
Agricoles (INERA).
2. Evaluation of Objectives
4.     The agricultural research system was started during the colonial period, and it continued to rely on
foreign expertise during the first two decades of independence. It had relatively limited research programs
and agroclimatic coverage; its main focus was on meeting commercial needs rather than on serving the
large majority of smallholder farmers, many of whom are still at a subsistence level. The linkages with
other than commercial operators were limited, and the official Government structure for smallholder
extension had been neglected. Given this situation, it is difficult to consider even in retrospect any
approach and objectives other than those selected by the planners of the project. It was particularly
important to take a long-term view of the development needs and use the resources available to build up
the national capacity to plan, manage, and carry out agricultural research programs. The particular tools
selected--recruitment and training of national researchers and technicians; use of foreign expertise
selectively for mentoring and for continuing the current programs during the transition period; build-up the
physical infrastructure, including laboratories and other research facilities; expansion of the research
programs toward meeting the needs of the smallholder farmers; and attempt to link the agricultural
research with the already existing extension activities--were valid at the time of project planning and
appraisal and remain valid in retrospect.
5.     The midterm review in 1992 did not change the project objectives. It recommended, however, to
clarify and formalize the organizational arrangements and to delegate responsibility in the sector by
developing and promulgating suitable laws or degrees. Also, the review acknowledged as an important
goal the need to improve the terms and conditions of service for the researchers. If foreseen at the time of



3
project preparation and appraisal, the objectives on organizational aspects and researcher incentives could
have been added in the list of project objectives.
6.    The appraisal team did not report that it had considered any risks that could affect attainent of
project objectives. Careful review of the risks could have made it possible to foresee the potential
administrative and managerial problems arising from multi-agency involvement and to avoid some of the
delays that occurred during project implementation.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.    As discussed later, the main objectives of the Agricultural Research Project were largely achieved.
Substantial progress was made in building the national capacity to plan and implement research programs
as well as in achieving greater balance between the various research programs. The plans for constructing,
rehabilitating, and equipping the head offices of INERA, the Institut de Recherche en Biologie et Ecologie
Tropicale (IRBET), research stations, and laboratories were modified several times, but most requirements
in this respect were completed during the project period. Less progress was made in linking agricultural
research with agricultural extension and the large number of expected users of the research outputs.
1. Capacity of the national agricultural research system
8.    Strengthening human resources. The objective of building up the national human capacity for
agricultural research was largely achieved. INERA's capacity was expanded mainly through systematic
training, either inside the country or outside. At the start of the project, 68 staff members were to get
doctorate, masters or DEA degrees', or engineering diplomas. Of these staff members, 57 have completed
their training and the remaining targeted persons are finishing up their programs. A large part of training
was funded by the IDA Credit; the rest was funded by various other agencies, such as USAID and French
Cooperation, and by the Burkinabe Government. Therefore, whereas INERA and IRBET had only 45
researchers with doctoral, master's, or DEA degrees in 1989, the "new INERA"  had 78 scientists with
these degrees in 1996. During the same time, the reliance on expatriates decreased. From 20 expatriate
scientists in 1991, only six remained in 1996.
9.    Whenever INERA or IRBET lacked special scientists on their staff, they have been able to call on
the University of Ouagadougou and the Rural Development Institute for assistance. This collaboration
made it possible, for instance, to develop an adequate research program in animal production; development
of such a research capacity was one of the conditions for the project to invest in infrastructure development
in Dori (North) station, which was to host the animal production research program.
10.   At the same time, INERA's capacity to provide adequate technical support to scientists has not
improved. The recruitment of 49 new technicians that was planned did not take place; as a result the ratio
between researchers and technicians deteriorated from 0.83 to 0.41 during the project, partly because of a
parallel increase in the number of researchers. To use the trained researchers effectively, there should be at
least one technician for each researcher.
11.   Planning. INERA has demonstrated that it has developed planning capacities. In 1995 the
Government approved a new strategy paper ("Plan strategique de recherches agricoles") to guide
agricultural research. The previous plan had been achieved with considerable technical assistance, but in
1/ INERA and part of IRBET were merged in 1996.



4
preparing its 1995 plan INERA relied mostly on its own resources. This plan is much more comprehensive
than the previous one, which served as the basis for the early IDA investments. It covers all the domains
necessary to support agricultural development, including forestry, agro-processing, and post-harvest
research; it also has a well-designed program on natural resource management, a difficult research area.
The planning team first conducted an external review of research programs, in which scientists from
international research centers and developed countries participated. The planning team based their work
on regional surveys, in which local development agents and representatives of organized producers
participated.
12.   One of deficiencies of the planning process, however, has been a lack of priority-setting among
programs at the macro-level. The program content and resource allocation proposed by each research
program have been accepted without much change and without making the necessary reallocation of
resources among programs to respond to changing economic and socio-economic conditions. Even with
IDA's financial support, the Government would not be able to finance all the planned research programs.
The strategic plan did not have the flexibility necessary to immediately reallocate resources in response to
the devaluation of CFAF in 1994 and the opportunities to earn additional income for farmers.
13.   Annualprogramming and budgeting. The annual work programs and budgets have been prepared
as required, but in most cases there was no systematic approach that would have permitted users to
participate in the process. However, some research teams--in particular, the farning systems research and
the animal production teams--are encouraging producers to participate in the programming process at the
grass-roots level. When the formal framework for consulting the users of research, such as the Regional
Technical Committees (CTR), did not function well, informal processes initiated by some research teams
have shown success. These well-motivated and action-oriented research teams have been able to establish
an excellent framework for collaborative work with producer organizations (See paras 17 to 20 on linkages
with research users).
14.   Scientific support by INERA management. Scientific managerial support for programming,
monitoring and evaluation has been limited. Three divisions--Programs, Documentation and Training, and
Studies and Planning have shared responsibility for the support, and coordination among these divisions
has been inadequate. In addition, there has been no formalized programming, monitoring and evaluation
procedures. Also, the delegation of authority between the Program Division, the unit most likely to
provide scientific backup to the programs, and the program leaders has been unclear. The program leaders,
who are appointed by ministerial decree, may have felt hierarchically superior, because the head of the
Program division is nominated by the Director General of CNRST. These organizational problems were
probably a result of the fact that INERA was built around pre-existing programs and no organizational
study was carried out to ensure the efficiency of the new structure.
2. Balancing of the Research Programs
15    Research organization for development. At the end of the project period, INERA and IRBET had
established eight research programs, which were an important achievement of the research system.
However, not only were there questions about the lack of appropriate weights for determining their scope
(para 12) , but also there was a need for regional balancing. In order to bring research closer to the users,
the project was to build regional research centers in the agro-ecological zones where there had previously
been insufficient agricultural research (North, East, North-west) and to locate there national programs that
respond to the specific needs of the region. For example, the animal production program was to be located
in Dori (North). This approach was soon abandoned, primarily because senior researchers were reluctant



5
to leave their urban place of posting but also because it may not have been the best way to bring research
closer to the clients. To improve the balance, regional multidisciplinary teams were established. They
allowed senior researchers to participate in the regional programs and the regional researchers to
participate in different national research programs. In practice, most regional researchers belonged to two
cross-regional programs, farming systems research and ESFIMA (the research program for soil, water,
fertilization, irrigation and mechanization). These multidisciplinary teams were constituted rather
recently, the first one in Fada N' Gourma (East) in 1993.
16.   At the end of the project, research regionalization was far from complete. Research efforts are still
concentrated in Farako-Ba and above all in Kamboinse, where more than half of the researchers are
located. (This concentration is partly justifiable because Kamboinse is also a training center.) Moreover,
the role of these regional research teams vis-a-vis the national commodity programs remained ill defined
until the end of the project. Other questions also call for answers: It is not clear whether the regional
researchers belonging to these teams are only "super-technicians" testing the technologies proposed by the
senior researchers linked with the national commodity programs in different agro-ecological conditions, or
whether they really are farming systems research teams, responding to requests from farmers, NGOs and
extension services with adaptive experiments. In the latter case, what should be their relationship with the
national commodity programs?
3. Researcher-User Linkages
17.   Oversight of planning. At appraisal, INERA had envisaged two committees of consultation with
its partners: Comite Technique de Recherche (CTR) and Program Commissions. The CTRs were intended
to provide a framework for research to present its results and discuss its future programs with its
development partners at the regional level, thus ensuring the relevance of research for its users (extension
service and farmers). These meetings took place only during the first two years. However, two additional
technical coordination committees were organized at the national level on specific themes, soil fertility
and irrigated cultivation. The regional committees of consultation were revived in 1994, when INERA
used them as a forum to pre.ent its regional research programs as part of elaborating the strategic plan.
18.   In the early phase of the project CTRs may have been premature as a framework for exchanging
views with regional development partners because INERA did not have operational regional teams at that
time. INERA only began to put regional research teams in place in 1992, first in Fada N'Gourma and later
in other regions. Until then, agricultural research was planned at the national level, mostly as commodity
programs.
19.    The Monthly Technology Review Meetings. Among all the measures taken to intensify the
relations between research and extension, the Atelier mensuel de revue de technologies (AMRTs) may
have been the most important. They were organized by the Department of Extension (DVA) in
collaboration with the Regional Research Centers (CRRA) to provide more regular contact between the
users and researchers than the CTRs. With the help of CRRA researchers and DVA specialists, these
meetings trained the extension agents and their supervisors and allowed an upward flow of information to
researchers about the farmers' needs. The number of meeting places increased from one in 1988 to four in
1996.
20.    Other. During the project period several other arrangements and agreements were made to engage
the users in research work and to enable them to benefit from its results. These arrangements included
collaboration with other research networks, research carried out to support selected development projects
in Burkina Faso and adaptive research with two or three farner organizations to provide direct benefits for



6
their members. The Agricultural Research and Training Center in Kamboinse and the project-financed
laboratories were used as practical training places for the students of the University of Ouagadougou,
NGOs, and visitors from other countries in Africa.
4. Other Implementation Records
21.   Strategies andplans. In 1995 the Government approved a new strategy paper ("Plan Strategique
de Recherches Agricoles "-- PSRA) to guide agricultural research. The new strategy covers the planning,
programming, and coordination of all agricultural research carried out by different research institutions,
technical ministries, projects, and NGOs in Burkina Faso. Its principal objectives and strategies are (a) to
achieve food self-sufficiency and food security, particularly through increases in agro-pastoral and forestry
products; (b) to improve the income and welfare of smallholders through intensification and diversification
of agricultural production; and (c) to conserve and restore natural resources through better policies and soil
management practices. In addition, there are specific objectives for the environment aimed at controlling
the pressure on natural resources, protecting biodiversity, and working toward reaching sustainability in the
use of renewable resources. Based on this strategy, the agricultural research institutes now have organized
20 research programs, clustered in five groups.
22.   Physicalfacilities. The project helped finance construction of the head office of INERA,
rehabilitation of the head office of IRBET, and construction of buildings for seven research stations
(Kamboinse, Farako Ba, Saria, Niangoloko--all previously existing--and Katchari, Di, and Kouare on new
sites). In 1992 it was decided to add to the Di research station another administrative site in the city of
Tougan (offices and houses) to improve on-farm researchers' access to various locations. The project also
funded the purchase of agricultural and laboratory equipment and the rehabilitation of various research
infrastructures. Because of start-up problems in implementing the project, the civil works started 15
months behind schedule. The IRBET buildings were rehabilitated as late as in 1995.
23.    The original construction program was not very well planned, and some of the planned works were
not carried out during the project. However, the overall works program completed was larger and more
expensive than envisaged at appraisal, partly because of inflation and partly because of modifications in
structures and changes in priorities regarding the sites and types of buildings needed. The deviations from
the original program required to meet the unforeseen needs necessitated much extra planning, design, and
administrative work on the side of the Borrower and flexibility on the side of the Bank.
24.    Some of the expected works are still to be completed. Most new offices and other station
buildings have been constructed, but auxiliary research facilities remain to be constructed, rehabilitated, or
improved. The topographic and soil studies and development plans are ready for seven stations, but the
actual works are still to be carried out. During project implementation the civil works suffered from a lack
of planning and supervisory capacity in the implementing agencies and from a lack of experience on the
part of the architectural companies used for conceptualizing and designing research infrastructure. IDA
provided little technical support or supervision for the physical side of the project before 1994 when the
Bank requested that INERA recruit a Research Infrastructures Specialist as a consultant on a retainer basis.
25.   Financial management systems. To help INERA handle its increased responsibilities, the project
was to use consultants to strengthen the budgeting, accounting, and financial information systems. In the
beginning, there were conflicts between the national and foreign firms attempting to collaborate on this
task, and so the systems were eventually implemented much later than originally planned. Gradually, it
became evident that the software programs that had been installed, while usable, were cumbersome and
needed to be modernized. Despite some delays, this modernization, including the testing, was carried out



7
during the project, so that the new software for accounting and management information systems was
ready for use at the beginning of 1997.
26.   Accounts and audits. INERA's accounts have been kept as required in the Credit Agreement, but
the auditors have had reservations in annual audits of INERA, and IDA has expressed its concern about the
quality of accounting. The auditors have noted a lack of manuals, inadequate maintenance of inventory
records and inappropriate depreciation method, poor management at one of the research stations in 1993,
and shortage of accounting personnel, mixing of funds of different financing sources (as advances when
waiting for funds from other sources to arrive), and delay in implementing the new accounting plan. These
shortcomings have been gradually corrected and the audit of the 1995 accounts was unqualified.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
27.   Implementation of the project was facilitated, albeit in a longer period than originally planned,
because of several favorable factors: (a) the commitment of the responsible Minister and his staff to make
the project succeed; (b) the good education level of the management and research staff, which enabled
them to develop the skills to manage development process and research programs during the project
period; (c) flexibility shown by the implementing agencies to meet the changing requirements and the
Bank's responsiveness to the requested changes; (d) relatively frequent supervision missions that provided
extensive advice on most problem areas, and (e) the gradual development of interest among the farmers to
try new methods and research results.
28.   A number of other factors slowed down project implementation or otherwise limited the
achievement of objectives as laid down at appraisal: (a) the roles of different agencies involved were
inadequately distinguished; (b) the existing reward/promotion system provided disincentives; and (c) the
other conditions of service for the researchers were unsatisfactory. These aspects, as explained further in
the following, were not specifically reviewed or planned before the project started.
29.   Legal context of the involved organizations. No specific objectives were stated for this area at
appraisal, particularly with respect to the relationship between the Centre National de la Recherche
Scientifique et Technologique (CNRST) and its specialized institutes. In fact, CNRST was not mentioned
in the Credit Agreement because it was expected to disappear soon after negotiations, but that did not
happen. In 1992, at the time of midterm review, the lack of clarity in the institutional arrangements
(CRNST) and the research institutes was diagnosed as a problem. The midterm review recommended (a)
that the legal texts be reviewed and revised to ensure consistency in the decision making and management
of the institute and (b) that maximum autonomy be given to the institutes, especially for appointment of
personnel and for financial management, and that the institutes be made accountable for the results.
30.   A new decree for CNRST was adopted in December 1996, just before the Credit was closed.
CNRST is now an Etablissement public a caractere administratif (EPA) specialise while waiting the
adoption of a new statute making it an Etablissement public a caractere scientifique et technique (EPST).
The new statute is better than the previous one in that that it recognizes the special nature of a research
institute, especially as to the personnel management and the need for specialized scientific governing
bodies. The text leaves the door open for maximum autonomy for the institutes, but this will need to be
clarified in the decrees organizing the institutes. These decrees are still being discussed.
31.   Conditions of service for researchers. The scientific promotion system, the Conseil Africain et
Malgache d'Enseignement Superieur (CAMES), to which Burkina Faso belongs, has been a source of



8
problems, because classification and promotion of researchers are subject to CAMES decisions. On the
one hand a promotion and reward system that is completely external guarantees objectivity. On the other
hand, because the CAMES system has been designed for the universities, it emphasizes the importance of
publications and degrees as criteria for promotion over any other factors. Because holding a doctorate is a
prerequisite to entering the CAMES system, the main concern for young researchers is to prepare their
thesis. For the older researchers to progress within the system, numerous scientific publications are a must.
Work with extension services or farmers is not rewarded in the system at all. Thus it has been difficult to
promote a development-oriented research, to make researchers move to the field, and to make them
interested in training of extension agents and farmers.
32.   Because the potential problems concerning the researchers' promotion and reward system were not
spotted at appraisal, no specific objectives were stated in this respect. The midterm review identified the
constraints arising from the CAMES system and recommended that it be revised. The final results of the
Government's efforts, initiated in 1996, to modify the criteria used by CAMES for placing researchers in
personnel categories and promoting and rewarding their efforts are yet to be seen. In the meantime, the
researchers are evaluated under the old and inadequate system.
33.   Procurement and disbursements. Procurement has been a major problem area throughout
implementation of the project. The main reasons are: (a) the inexperience of the staff at INERA with
World Bank procedures; (b) the complexities relating to the specification of the civil works and goods (all
research stations and laboratory equipment needed to be prepared without a benefit of previous examples);
and (c) the long and cumbersome local procurement procedures. The staff gradually obtained adequate
training and experience, but those who participate in the process outside INERA (Ministry of Economy and
Finance and the CRNST committee dealing with procurement) still need training in Bank procedures.
Because the Government limits for approval at each level of the process are quite low, there is little chance
of delegating procurement decisions downwards. In addition, the CRNST committee dealing with
procurement, while being the last in the chain, can reject an award that has been reviewed at INERA,
Ministry of Economy and Finance, and IDA, sometimes making the work of several months or even a year
go wasted.
34.   Procurement problems have caused numerous delays in contracts and purchases, and they were a
major reason why disbursements got such a slow start. For instance, the IDA disbursements for civil
works were only FCAF 194 million during the first three years, that is, less than 10 percent of the final
amount of FCAF 2.2 billion. In addition, the disbursement activity has had its own problems. The
process has been largely streamlined both locally and within IDA, but it still takes too long for the funds
released from IDA to arrive in the Special Account. This problem needs to be resolved before the follow-
up project starts.
E. SUSTAINABILITY
35.   The sustainability of a service institution depends on its ability to provide its products (services) in
such quantity and of such quality that there are interested parties who are willing to provide financing to
facilitate continued operations of the institution. The satisfactory implementation of the Agricultural
Research Project has provided INERA with an infrastructure, manpower, and experience that are likely to
ensure that concerned parties (Government, financing agencies, bilateral and multilateral donor agencies,
and the users of its services--the extension service, farmer organizations, and farmers) are eager to make
sure that agricultural research in Burkina Faso not only continues, but further expands. In fact, the
agricultural research system in Burkina Faso has already succeeded in developing a reputation as among



9
the best in Africa. In the context of the appraisal and negotiation of a follow-on project, the Second
National Agricultural Services Development Project, the Government and IDA have already committed
their support for the next four-year phase in the development of agricultural research and the project
contains elements that will increase the purchase of agricultural research services by the private sector.
However, the dependence on the various other interested parties can be assumed to continue well beyond
the next project, and the Government needs to monitor that agricultural research will not expand more than
the funds available for this and other similar public services allow.
36.   Sustainability is of particular concern in the infrastructure of INERA. Because of poor quality of
the work (see Borrower's performance), maintaining the infrastructure will continue to be a financial
burden. It is doubtful that the infrastructure is sustainable under present budgets because the various
buildings and civil works will require far more than the funds presently allocated for maintenance.
Another concern is the scope of the strategic plan for agricultural research, which contains no priorities at
the macro level and, if implemented fully, would require a substantial increase in the number of
researchers (73 over the existing 109 researchers) and support staff (110 technicians more than at the
present). Funds for such expansion are unlikely to be available, and the decision makers need to decide on
the priorities of research to avoid spreading the resources too thin.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
37.   From identification to appraisal. The project took a long time to develop from identification to
appraisal. It was identified by the Bank Group already in 1983, based on earlier requests by the
Government. Because the Bank Group was relatively inactive during the early and mid- 1980s, it provided
only limited support to project identification and preparation (two one-man missions). However, the Bank
Group financed the services of a specialist from the International Service for National Agricultural
Research (ISNAR), who, with FAO and Government teams, was instrumental in designing the project and
preparing the project documents. Considering the situation of the agricultural research and political
changes taking place in the country at that time, the preparation was well done.
38.   From appraisal to effectiveness. The appraisal team consisted of seven persons, representing the
skills needed for appraising the various components and functions of the project. Appraisal took place in
December 1986 and negotiations in July 1987. It took another 18 months to approve the project and make
the credit effective. The main reason for the delay was disagreements between the Bank and borrower
about the economic policies, which in Burkina Faso during that period were based on very strongly
centralized government and non-market-oriented economic management. The appraisal process included
substantial use of specialists and consultants, and the overall result of appraisal was satisfactory. However,
some aspects, such as the implications of the weakly defined organizational responsibilities (para 29) and
the need to improve the inadequately planned program for infrastructure development (para 23), were
overlooked.
39.   Supervision. Supervision was regular and the missions took adequate time. They provided aide-
memoires with detailed advice for project implementation. However, probably because of budgetary
constraints, the missions had too few specialized members; during the first three years the mission
consisted of only one or two members and even later missions lacked important skills. For instance,
although there were accounting problems for several years, there was no specialist in accounts and audits
in the supervision missions. Only in the two years before the end of the project was an infrastructure and
research equipment specialist brought in to assist in the supervision. To avoid the flaws that eventually
required costly repairs, more attention should have been given at the start of the project to the
characteristics of the proposed buildings and their envisaged use. Apparently also the Bank's no-objections



10
for designs and procurement requests were slow in coming. In some station rehabilitations, the Bank gave
its no-objection to civil works without ensuring that technical plans had been adequately prepared. There
also was a gap of a couple of years when there was not an agronomist in the IDA missions. The last
mission, which coincided with a pre-evaluation mission for a follow-on project, included an agronomist,
and he made numerous recommendations for improvement of the technologies under development.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
40.   Meeting the conditions of effectiveness took the Government seven months, but compliance with
the conditions of disbursement took substantially longer. In addition, because the staff of the
implementing agencies were unfamiliar with the Bank Group procedures, particularly those regarding
procurement and disbursement, a couple of years passed before the project began to be effectively
implemented. Subsequently, most of the project activities were completed relatively normally, and the
project itself was completed in two more years than originally projected. The project was administered
according to the plans; the main problem was several qualified audits (which were cleared up before the
end of the project).
41.   The main part of the project was implemented by INERA, and its staff--as well as staff at the other
agencies involved (MESSRS, CRNST, and IRBET)--deserve credit for the hard work, commitment, and
flexibility they showed during project implementation. However, the achievements listed in this report
were not easy to obtain, and, consequently, many activities were delayed. For instance, preparation of the
strategy for agricultural research took a long time and the appraisal of the project was delayed. Also,
whereas the implementing agencies were generally responsive to the recommendations of the supervision
missions, CNRST was quite slow to respond to some of the recommendations of the 1992 joint midterm
review. For instance, CNRST began to actively address the need to change the legal statutes and the
CAMES promotion system only in 1995. The new CNRST decree was adopted in December 1996, and
the decrees for the institutes have been signed. Modification of the CAMES promotion system is still
under discussion.
42.   CNRST and INERA have also been unable to make the necessary decisions on reallocation of
resources among different programs and on the overall scope of the agricultural research system (INERA
and IRSAT) for the future, both in terms of personnel and in terms of infrastructure.
43.   Supervision of the execution of the construction was mainly done by the understaffed "Bureau
d'appui Technique" of INERA, which was not sufficiently qualified for research infrastructure design.
This problem led to inadequate supervision and control and may have played a role in the poor quality of
the construction and a marked increase in the final building costs.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
44.   The project was planned to be the first phase of a longer-term (15 years) program of building up
and strengthening the agricultural research system that had been started during the colonial era. In
summary, the project can be considered to have been satisfactorily implemented. The main objective of
strengthening of the national capacity for agricultural research has been largely achieved. Training of the
researchers and key management staff in the national research system has been successful. INERA now
has a solid scientific capacity, although the staff and research programs still require some balancing among
themselves. The research capacity is supported by new or partially rehabilitated infrastructure and other



11
improved facilities, including laboratories. Most of the projected construction has been executed, although
some facilities, such as experimentation fields for researchers, have not been completed.
45.   Because of the potentially long-term effect on agricultural development in the country, the
principal outcome of the project may be the proven planning capacity of CRNST and INERA for preparing
the national strategy for agricultural research. Implementation of the plan will require clear prioritization,
if the best use is to be made of the limited resources. Several research teams have demonstrated their
mastery of participative research methods by collaborating with producers. The system of researcher
promotion and rewarding is being modified. Good collaboration has also been established with the
University of Ouagadougou and the Institute of Rural Development which have complemented the skills
available at INERA. In addition, animal resource research, nearly non-existent in the past, has become a
solid program.
46.   The project has had less success in making permanent consultative arrangements with other
interested parties at the national and regional levels, in administering and managing the research stations,
programming the budgeting process, monitoring and evaluating the research programs and evaluating
personnel. These problems will be dealt with during the follow-on project.
47. Research outputs and outcomes. The basic research structure in Burkina Faso was operational at the
start of the project, but during the project period the output of the system accelerated substantially. As
Burkina Faso has five major agro-ecological zones based on climate, soil and socioeconomic factors, the
extent of research needed to obtain results at the level of the individual farmer is inevitably larger than in
some more homogeneous country.
48. Of the various crops and products researched and developed, the work on upland rice was remarkable;
because of the introduction of improved varieties, upland rice yields for farmers who have adopted the
recommended packages have significantly increased during the last five years, from about 800 kg/ha to
about 2,000 kg/ha. Similar results were obtained on maize (productivity increased from 1.0 ton/ha to 2.0
ton/ha), and even better on cowpeas, where the imported varieties have produced yields four times higher
than those of the local varieties. Less dramatic and in some cases even marginal, results were recorded on
sorghum and millet, groundnuts, and lowland rice, but even there the drought- and disease-tolerant
varieties studied at the research stations and introduced by them to farmers have made production more
consistent. The research on vegetables, tree crops, soil-water management, and farming systems are
expected to bring about measurable improvements in the near future.
49.   As already indicated, regional variations in the research and its use are substantial. Research is
only one factor among many that determine the development of agriculture, but research appears to have
had an important impact in all regions of the country. The Western Region, where the rainfall ranges from
900 to 1,200 mm and is distributed over a 6-month period, has the best productive potential. Rice, maize,
and cotton are the predominant crops cultivated in this region. Good progress has been made in the
development of upland rice, maize and cotton varieties. The improved upland rice varieties occupy about
60 percent of the cultivated rice area, whereas the new varieties of maize and cotton are cultivated in about
90 percent of the area under these crops. The Northwest Region receives from 600 to 800 mm rainfall. In
this region, small-scale farming with a mixture of sorghum, millet and cowpea crops and with small
ruminants is predominant. It has been difficult to increase productivity under this farming system, but
where irrigation is available, rice and vegetables are cultivated as cash crops. The Central Plateau, which
occupies a large area and has higher population density, receives 600 to 900 mm rainfall. This is a major
region for cultivation of sorghum, millet, groundnut, sesame and cowpeas. Significant increases in cowpea
yields have been achieved in this region. The Eastern Region is the least developed and least populous.



12
Rainfall ranges from 600 to 900 mm per annum. Sorghum, millet, groundnuts, cowpeas and cotton are
cultivated there. The farmers also have large herds of cattle. In this region, there has been no significant
change either in the cropping systems or in overall productivity. The Sahel Region in the north receives
less than 500 mm rainfall. Livestock is the main economic activity. The staple food crops grown are
millet and cowpeas. A local cowpea variety, the Gorom Gorom Local, which has high resistance to
drought and Striga, has been introduced on a large scale in this region, resulting in a significant increase in
production of cowpeas for human consumption and of fodder for cattle.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
50.   As already mentioned, the project was planned to be the first phase of a 15-year development
program. A four-year follow-up phase is planned to take place under IDA and Government financing. The
new project, the Second National Services Development Project (NASDP I1), has already been appraised
and negotiated. It will pay particular attention to further strengthening the linkages among agricultural
research, extension, and fanner organizations by merging the follow-on operations planned for the
Agricultural Research Project and Agricultural Services Project and by creating formal coordination bodies
at different levels. The operational goals of the follow-on project are based on the strategic and action
plans prepared by INERA and approved by the Government.
51.   The research component of NASDP II will integrate forestry research with other agricultural
research programs under the new INERA. Two other research programs, agricultural machinery and
agroprocessing will be promoted under a newly created institute, IRSAT. The coordination problems
between INERA and IRBET that were observed during the first phase will be avoided by having common
governing bodies and by organizing separate administration funds for each of the project components. The
follow-on project will also seek to reallocate the staff and resources between different research programs
that has become necessary because of changing economic conditions and the fact that some essential
programs (such as horticulture) have long been understaffed. With the new statutes, INERA will have
suitable autonomy and accountability; for instance, it will be able to establish a unit for scientific direction
that should be able to provide the necessary scientific backup to programs and enforce procedures for
programming, monitoring, and evaluation. Further, to resolve the problem of the dearth of technicians,
INERA, with the help of the IDA credit, will recruit some 40 technicians. Their salaries will progressively
be taken over by CNRST budget so that by the end of the second phase they will all be part of CNRST
staff. Similarly, NASDP II will address other problems observed during the first phase of the program,
such as researchers' condition of service, prioritization of research programs, supervision of the
construction and rehabilitation works, and slow procurement.
52.   Research management. In the process of its review, the Project Completion Mission studied, with
the Burkinabe counterparts, the current research opportunities and needs. The recommendation was that
agricultural research under the follow-on project should continue to focus on soil-water management, soil
fertility, nutrient recycling, improvement in organic matter, water catchment studies, improved cropping
systems/farming systems methods, and maintenance of bio-diversity including medicinal plants. The
recommendations by the IDA team for different activities were as follows:
(a) rice: research should focus on developing lowland valley-bottom rice; IPM; regional collaboration;
and on providing hands-on training in rice production for rice research staff, technicians, and
farmers; and on strengthening the rice-breeding program;



13
(b) cereals (maize, sorghum, millet): research on cereals should continue to focus on varieties with
resistance to Striga, drought, and diseases. In collaboration with ICRISAT, INERA should explore
the possibility of introducing hybrid sorghum in the preferred moisture regime regions;
(c) legumes (groundnuts, cowpeas, sesame, and Bambarra groundnut): the legume program should be
decentralized to form part of the cereal cropping systems in the different agro-ecologies.
(d) vegetables: the vegetable research program should be strengthened;
(e) cotton: the research should focus on IPM and soil management problems in cotton-based cropping
systems;
(f) seed: the unavailability of improved seed is a major constraint in increasing the food production; a
seed sector development program should be initiated; also procedures for varietal release,
nomenclature, pedigree, and identification of variety should be standardized;
(g) post-harvest technologies: future research programs should focus increasingly on reducing post-
harvest losses in rice, cereals, legumes, and vegetables; and
(h) forestry: agro-forestry should include research on forest by-products.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
53.   Importance of research on agroprocessing. Agroprocessing and post-harvest technology research
were not included in the first phase of the Bank involvement. Recent analyses of potential agricultural
sector development show that the opportunities for added value and growth in the agroprocessing sub-
sector may be as important as gains in productivity. Although addition of agro-processing component
would complicate projects if more than one research institution is involved, the Bank should not invest in
production research without investing simultaneously in post-harvest research.
54.    Critical linkages. It is difficult to establish regular linkages with the users--that is, extension
system, farmers and other interested parties--without formal, permanent arrangements. When the
extension service, agricultural research, and promotion of farmer organizations are under different
ministries or agencies, memorandums of understandings or research-originated efforts to have liaisons with
others may be inadequate tools. More permanent committees, meeting regularly, to approve plans, and to
coordinate and monitor the research activities are needed. Assistance for the activities that need to be
closely linked should probably be financed under the canopy of a single project.
55.   Decentralization of R&D. A country with several agro-ecological zones requires substantial
decentralization of research and development work. Also, participation by farmers, local governments and
community-based organizations is possible only if research programs are not only carried out in the field
but also managed there. However, research cannot be decentralized on a meaningful scale without
adequate incentives for senior staff to transfer to the field.
56.    The Bank's technical supportfor infrastructure development. Appropriate technical input during
the preparation and appraisal missions is critical for complex works to succeed. In the future, before the
designs for such works are made final, the necessary specialists should be consulted for obtaining an
adequate assessment of the quality of the works, management of physical facilities and infrastructure, and
realistic evaluation of sustainable project needs. The Bank should evaluate technical and engineering plans



14
before giving its no-objections for their implementation. Where Bank staff cannot do such an evaluation
(because of lack of time or unavailability of engineering specialists among the Bank staff), funds should be
reserved in annual task budgets to recruit qualified consultants to evaluate and approve the technical
content of the civil works.
57.    Other implementation support. Particularly with the first project in a subsector such as agricultural
research, the Bank should be prepared to provide adequate funds for project-launching seminars and for
specialist services through supervision missions to accelerate the start of the project and get it onto the
right track.
58.    Station management and development. Research stations demand a high level of management
skills and careful planning of stations, activities, and staff. Their costs, along with infrastructure and
capital items, constitute a high portion of the total investment of the project. In this project, the managers
were chosen from among the researchers, they were not trained for the job, and they continued to work as
researchers. Projects must take into account the special needs of stations and support services that are
provided to research programs and laboratories. The specialization required for effective station
management should be recognized, and appropriately qualified and trained staff recruited for these tasks.
(Starting in early 1994, with strong support from the Bank, INERA tried to re-emphasize the task of the
station manager and support services.)



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit 1896-BUR)
III. STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A.   Achievement of Objectives
Objectives     Substantial        Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro Policies                                                         /
Sector Policies       /
Financial                              /
Objectives                                     l
Institutional
Development
Physical
Objectives
Poverty                               /
Reduction
Gender Issues                                         /
Other Social                                                           /
Objectives
Environmental                         /
Objectives
Public Sector                          /
Management
Private Sector                                                         I
Development
Other (specify)                                      X
B.    Project Sustainability
Proj ect            Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
Sustainability
: ~/



16
C     Bank Performance
Performance        Highly         Satisfactory      Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                         I
Preparation                             /
Assistance
Appraisal       _
Supervision                            /
D.    Borrower Performance
Performance        Highly         Satisfactory      Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                            v
Implementation  _
Covenant               /
Compliance
Operation (if                           /
applicable)     _ 
E.   Assessment of Outcome
Performance        Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Highly
Satisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
Outcome        |f



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title    Amount (in     Purpose                   Year of   Status
SDR millions)                            Approval
Agricultural Sector      28.0       Support the government's   1992      Closed on
Adjustment Credit                   medium-term sectoral                 Dec. 31,
(Cr. 2381-BUR)                      objective program and                1995
hence promote sustainable
growth in the agricultural
sector
Environmental             16.5      Stop and reverse the      1991       Ongoing
Management (Cr.                     process of natural resources
2229-BUR)                           degradation in order to
secure sustainable
agricultural growth, to
restore biodiversity, and to
manage forests and wildlife
sustainably
Agricultural Services    42.0       Improve the effectiveness   1989     Ongoing
(Cr. 1979-BUR)                      of extension services,
strengthen animal health
services and adaptive
research programs, and
provide functional literacy
training to farmers
Second Bougouriba        16.0       Improve food crop, cotton   1989    Closed on
Agr. Dev. Project (Cr.              and livestock production,            March 31,
1097-BUR)                           and afforestation in                 1989
Bougouriba area
Volta Noire Agr.          6.8       Improve agriculture and the  1983    Closed on
Dev. Project (Cr.                   welfare of pastoralists in           June 30,
1284-BUR)                           Volta Noire area                     1988
Hauts-Bassins Agr.        4.7       Improve agriculture and the  1983    Closed on
Dev. Project (Cr.                   welfare of pastoralists in           June 30,
1285-BUR)                           Hauts Bassins area                   1988
Koudougou Agr. Pilot      7.0       Pilot project to test     1983       Closed on
Dev. Project (Cr.                   acceptance of new                    March 31,
1293-BUR)                           technologies by farmers              1989
Fertilizer Project (Cr.  13.7       Promotion of fertilizer use   1985   Closed on
1550-BUR)                           by improving policies and           June 30,
removing price distortions          1993



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project cycle     1)atc IPlanin dic Actuial
Identification                                     ._ 1983
Preparation                                            1984-1985
Appraisal                                              December 1986
Negotiations                                           July 1987
Board Approval                                         April 19, 1988
Credit Signature                                       May23, 1988
Credit Effectiveness       August 21, 1988             December 29, 1988
Midterm Review             By June 30, 1992            April 1992
Credit Closing             March 31, 1994              December 31, 1996
Table 4: Estimated and ActualAnnual and Cumulative Disbursements
(In US$ '000)
IDA          1988   1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Calendar
Year
Estimated    2,500   3,500   2,700   2,800   2,500    2,100      900      500     400
Annual
Estimated    2,500  6,000    8,700   11,500   14,000   16,100   17,000   17,500   17,900
Cumulative
Actual              1,903     802   3,237    3,143    3,068    2,422    4,230    1,183
Annual
Actual              1,903    2,705    5,942    9,085   12,153   14,575   18,805   19,988
Cumulative
Actual as %     0      32      31       52       65      75       86      107      112
of estimate



19
Table 5 Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation        Estimated                  Actual
Indicators in SAR
Financial Management
Short-term consultant    11 staff weeks             18 man months
Equipment
Short-term consultant     2 man-months               Nil
Seeds Production
Short-term consultant     1 man-month                Nil
Support to Research
Programs
Technical Assistance:                                Technical consultants 5 years
Research Management       3 man years
Specialist                                    Chief BAT: 6 years
Engineer                  30 man-months
Incremental Staff
INERA                                                56
Technicians               49                         58
Observation staff         38
IRBET                                                12
Technicians               2
Support to Research
Programs
Technical Assistance:
Agricultural Economist    3 man-years                4 years
Incremental Staff
Researchers               5                          25 (including " contractuals"
Technicians               12                         27 (including "contractuals"
Research Programs
Water/soil/fertilization, etc
Agriculturalist (TA)      2 man years                4 years
Researchers               4 (1 shared with Forestry)    17
Technicians               9                          10
Livestock
Livestock Production
Research Scientist



20
(TA)                2 man-years                4 years
Cereals
Short-term consultants    22 man-months              Nil
Researchers                2 (1 shared with Rice)
Technicians                6                          1 (1)
Oilseeds
Researchers                2
Technicians                6                          7
Vegetable and Fruit
Researchers                1
Technicians                5                          6
Rice
Short-term consultants     12 man-months
Reseachers                 1 (shared with Cereals)   Nil
Technicians                2                          6
Cotton
Technicians                4                          5
Forestry
Forestry Specialist (TA)   3 man-years                3 years 3 months
Researchers               2 (1 shared with Water/     16
Soil, Fertilization, etc)
Techniciens                4                          4
Training
Information and Training   1                          See Borrower's report, Table X
Officer (local)
Diplomas                   14
MSc                        8
Doctor ("3e cycle")        4
Ph. D.                     3
Doctor ("d'Etat")          3
Research Management        6 man-months (3 for each
director INERA/IRBET)     2 man weeks
Network Building           40 man weeks (20 for each
director INERA/IRBET)     Nil
Division Heads            29 man weeks                16 man weeks
Documentalist              13 man weeks               4 man weeks
Seminars                  30 man weeks               30 man weeks
International Congresses   60 man weeks               Several attendancies
Training by consultants    20 man weeks              20 man weeks
Other                      15 man weeks               15 man weeks
Civil Works
INERA Headquarters        New (535 m2)                1 (672 m2)



21
IRBET Headquarters        Expansion (144 m2)         1 (233 m2)
Staff Housing             29                        31
Guest Houses              4                         3
Other                     17 specified at the appraisal, 117 1/
others unspecified
Vehicles and Equipment
Vehicles                  54
Motorbicycles             168
Tractors plus equipment   5
1/ For more details, see procurement and bidding information in the Borrower's report,
Tableau V.
Table 6 Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key Operating Indicators in  Estimated              Actual
SAR
No key indicators were established at appraisal.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study         Purpose as defined       Status         Impact of Study
at appraisal
No formal studies were specified in the project documents, but INERA and its staff have
432 publications to their credit during the project period. The principal documents
relating to the Plan Strategique de la Recherche Scinetifique 1995 contain the following,
yield in Africa Information Centre:
* Document principal
*  Gestion des ressource naturelles/systeme de production
*  Macro-&conomie et &eonomie desfilieres
*  Mecanisation
*  Productions animales
*  Productions ve'ge'tales: cereales traditionnelles
*  Productions vegetales:coton
*  Productions vegetales: cultures maraicheres, fruitier etplantes a tubercules
*  Productions vegetales: olMagineux annuels et legumineuses ai graines
*  Productions vege'tales: production forestieres
*  Productions vegetales: riz et riziculture
*  Transformation des produits



22
Table 8A: Project Cost
Appraisal Estimates              Actual Expenditure
(US$ million)                  (FCFA million) 1/
Category          Local      Foreign               Local       Foreign
currency    exchange    Total    currency    exchange    Total
Civil Works       2.2        0.8         3.0                              2,164
Vehicles          0.2         1.2        1.4                           )
Equipment         0.2        0.8         1.0                              1,070
Furniture         0.06        0.08       0.14
Technical         0.7        2.3         3.0                               630
Assistance
Training          0.01        1.1        1.1                               491
PPF               0.3         1.2        1.5
Local Salaries/   4.0         1.2        5.2                              3,356
Operating Costs                                   _
Total Baseline    7.7        8.5         16.2
Costs
Physical          0.2         0.2        0.4
Contingencies
Price             1.9        0.3         2.2
Contingencies
Total Project Costs  9.8     9.0         18.8                             7,711
1/ Borrower's estimates; the respective dollar amounts are difficult to establish because of
several devaluation of FCFA.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual Financing
Source                (US$ million)                       (US$ million)
Local      Foreign              Local        Foreign
Currency    Exchange     Total   Currency     Exchange      Total
IDA               8.9              9.0      17.9                           20.0 1/
Government        0.9              0.0       0.9
Taxes
Total             9.8              9.0      18.8
1/ The amount in dollars used for the project is higher than appraisal estimate due to devaluation
of the dollar in relation to SDR.



23
Table 9: Compliance with Legal Covenants
Section      Type   Original        Revised        Status  Comments          Description
Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date          Date
3.01 (a)     M                                     C       No        action  The Borrower shall
required         cause  INERA  and
IRBET to carry out
the project with due
diligence      and
______________   _______________  _______________         efficiency
3.01 (b)     F                                     C       No        action  The Boffower shall
required         make the proceeds of
the credit available to
INERA on a grant
basis
3.01 (c)     CF       Annual                       C       No        action  The Borrower shall
required         make annual recurrent
budget allocations to
INERA and IRBET of
at least CFAF 200
million and CFAF 31
million respectively
3.02         M                                     C       No        action  Procurement      of
required         goods,  works  and
services   to   be
governed by Schedule
of DCA
3.03 (a)     M        11-30-1988                   C       No        action  INERA shall employ
required         locally    recruited
info/training officer,
l___________    ____________                           satisfactory  to  IDA
3.03 (b)(i)    M      01-31-1989                   C       No        action  Submission       of
required         detailed scientific and
laboratory equipment
purchase program for
INERA,   including
cost estimates
3.03 (b) (ii)   M     09-30-1989                   C                         Borrower to furnish to
IDA   a   livestock
production  research
program,   including
investment proposals
3.04         M        10-31-1988                   NC      Personnel   and  Borrower        shall
institutional    implement       the
statutes    are  organizational staffing
inappropriate for anrangements
farmer  oriented  established by INERA
research. Scheme  and IRBET statutes
of  service  for
current staff to be
elaborated



24
3.05 (a)     M        Continuous                  C                         Borrower       shall
maintain  (i)  the
agreed estabhishment
of  research    for
INERA and IRBET
and (ii) INERA's and
IRBET's        key
positions     with
qualified staff
3.05 (b)     M        Continuous                  C        CNRST structure  Borrower       shall
is being changed;  communicate to IDA
draft legal text is  for its prior approval
due 01/1996      all proposed changes
in INERA's and
IRBET's
organizational
structure
3.06         M        05-15 of each               C                         Borrower shall submit
year                                                 to IDA, for its review,
INERA's        and
IRBET's joint draft
research   programs
and   budgets  for
following year
3.07         M        05-31 of each               C                         Annual meeting of aid
year                                                  agencies to review: (i)
result  of  research
programs carried out
by   INERA    and
IRBET; (ii) work
plans,     research
programs, and cost
and financing plans
for following year
3.08         M       06-30-1992                   C        Conducted   04- Borrower        shall
1992             conduct   mid-term
review and furnish
findings       and
recommendations
3.09         M        12-31-1988                  C                         Borrower       shatl
and    05-31                                          furnish to IDA draft
annually                                              detailed first year's
thereafter                                           traning program  for
INERA and IRBET
staff and thereafter
provide a detailed
training program for
the following year
3.10         M        Continuous                  C                         INERA  and IRBET
staff  that   have
received    training
abroad must stay in
their assignments for



25
5    years    upon
completion of training
4.01 (a)     A        Continuous                  S        A new financial Borrower shall cause
management and  INERA  to maintain
accounting      records and accounts
system  is being  adequate  to  reflect
out in place     INERA's operations,
resources      and
expenditures,
including those of
IRBET
4.01 (b) i   A        Annually                    C                         Accounts of INERA
to be audited each
year by independent
auditors
4.01 (b) ii    A      06-30                                                 Audit reports shall be
annually                                              submitted  to  IDA
within 6 months afte.r
the end of each fiscal
year
4.01 (b) iii    A                                 C                         INERA  to  furnish
IDA any information
concerning   records
and accounts that IDA
may      reasonably
request
4.01 (c)     A                                    C                         For SOEs, INERA
shall: (i) maintain
records and accounts
of such expenditures;
(ii) retain all such
records for one year
after completion of
audit for fical year in
which          last
disbursement   was
made; (iii) enable
IDA to examine such
records;  and  (iv)
include such records
in annual audit
Keys
Type: A  = Accounts/Audits; CF = Counterpart Funds; F = Flow  of Funds; M  =
Management Aspects
Status: C = Complied with; NC = Not Complied with; S = Expected to be complied with
Soon



26
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title           Describe lack of compliance
N/A (No operations manual references  N/A
specified)
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Planned         Actual          Actual
Stage of Project Cycle     Stafhveeks      Staffweeks       US$ (000)
Preparation                                    78             44.5
Appraisal                                      99             169.2
Negotiations through Board                     24             45.3
Supervision                                    199            355.4
Completion                    12.5
Total



27
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Stage of Project  Date     No. of      Specialization  Implementation  Development  Types of
Cycle                      persons     Skills        Status          Objective     Problems
Identification    No formal  identication
Preparation    5/1982      1           A
Pre-Appraisal    9/1986    2           A, AE
Appraisal      12/1986     5           A, AE, ARS,
Supervision I__01/i990L, AgS                                         2_P,_F
Supervision 1    01/1990   1           A             2               2             P, F
Supervision 2    07/1990    2          A, AE         2               2             PN F
Supervision 3    03/1991    2          A, AE         2               2             NI
Supervision 4    04/1992   1           A             2               1             NI
Supervision 6    11/1992    2          AgS, PA        1              1             NI
Supervision 7    07/1993   3           AS, PA., AE    2              1             F
Supervision 8    03/1994   3           AgS, PA., AE   2              1             NI
Supervision 9    08/1994    4          ARS,   RDS, S                 S             F
AgS, AgEco
Supervision 10   02/1995   2           ARS, AgS      S               S             NI
Supervision 11   12/1995    4          ARS,   AgS, S                 S             P
IMS, RD
Supervision 12   2/1996    4           ARS,   IMS, S                 5
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ R D S,  A_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _  _
Completion     1/97        5           RDS, ARS, A,
IMS, AgS
Key to specialized staff skills:
A  = Agriculturalist; AE  =  Agricultural Economist; AgEco =  Agricultural
Ecologist; AgS = Agricultural Services/Extension Specialist; ARS = Agricultural
Research Specialist; IMS = Infrastructure Management Specialist; PA = Principal
Agriculturalist; RD = Research Development Specialist; RDS = Rural
Development Specialist; L = Lawyer; AR = Architect
Key to types of problems:
F = Financial; NI = None Identified; P = Procurement
1/ Combined with pre-appraisal of a follow-on project; no supervision report prepared.



28
BURKINA FASO
Ministere des Enseignements                          Ministere Delegue
Secondaire, Superieur                              aupres du Premier Ministere
et de la Recherche Scientifique                        charge des Finances
et du Developpement Economique
Centre National de la Recherche                        Direction Generale
Scientifique et Technologique                         de la Cooperation
(CNRST)                                       (DG.COOP)
Institut de l'Environnement                        Direction de la Cooperation
et de Recherches Agricoles                        Multilaterale
(INERA)
RAPPORT D'EXECUTION DE FIN DE PROJET
Projet Recherches Agricoles
(Credit 1896 Bur du 23 Mai 1988)
27 Janvier 1996



29
PREFACE
RAPPORT D'EXECUTION DE FIN DE PROJET
BURKINA FASO
Ce document est le rapport d'execution de fin du Projet Recherches Agricoles au Burkina Faso
grace au credit 1896 Bur du 23 Mai 1988 pour un montant de quatorze millions cent mille (14 100 000)
DTS.
Le cr6dit est clos le 31 Decembre 1996 au lieu de 31 Mars 1994 prevu initialement dans I'accord
de credit.
Le credit a e  entierement decaisse et le dernier remboursement a ete re,u le 21 Decembre 1996.
Le cofinancement du projet a et assure par l'US-AID et la Cooperation Neerlandaise.



30
IABLES DES MATIERES
INTRODUCTION ....................................................................I
1. LES  OBJECTIFS  DU  PROJET  ...................................................................3
II LES RESULTATS DU PROJET ....................................................................4
2.1. Renforcement institutionnel, des mecanismes de gestion et de coordination
de la recherche ...................................................................4
2.2. Capacite de mener des recherches et des etudes .........................................                                 ...........................4
2.12. Gestion  Scientifique et techniques .........................                             ...........................................6
2.1.3. Systeme de gestion  administrative, financiere et de comptabilite ...............                                     ......................7
2.1.4. Gestion  des ressources physiques: BAT ....................................................................                            9
III. LE DEVELOPPEMENT DES INFRASTRUCTURES ET DES EQUIPEMENTS ....................                                                                      ........................ 10
IV. LA FORMATION ...................................................................                                                                                      10
V. L'ETAT D'EXECUTION ET LES CONTRAINTES MAJEURES RENCONTREES
AU COURS DE LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET ...................................................................                                                          11
5.1. Execution des programmes et gestion  scientifique ...................................................................                               I 
5.2  Gestion  financiere et comptable ...................................................................                                                12
5.3. Gestion  des ressources ...................................................................                                                         13
5.4. Developpement des infrastructures et acquisition  d'equipement ...............................                                  ...................... 13
VI. LA DURABILITE DU PROJET ...................................................................                                                                            15
VII. LES PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE ET DE L'AGENCE
D'EXECUTION DU PROJET ...................................................................                                                                            16
VIII.L'ESTIMATION  DES  RESULTATS  ................................................................... 17
IX. LES PERSPECTIVES DU PROJET ...................................................................                                                                        19
9.1. Organisation  et gestion  du projet ...................................................................                                             19
9.2. Ressources du Projet .................                                                                                                              20
ANNEXES .......23
Tableau I           Les Centres Regionaux de Recherches Agricoles ...........................                                      .................................... 23
Tableau II          Programmes, axes de recherche et Repartition  du personnel scientifique .....................                                       ...................... 23
Tableau III    Evolution  du personnel scientifique et technique ...........................                                       .................................... 24
Tableau IV           Publication de l'INERA  disponibles a la documentation de l'INERA  ..........................                                     ...................... 25
Tableau V            Realisation  des infrastructures ............................................................... 26
Tableau  VI          Acquisition de materiels de bureau ...............................................................                                                   27
Tableau VII    Acquisition  des equipements et materiels roulants ....................................                                       ........................... 27
Tableau VIII   Evaluation  annuelle des depenses du projet PRAI ...............................................................                                           28
Tableau IX           Execution  financiere du PRAI ................................................................ 29
Tableau X            Resultats de la formation  longue duree ............................................................... 30
Tableau XI            Sources des bourses de formation ...............................................................                                                    30
Tableau XII Ressources humaines de l'INERA (Presentes au 31/12/1996 .30



31
SIGLES ET ABRVIATIONS
AMRT                Atelier Mensuel de Revue de Technologies
ATAS                Agent Technique d'Agriculture Specialise
BAT                 Bureau d'Appui Technique
Bureau R/D          Bureau Recherche/Developpement
C.G.                Conseil de Gestion
CRPA                Centre Regional de Promotion Agro-Pastoral
CRRA                Centre Regional de Recherches Agricoles
C.T.                Comite Technique de Recherche
CTAS                Conducteur des Travaux Agricoles Specialises
ESFIMA              Programme de Recherche sur I'Eau, le Sol, la Fertilisation, l'Irrigation et le
Machinisme Agricole
GRN/SP              Gestion des Ressources Naturelles et Systemes de Production
IDA                 Association Internationale pour le D6veloppement
ONG                 Organisation Non Gouvernementale
PRSAP:              Projet de Renforcement des Services d'Appui aux Producteurs
RSP                 Recherches sur les Systemes de Production
PAPEM               Point d'Appui a la Prevulgarisation et d'Experimentation Multilocale
PASA                Programme d'Ajustement Structurel du Secteur Agricole
PDSA                Projet de D6veloppement des Services Agricoles
PRA                 Projet Recherches Agricoles
PRA I               Projet Recherches Agricoles I
PRA II              Projet Recherches Agricoles II
PSRA                Plan Strategique des Recherches Agricoles
SEP                 Service Etude et Planification
SISTC               Service Information Scientifique, Technique et de Communication
SLR/D               Service Liaison Recherche-Developpement
ISNAR:
INERA:              Institut d'Etudes et des Recherches Agricoles (ancien)
INERA:              Institut de l'Environnement et des Recherches Agricoles (nouveau)
IVRAZ:              Institut VoltaYque des Recherches Agronomiques et Zootechniques
(PNRA)              Programme National de Recherches Agricoles



32
TABLE DES MATIERES
1- LES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET:
11- LES RESULTATS DU PROJET
2.1- Renforcement institutionnel, des mecanismes de gestion et de coordination de la recherche
2.2-Capacite de mener des recherches et des etudes:
2.1 .2-Gestion Scientifique et technique:
2.1 .3-Systeme de gestion administrative, financiere et de comptabilite
2.1 .4-Gestion des ressources physiques: BAT
111- LE DEVELOPPEMENT DES INFRASTRUCTURES ET DES EQUIPEMENTS
IV-LA FORMATION
V-L'ETAT D'EXECUTION ET LES CONTRAINTES MAJEURES RENCONTREES AU COURS DE
LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET
5. 1-Execution des programmes et gestion scientifique:
5.2-Gestion financiere et comptable
5.3-Gestion des ressources
5.4-Developpement des infrastructures et acquisition d'Equipements
VI -   La DURABILITE DU PROJET:
VII-  LES PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE ET DE L'AGENCE
D'EXECUTION DU PROJET:
VIII - L'ESTIMATION DES RESULTATS
IX-   LES PERSPECTIVES DU PROJET:



33
9.1 -Organisation et gestion du projet
9.2-Ressources du Projet



34
INTRODUCTION
Le Projet Recherches Agricoles (PRA) trouve son origine, ses concepts, et ses objectifs dans
l'importance que les recherches agricoles representent pour le secteur agricole, axe central de 1'economie
nationale. En effet, le secteur agricole occupe 80% de la population active et contribue pour 35 % au
PIB. Cependant, le taux de croissance du secteur de 2,5% ne permet pas de compenser l'accroissement
demographique qui est de 2,68% l'an.
Outre, l'objectif fondamental d'assurer I'autosuffisance alimentaire et d'accroitre la production
des cultures de rente, la strategie nationale de developpement du secteur agricole a long terme doit
assurer la stabilite des systemes de production et la protection de l'environnement.
Les recherches agricoles etant a la base du developpement agricole, des efforts devraient &re
faits sur l'organisation et la planification des dites recherches.
C'est dans ce sens que le Gouvernement a en 1982 initie une reflexion approfondie, suivie d'un
diagnostic sur les recherches agricoles en 1983. Ce diagnostic qui a e  fait par une mission conjointe
FAO/ISNAR/Banque Mondiale reveiait que:
- les ressources nationales etaient relativement faibles tant sur le plan financier qu'au niveau des
ressources humaines pour organiser et executer les recherches agricoles, alors que le Burkina Faso a un
besoin urgent d'expertise afin de prendre en main l'orientation scientifique et son developpement
agricole.
- 1'etat de l'organisation et de la programmation des recherches agricoles etait relativement
complexe en raison de la diversite des administrations, institutions et de leurs programmes et projets
respectifs.
- la dispersion des responsabilites entre differents ministeres et des institutions de cooperation
bilaterale et internationale, rendait difficile la gestion et la coordination des activites de recherche sur le
plan institutionnel.
- des d6sequilibres geographiques dans la mise en oeuvre des programmes en ce qui concerne
leur nombre et leur importance, le Nord et l'Est etant desherites.
Suite aux conclusions et recommandations de cette mission conjointe, le Burkina Faso s'est
engage avec I'aide de ses partenaires, dans un processus de planification en vue d'elaborer des
programmes prioritaires de recherche qui repondent aux preoccupations principales du developpement.



35
Ainsi en 1985, l'Institut Voltaique des Recherches Agronomiques et Zootechniques (IVRAZ)
organise un seminaire national regroupant les representants de huit ministeres et les partenaires de la
cooperation. Des propositions de huit programmes prioritaires presentes par l'IVRAZ ont e  discut6es et
adoptees, pour former le Programme National de Recherches Agricoles (PNRA).
Ce seminaire a permis d'une part l'initiation d'un consensus entre le gouvernement, les bailleurs
de fonds et les organisations intemationales de recherche sur une strategie nationale en matiere de
recherche agricole, et d'autre part l'adoption du programme national de recherche des huit programmes
de recherches presentes par priorit .
La mise en place des structures, l'organisation et l'ex6cution des huit programmes de recherche
dans le cadre PNRA ont et possible grace au Projet Recherche Agricole (PRA) finance par un accord de
credit de l'AID en 1988.
Le present rapport fait la synthese de l'execution du projet avec un accent particulier sur les
objectifs, les resultats attendus et les contraintes majeures rencontrees pendant l'execution.
I- LES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET:
Le Projet Recherche Agricole dans son ensemble doit a long terme contribuer de maniere durable
a l'augmentation des productions et des revenus des producteurs tout en preservant 1'environnement.
A ce titre , la phase I du projet (Credit 1896 BUR) devrait atteindre les objectifs suivants:
i) renforcer et consolider les aptitudes de l'emprunteur a preparer, executer et evaluer des
programmes de recherche agricole, y compris la recherche sur ltlevage et la recherche forestiere;
ii) ameliorer l'equilibre entre les divers programmes de recherche individuels, en mettant
davantage I'accent sur la recherche pluridisciplinaire et sur la recherche axee sur les systemes de
production plut6t que sur les cultures , comme cela etait le cas dans le passe;
iii) renforcer les liens entre la recherche agricole et les services de vulgarisation;
II- LES RESULTATS DU PROJET
2.1- Renforcement institutionnel, des m6canismes de gestion et de coordination de la recherche
Au plan national, l'INERA,agence d'execution du projet est un institut sp6cialise du CNRST,
sous l'autorite du MESSRS. Cette position a permis a l'INERA de s'ins6rer dans un tissu institutionnel,
ou chaque structure est regie par des textes administratifs qui definissent les objectifs, les fonctions, les



36
responsabilites et les relations inter-institutionnelles. En particulier le Raabo interminist6riel NAn
IV/037/CNR/FSRS/MAE du 16 juin qui charge officiellement l'INERA des recherches agricoles a defini
les relations hierarchiques et fonctionnelles ainsi que les modalites de collaboration avec les structures
nationales et les differents partenaires.
2.2-Capacite de mener des recherches et des etudes:
Les huit programmes de recherche prevus sont effectivement mis en oeuvre. Dans la forme nous
avons un institut unique et indivisible, alors que les recherches etaient jadis morcelees entre plusieurs
instituts jusqu'en 1985.
Aujourd'hui, IINERA dispose d'une masse critique de chercheurs (cf tableau II), meme si l'on
constate des insuffisances en ressources humaines au niveau de certains programmes de recherche. La
grande majorite des chercheurs ont grace au projet acquis un niveau eleve de formation (Doctorat) et
peuvent s'acquitter efficacement de leurs taches (cf Tableau III).
Par ailleurs, le statut du personnel Chercheurs et Enseignants a permis aux chercheurs de
l'INERA d'encadrer des etudiants et de dispenser des cours a l'Universite et aux Enseignants Chercheurs
de participer A la mise en oeuvre de certains programmes de l'INERA.
La cooperation avec les structures nationales (Agri-Ra, DVA, BUNASOL, DIMA, CRPA et
autres structures nationales et projets de developpement) A travers des protocoles d'accord et les instances
de concertation que sont le comite Technique, la Commission des Programmes et le Conseil de Gestion a
grandement contribue aux succes des interventions de l'INERA sur le terrain.
Ce potentiel scientifique national a e  complete par une equipe de chercheurs expatries de la
cooperation scientifique bilaterale et intemationale. Chaque programme de recherche (y compris la
Direction de l'INERA) a beneficie d'au moins un assistant Technique pour l'appui A la coordination et/ou
l'execution des activites de recherche pendant les cinq premieres annees du projet.
La cooperation sous regionale a travers les organismes sous-regionaux, internationaux et
particulierement les reseaux de recherche ont e  des moyens ayant permis d'augmenter la capacite de
recherche de l'institut.L'INERA a joue un r6le important dans l'organisation et la mise en oeuvre des
programmes regionaux.II a particulierement contribue A la preparation pour la mise en place du p6le de
Gestion des ressources naturelles.
En plus des activites de recherche de leurs programmes, les chercheurs ont pu realise plusieurs
etudes, (6valuations et etudes au compte des instituts nationaux de la sous-region y compris l'INERA et
des organismes regionaux de recherche) et dispense des formations aux techniciens specialises des
CRPA et des projets de developpement et des ONG.



37
La creation des trois nouvelles stations en plus des anciennes stations constitue une base pour la
regionalisation de la recherche, axe central de la strategie du PNRA. Actuellement les activites de
recherche sont menees dans ces differentes stations regionales sous la responsabilite des chefs de centre
pour ce qui concerne les stations nouvellement creees, et sous la responsabilite des coordonnateurs
d'equipe dans les autres centres. Chaque CRRA dispose d'un programme d'activites de recherche formule
sur la base de l'identification des contraintes et potentialites de sa region.
Pour une meilleure utilisation des infrastructures techniques (terrains d'experimentation, gestion
du foncier, exploitations agricoles etc.) I'INERA a mis en place un service scientifique et technique dans
chaque station.
L'installation effective des principaux laboratoires et des Cellules d'appui Technique telle que la
Cellule teledetection dans la station de Kamboinse fait de cette derniere un veritable Centre de
Recherche Agricole et de Formation conformement aux previsions du projet.
En matiere de resultats scientifiques, on peut retenir:
De nombreuses varietes vulgarisables adaptees aux differentes zones agro-ecologiques du pays
dans le domaine des cereales traditionnelles (sorgho, mil mais) du riz, des oleagineux (arachide,
sesame), des legumineuses a graines (niebd), des cultures maraich6res et du coton, ont ete mises a la
disposition des producteurs.
La recherche en Productions animales est relativement jeune (en dehors de la santd animale)
mais comporte des acquis, notamment la complementation alimentaire par les sous-produits agro-
alimentaires, les formules d'aliments concentres, I'amelioration des especes fourrageres, les techniques
d'embouche.
En matiere de gestion des ressources naturelles et des techniques culturales, il existe des
resultats interessants sur les formules d'engrais mineral adaptees A toutes les cultures, sur le Burkina
Phosphate A travers l'augmentation de sa solubilite, les techniques de production de fumures organiques
pour toutes les cultures, le developpement des techniques de conservation des eaux et du sol et
d'agroforesterie.
En recherches forestieres, il s'agit surtout de connaissances approfondies des principales
essences locales, de la mise au point des techniques culturales et des dtudes sylvicoles et de la mise a
disposition de fascicules de vulgarisations scientifiques sur des plantes utiles et les techniques de
plantation.
Pour une utilisation effective de ces resultats, I'INERA a intensifie ses relations avec la
vulgarisation pendant l'execution du projet. Cela a ete possible grace A l'existence des differents



38
mecanismes, outils et structures (Bureau R/D dans chaque CRPA, cinq (5) CRRA, Programme RSP, 17
PAPEM et les AMRT. La recherche et la vulgarisation ont participe mutuellement aux instances
d'evaluation et de programmation de leurs activit6s. Les Techniciens Specialises et les agents R/D qui
ont acquis aujourd'hui un certain niveau de competence, grace a leurs formations par les chercheurs. Ces
-agents formes ont collabore de facon satisfaisante A la mise en place des tests et essai en PAPEM et en
milieu paysan.
Enfin,la mise en oeuvre des instances de concertation (Comite Technique, Commission des
Programmes et le Conseil de Gestion) a eu pour objectif d'impliquer les producteurs, les developpeurs et
les decideurs dans la gestion de l'institut aux fins de rendre pertinentes ses activites vis A vis des besoins
du developpement.
2.1.2- Gestion Scientifique et technique:
Pendant l'execution du Projet, l'INERA a base son organisation sur deux systemes:
- un systeme organique de gestion comprenant la Direction (et ses Divisions) et les
unites decentralisees de gestion (les centres de recherche et les programmes de
recherche).
- un systeme de renforcement du systeme organique comprenant les comites techniques,
les commissions de programmes, et le Conseil de Gestion respectivement au niveau des
Centres des recherche, des programmes de recherche et de la Direction.
La gestion des huit programmes de recherche (programmation et budgetisation, suivi,
fonctionnement des equipes de recherches et liaisons avec les partenaires internes et extemes, formation)
a e  assuree par des chefs de programme sous la coordination de la Direction de l'INERA A travers ses
divisions techniques.
La strategie d'intervention des programmes a repose sur trois types d'approche
- une approche SYSTEMIQUE pour etudier les contraintes du developpement et
introduire les nouvelles technologies par le programme RSP.
- une approche DISCIPLINAIRE pour resoudre les problemes de la relation eau-
sol-plante par le Programme ESFIMA.
- une approche sectorielle pour promouvoir le developpement des produits. Cette approche
concerne les programmes SOMIMA, RIZ, COTON, PRODUCTIONS ANIMALES,
PROTEAGINEUX et CULTURES MARAICHERES



39
Les structures de recherche ont ete developpees de maniere a repondre aux besoins des activites
de recherche et a fournir des services. Elles sont organisees suivant un decoupage a 3 niveaux: les
centres, les stations et les antennes.
Cinq(5) Centres de recherches agricoles ont ete mis en place Ces CRRA constituent un reseau de
recherche et d'experimentation multiregionale, couvrant uniformement les besoins essentiels de
developpement agricole national.
Enfin, le regroupement des chercheurs de meme discipline au sein des departements   est
survenu tardivement, mais a permis d'avoir une experience d'animation et d'encadrement pour la suite du
projet.
2.1.3- Systeme de gestion administrative, financiere et de comptabilite
Systeme de gestion financiere comptable: L'INERA grace au projet a mis en place un systeme de gestion
financiere et comptable informatise cle en main. Ce systeme de gestion financiere et comptable est
compose:
-d'une comptabilite generale permettant d'editer les Etats financiers (grand livre, Balance
comptable, Bilan financier, Compte d'exploitation). Ceci a l'avantage de connaitre a chaque exercice
budgetaire le patrimoine annuel et cumule de l'Institut.
-d'une comptabilite analytique permettant la ventilation de l'execution budgetaire des
Programmes de recherche, par Station de recherche, par bailleurs de fond et tout cela en fonction des
rubriques budg6taires.
L'informatisation du systeme budgetaire, comptable et financier (Logiciel Gestion Informatique
de Developpement GID) au niveau de siege a permis d'editer les memoires de remboursement adresses
aux bailleurs de fonds plus rapidement que par la comptabilite manuelle.
Le systeme comptable et financier mis en place a permis a l'INERA d'avoir un manuel de
procedure comptables et des supports comptables appropries. Aussi, les procedures de depenses et de
recettes, les visas et les signatures des Responsables autorises sont clairement definis.
Sur le plan organisationnel le systeme de gestion financiere et comptable est decentralisd pour
repondre aux.specificites des recherches agricoles. Il distingue:
- Au siege de l'INERA un service comptable central dirige par le Chef des Services comptable de
l'INERA bien structure, et dote d'une repartition des taches par comptable.



40
- Au niveau de chaque Station de recherche il y a un Service Comptable dont l'importance est
fonction de celle de la station. Dans les trois (3) principales Stations, il existe un Chef des Services
Administratifs Financiers, et un Chef Comptable, un Caissier et deux (2) ou trois (3) comptables
secondaires.
Pour les Stations secondaires, le personnel du Service comptable se limite au comptable
(Responsable du Service) et d'un (1) caissier, ces deux (2) fonctions etant incompatibles.
A partir d'Avril 1995, sur Appel d'Offres international restreint, le Cabinet "ERNST & YOUNG
Etudes Conseils" a ete adjudicataire d'un marche pour la realisation de 1'6tude diagnostique du systeme
budgetaire et comptable de lINERA.II en resulte de cette etude:
- Une acquisition de supports comptables adaptes
- Un processus de budgetisation tres detaille des activites de recherche partant d'un
programme A un theme, d'un theme a une activite et d'une activite A une operation,
- Un manuel de procedure,
- Un dossier d'etude pour la mise en place d'un reseau informatique de gestion comptable,
- En outre, l'INERA a cree des normes et fiches de budgetisation de toutes les operations   liees
aux activites de recherches agricoles,
2.1.4-Gestion des ressources physiques: BAT
Une structure de gestion des Ressources Physiques a e  mise en place grace au Projet. II s'agit
du Bureau d'Appui Technique (BAT). Ce Bureau a en son sein un Agent du materiel appuye par un
Assistant Technique en genie civil et un Architecte d'operation tous finances sur les fonds du projet.
Le BAT a eu pour attribution:
- I'acquisition,
- la planification de systeme de l'entretien de toutes les ressources materielles de l'Institut
y compris celles des stations de recherche,
- La planification, la coordination, l'evaluation et l'execution des travaux de
construction,



41
- la formation de l'Agent de materiel de l'INERA dans l'acquisition et la gestion
des ressources physiques .
III- LE DEVELOPPEMENT DES INFRASTRUCTURES ET DES EQUIPEMENTS
Dans le cadre du projet la mise en place des infrastructures et equipements a ete effective.Il s'agit
de la realisation de nouvelles infrastructures dans les nouvelles Stations DI, Kouare, Katchari
(logements, bureaux, laboratoire) et/ou la remise en etat des infrastructures dans les anciennes stations
(Farako-Ba, Kamboinse, Saria, Niangoloko), de la construction du siege de l'INERA, de l'agrandissement
du siege de l'IRBET (cf tableau V).
En outre, L'INERA a acquis grace au projet des equipements appropries de diverses natures (cf
tableau VI et VII):
- Equipements scientifiques et de laboratoire;
- Equipements agricoles et du materiel roulant (camions,
vehicules autres & motos);
- Equipements audio-visuel, materiel et mobilier de bureau.
IV-LA FORMATION
La recherche agricole qui est un domaine scientifique a besoin d'un personnel qualifie et de haut
niveau. C'est ainsi que la formation des chercheurs (formation de longue duree) reste de loin le volet qui
a le plus beneficie des efforts entrepris dans le cadre de l'execution du PRA, tant en quantite et qualite,
qu'en diversite disciplinaire (cf tableaux III, X et XI).
V.    L'ETAT D'EXECUTION ET LES CONTRAINTES MAJEURES RENCONTREES
AU COURS DE LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET:
Malgre la mise en oeuvre effective des activites du projet et les resultats acquis, l'execution du
projet a connu plusieurs problemes, identifies soit par le personnel de l'institut, soit par les missions de
supervision et de revue a mi-parcours ou encore par les audits. L'institut a pu resoudre certains
problemes. Ici, sont retenus les problemes essentiels qui ont eu un effet negatif sur ses resultats.
5.1-Execution des programmes et gestion scientifique:



42
Execution des activites de recherche: 11 faut noter l'insuffisance quantitative et parfois qualitative des
chercheurs, alliee a l'absence des chercheurs partis en formation' pour couvrir tous les besoins de
recherche ; ainsi, certains domaines cles comme les technologies alimentaires et post recoltes, les
cultures fruitieres, les plantes A tubercules n'ont pas fait l'objet d'investigations significatives. Il en est de
meme pour certaines disciplines indispensables qui n'ont pas ete entierement couvertes. Cette
insuffisance quantitative des ressources s'explique en grande partie par les restrictions de recrutement
dans le cadre du Programme d'Ajustement structurel qui etaient en vigueur.L'evolution lente de
l'integration des activites et de la pratique de la pluridisciplinarit6 au sein des programmes, l'inadaptation
du statut de chercheurs au type de recherche, la disponibilite de tresorerie en temps opportun li6e a la
lenteur des procedures de decaissements sont autant de facteurs qui ont affect6 sur les resultats actuels.
Regionalisation des recherches: La regionalisation des recherches issue du plan directeur de l'INERA
avait prevu l'installation du siege de chaque programme dans un des centres et l'affectation des
chercheurs et techniciens des equipes secondaires de programmes dans les autres centres. Ce sch6ma de
regionalisation n'a pas ete realise du fait de 1' insuffisances en ressources humaines et du retard dans la
construction des infrastructures des centres. Devant cette impasse, une reflexion men6e au plan r6gional
en 1992, en liaison avec les structures du developpement, a conclu que la meilleure solution pour
rapprocher la recherche des agriculteurs etait la mise en place sur chaque centre d'une equipe
pluridisciplinaire A forte specificite regionale. Cette mise en place qui devrait se faire progressivement
est actuellement en cours et devra &re entierement realisee en debut d'execution du plan strategique.
Valorisation des resultats de la recherche : La valorisation des acquis de la recherche reste toujours un
dufi pour l'INERA. En effet les resultats attendus du mecanisme de liaison entre la recherche et la
vulgarisation n'ont pas 6te A la mesure des attentes. Cette situation s'explique par des insuffisances
d'ordre institutionnel, organisationnel et de suivi des decisions. il stagit precis6ment:
- du mauvais fonctionnement des instances de concertation (passivite des partenaires du developpement
par rapport A leurs r6les dans les instances de concertation, mauvaise preparation de la tenue des
instances,
- de la non representativite des producteurs liee A leur inorganisation et au probleme de communication);
- des conditions defavorables A l'utilisation des technologies de la recherche (inaccessibilite de credit,
manque de structures de production de semences et problemes de commercialisation et de valorisation
des produits).
I-Pour minimiser les consequences de cette absence, l'INERA adopte la formation en sandwich,
permettant au chercheur d'etre au sein de son programme pendant son stage-terrain.



43
Formation: Malgre les resultats satisfaisants des difficultes ont existe portant sur la non programmation
de la formation a courte duree, difficultes d'inscription dues aux cofits et I'arret de certaines formations
de longue duree qui etaient en cours.
5.2-Gestion financiere et comptable
Le systbme de gestion financiere et comptable informatise cle en main mis en place au profit de
l'INERA a connu d6s le debut du projet des problbmes importants pour plusieurs raisons.
- le demarrage effectif du projet a eu lieu six (6) mois aprbs la formation des
comptables du logiciel acquis
- Le Representant du Logiciel residait au Canada.
- La majorite des comptables presents au debut du projet n'avait pas une formation
comptable proprement dite mais d'Agent publics administratifs.
Cela a eu pour consequence en 1990, que les comptables n'aient pas pu utiliserjudicieusement le
logiciel, I'appui necessaire n'etant pas sur place dans le pays. Aussi, les etats financiers des exercices
1989 et 1990 n'ont pas pu etre edites a temps, les memoires de remboursement ont ete 6tablis
manuellement d'ou une lenteur dans le decaissement des fonds. Le problbme de tresorerie a persiste du
fait de la longueur du circuit de d6caissement. (Stations de recherche ---> siege INERA---> DG-COOP---
> Mission Residente de la Banque Mondiale ---------> Banque Mondiale (Wasbington)--->institutions
financieres (BCEAO, Compte special PRA). La duree moyenne de ce circuit de decaissement est
d'environ soixante dix (70) jours. Enfin la meconnaissance des regles de gestion des projets sur
financement Banque Mondiale a eu un impact sur l'execution
financieres du projet.
La mise en oeuvre des conclusions de 1'etude diagnostique du systbme budget comptable,
financier de l'INERA a connu des difficultes. En effet la mise en place du nouveau systeme comptable
preconise par "ERNST & YOUNG Conseil" s'est heurtee a la fin du Projet Recherches Agricoles. Aussi,
l'inexistence des budgets des programmes en 1996 n'a pas permis de tester I'integralite du systeme. Une
simulation a ete faite et concernait les pibces de d6penses du ler trimestre 1996.
Enfin, la recuperation de l'avance du compte special en Droits de tirages speciaux (DTS) a cree
un blocage d'un montant d'environ 260.0000 000 FCFA sur le credit du projet. Cette operation financiere
inattendue a epuise les fonds du projet et empeche la realisation du Reseau Informatique de gestion.
5.3-Gestion des ressources



44
Le Bureau d'Appui Technique (BAT) charge entre autres de la mise en place d'un systeme de
gestion de ressources physiques etait compose d'un expert en genie civil, Chef du BAT, d'un Architecte
d'operation, d'un Technicien en batiment, d'un Agent du materiel et un personnel d'appui (Secretaire,
Dessinateur, Tireur de Plan...).
Cependant en 1994, I'Architecte d'operation s'est vu oblige de piloter seul l'ensemble des
investissements en genie civil du fait que l'Expert en genie civil ait subi un accident de la route et le
Technicien en batiment une perte de ses capacites motrices. Ces deux (2) Agents sont demeures inactifs
jusqu'a la fin du Projet.
5.4-Developpement des infrastructures et acquisition d'Equipements
Le developpement des infrastructures et acquisition d'dquipements dans le cadre du projet
Recherches Agricoles est la mission assignee au Bureau d'Appui Technique (BAT). Les difficultes
rencontrees ont et6 de plusieurs ordres:
- La complexite des ouvrages A caractere de recherche scientifique et des amenagements de
parcelle d'experimentation a conduit A quelques insuffisances dans l'dlaboration des dossiers techniques.
- La lourdeur de la passation des marches publics a engendre des retards dans le developpement
des infrastructures et l'acquisition des equipements.
- La non-implication reelle des beneficiaires (Chefs de D6partements, Chefs de Programmes,
Chefs de Stations) dans le processus de l'elaboration du dossier technique, dans le choix des
adjudicataires et le suivi de l'ex6cution des investissements et leur non responsabilisation ont conduit a
de nombreuses contestations par rapport A l'utilite et a la fonctionnalite des differents ouvrages realises.
- Le peu de competence de certaines entreprises locales a conduit A des differents ayant entramin
la reprise de certains ouvrages ou A la resiliation pure et simple des contrats.
- La non-prevision initiale de certains travaux A caractere indispensable pour les recherches
agricoles tels les amenagements des parcelles d'experimentation et des zones d'acces aux stations (pont,
ravin, etc.) a rendu impossible leur realisation du fait de leur complexite, de leur delai d'execution et
d'absence de ressources financieres vers la fin du projet.
VI. La DURABILITE DU PROJET:
Pendant les deux dernieres annees du projet, le gouvemement a donne des instructions pour
elaborer un plan strategique de la recherche scientifique au Burkina Faso. Le Plan Strategique des
Recherches Agricoles (PSRA) qui est tire de ce plan, a e  principalement elabore sur la base des



45
contraintes et potentialites regionales, du bilan des acquis de la recherche et des resultats d'evaluation des
programmes executes au cours du Projet Recherches Agricoles.
Le PSRA qui sera mis en oeuvre pendant la deuxieme phase du PRA a dans ses objectifs
prioritaires, la perennisation des acquis de la premiere phase du PRA.
L'adoption (18 octobre 1995) de ce plan qui doit contribuer a la realisation du PASA et du
PANE, et la restructuration organisationnelle et institutionnelle de la Recherche Scientifique Nationale
viennent renforcer la volont6 marquee des autorit6s politiques de promouvoir les recherches agricoles et
environnementales.
A cet environnement politique favorable, s'ajoute l'interet grandissant des utilisateurs (structures
d'encadrement, producteurs, projets de developpement, op6rateurs economiques du secteur agricole)
technologies de la recherche. Ce comportement s'explique d'une part, par une plus grande ouverture des
recherches agricoles aux utilisateurs par leur implication dans l'identification de leurs besoins en
recherche, et d'autre part, par l'emergence d'un besoin urgent de mieux produire tout en modemisant le
secteur agricole tant au niveau des autorites politiques qu'au niveau des producteurs depuis la
devaluation du F cfa du 12 janvier 1994. En plus du statut des chercheurs qui est l'un des plus attrayants
de la Fonction Publique, un nouveau statut applicable A tout le personnel du CNRST. Ce statut est assez
incitatif et devrait maintenir le potentiel humain necessaire A l'execution du projet.
Concernant les moyens, les autorites politiques ont recu 1'engagement de la Banque Mondiale A
financer les activites du projet pendant 4 ans. Par ailleurs, Elles ont entrepris des recherches de
financement complementaire dans le cadre de la cooperation bilaterale pour le reste des activites du Plan
non couvert par le financement Banque Mondiale.
Prenant en compte toutes ces considerations, on peut dire que les conditions sont reunies la
durabilite du projet.
VII- LES PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE ET DE L'AGENCE
D'EXECUTION DU PROJET:
Les performances de la Banque Mondiale et de la partie nationale aux differentes 6tapes du cycle
du projet (identification, assistance a la preparation, evaluation, revue A mi-parcours et supervision) ont
e  de fa,on generale satisfaisante.
La Banque a toujours constitue des equipes de travail pluridisciplinaires de facon A couvrir les
differentes composantes du Projet, et leurs interlocuteurs de la partie nationale, (chercheurs et/ou
responsables gestionnaires) se sont montres A la hauteur de la tache.



46
Toutefois des divergences sur certaines questions (aspects institutionnels, certaines
recommandations et echeances) ont engendre des frictions par moment de part et d'autre.
L'impression de la partie nationale par rapport a ces questions notamment celle relative aux
aspects institutionnels, est que la Banque va au dela de ses competences.
Les changements successifs des Task Managers (3 en 7 ans) avec des philosophies differentes et
les directives de la Banque au lieu des propositions, expliquent aussi les difficultes entre la Banque et la
partie Nationale.
Par ailleurs, quelques lacunes dans 1'6valuation du projet, ont ete constatdes lors de la revue a mi-
parcours en avril 1992. La plus importante de ces lacunes concerne la non prise en compte des
amenagements des parcelles experimentales des nouvelles stations (Di, Kouare, Katchari) et la refection
de celles des anciennes stations. Cet investissement du fait de sa complexite et de sa non maitrise par les
entreprises nationales s'est arretee au stade des etudes et de I'elaboration des termes de reference pour des
dossiers d'appel d'offres.
En fin la performance de 1'execution du projet est passee de peu satisfaisante de 1989-1990
(faible decaissement), a une nette amelioration entre 1991 et 1990, pour etre hautement satisfaisante
entre 1993 et 1995.En 1996 (derniere annee du projet), 1'execution du projet est restee satisfaisante avec
un rythme inferieur a la periode precedente. Cela s'explique par l'impact environnemental de fin de projet
(problemes de tresorerie dus a la recuperation de I'avance du compte special) des juillet 1995, probleme
de fins de contrat des Agents contractuels du projet le 31/03/1996 et ralentissement dans l'execution des
activites de recherche.
Compte tenu des insuffisances ci-mentionn6es et surtout de l'extension du PRA II, la partie
nationale souhaite l'affectation de deux specialistes de la Mission Residente de la Banque Mondiale
respectivement au PRA II et PRSAP II.
VIII-L'ESTIMATION DES RESULTATS
L'evaluation quantitative et qualitative des r6sultats atteints par le projet est satisfaisante.
Les donnees sur plusieurs resultats qui attestent cette appreciation sont recapitules dans les differents
tableaux en annexe.
Ressources humaines: Les tableaux montrent particulierement la constitution d'un capital important en
ressources humaines scientifiques et de gestion de la recherche. Le personnel est passe de 281 personnes
au demarrage du projet a 563 (cf tableau XII). Plus de 80 % de ce personnel est paye par le budget de
I'6tat garantissant ainsi son maintien pour les recherches. Par ailleurs les ressources humaines (en



47
particulier les chercheurs) ont connu une evolution qualitative comme il en ressort du tableau et des
donnees ci-dessous.
Au niveau des chercheurs:
- 26 chercheurs ont et formes a la redaction d'articles scientifiques dont 19 sur financement
USAID et 17 sur financement PRA;
- 10 autres chercheurs ont e  formes a l'utilisation du logiciel de traitement statistique
GENSTAT;
- 51 chercheurs ont beneficie d'une formation en anglais, financee par l'USAID.
Au niveau des Techniciens:
- 100 agents ont e  formes sur des themes generaux de recherche pour les mettre a niveau;
- 30 techniciens ont ete formes en defenses des cultures;
- I seminaire regional sur "la production ecologiquement durable du niebe" a e  organise par le
projet PEDUNE.
Au niveau des formations individuelles
Plus de 75 personnes ont e  formees dans des domaines aussi variees que la comptabilite, le
secr6tariat, la gestion du personnel et de la recherche, l'informatique, etc...
Enfin le projet a permis le recrutement de personnel technique et scientifique d 'appui et d'une
dizaine de comptables de formation appropriee (BEP-comptable, BAC comptable, DUT comptable) qui
ont beneficie d'une formation adaptee et permanente tout au long de l'execution du projet.
Resultats scientifiques: Concernant les resultats scientifiques, en plus des acquis mentionnes a la
section 2.2, les programmes ont genere plusieurs produits qui participent soit a la formulation des
nouvelles recherches, soit au processus de transfert de technologies, et ou encore aux conseils et a la
formation. 11 stagit des banques de donndes de referentiels, de publications scientifiques (cf tableau IV) et
techniques (informations), des methodologies, de savoir-faire, innovations techniques (materiels
agricoles).
RWalisations physiques: La realisation des infrastructures et l'acquisition des equipements dans le cadre
du projet a ete satisfaisant. En effet on a note d'importants investissements dans la construction et la
rehabilitation des laboratoires, bureaux, logements et des etudes pour les travaux d'amenagement. Toutes
ses realisations et la dotation de l'institut d'un edifice du siege, met l'ensemble du personnel dans des
meilleures conditions de travail. Le batiment du siege contribue egalement a rehausser l'image de marque



48
de la recherche agricole.Le tableaux V et VI recapituient les differentes realisations en infrastructures et
equipements.
IX- LES PERSPECTIVES DU PROJET:
9.1-Organisation et gestion du projet:
Pour donner plus de succes a la deuxieme phase du projet des discussions concertees entre le
Gouvemement, la Banque Mondiale et l'Agence d'execution ont debouche sur plusieurs actions. Ainsi le
projet sera une composante du Projet de Developpemrent des Services Agricoles (PDSA) phase II (dont
l'une des composantes est le PRSAP) dans le cadre du Programme d'Ajustement Sectoriel Agricoles
(PASA II).
La premiere action a et l'elaboration du PSRA qui sera mis en oeuvre dans le cadre du futur
projet. Le PSRA a fusionne les recherches forestieres avec les recherches agricoles pour creer l'Institut
de l'Environnement et des Recherches Agricoles (INERA) charge de l'execution du projet. Toutefois, les
activites portant sur les technologies alimentaires et du Machinisme Agricole seront menees ai l'Institut
des Recherches en Sciences Appliquees et de Technologie.
La responsabilite globale pour la coordination, la planification, le suivi et la supervision des
activites scientifiques relevera de la Delegation Generale du CNRST. Pour executer le projet, le
Directeur de l'IN.E.R.A. s'appuiera sur une Direction Adjointe chargee des Programmes et un service
Administratif et Financier pour coordonner les activites au sein de l'Institut. Une autre innovation est la
cr6ation d'un service Liaison Recherche-Developpement charge du developpement et de la mise en
oeuvre de strategie de liaison avec les utilisateurs de technologie.
Concernant l'organisation des activites de recherche, 20 programmes de recherche ont e
formul6s et regroupes au sein de 5 departements scientifiques : Gestion des Ressources naturelles et
Systeme de Production (GRN/SP), Productions Animales, Productions Wgetales, Production Forestieres,
Mecanisation et Transformation.
Au niveau decentralise, l'organisation regionale repose sur la delegation regionale basee sur une
station principale. Le Delegue Regional assure la coordination de la mise en oeuvre des activites de
recherche liees a la promotion agricole de sa region. Les activites de chaque programme sont
regionalisees et consignees dans un document de Programme regional en vue de leur mise en oeuvre.
A la lumiere du bilan de fonctionnement des differents mecanismes et outils mis en place au
cours du PRA I, et prenant en compte les exigences actuelles d'une recherche agricole au service des
utilisateurs, les actions suivantes sont preconisees:



49
- la mise en place d'un cadre de concertation et d'echange d'informations entre les chercheurs, les
developpeurs (CRPA, producteurs, ONG, projets de d6veloppement) a l'echelle regionale, la validation
des activites de recherche sur le plan scientifique.
- l'instauration d'un cadre de coordination et d'intervention concertee entre la Recherche et la
Vulgarisation en matiere d'adaptation des technologies niveau regional
- la creation des conditions propices permettant aux utilisateurs intermediaires d'influencer
effectivement les programmes de recherche.
- la mise en place d'un "Systeme de partenariat" de Recherche entre les instituts impliques dans
le PRA II et les differents utilisateurs en vue d'un Developpement Participatif de technologies.
9.2-Ressources du Projet
Ressources humaines: L'execution du PRA II est guide par le souci d'une utilisation rationnelle des
ressources humaines. Pour ce faire le projet veillera a :
- la definition et la repartition fonctionnelle des taches a tous les niveaux des differentes
categories socio-professionnelles par les textes dejA existants ou a creer;
- la dotation de moyens adequats et d'un cadre d'evaluation et de promotion specifique du
personnel de la recherche, accompagnee des mesures de motivation du personnel et qui permettront
d'atteindre les differents objectifs.
- la dotation de chaque programme et structure de recherche d'une masse critique de ressources
humaines dans les domaines cles de leurs fonctions.
Pour ce qui concerne particulierement les chercheurs, une methode rigoureuse basee sur des
normes (nombres d'activites que chaque specialiste peut executer par an) a permis d'evaluer les besoins a
202 chercheurs. II sera necessaire des les premieres annees du projet de combler I'ecart differentiel en
mobilisant 73 nouveaux chercheurs et 110 techniciens pour permettre la mise en oeuvre des themes de
recherche hautement prioritaires.
En matiere de formation, le projet a juge necessaire de maintenir les efforts qui ont ete faits
pendant la premiere phase pour parachever la formation des chercheurs et des gestionnaires, et faire face
aux nouveaux besoins en formation. Le document-projet donne les details en page 65.
Enfin l'Assistance Technique sera sollicitee de facon tres ponctuelle avec une priorite accord6e
aux experts nationaux et sous-regionaux et a la cooperation bilaterale pour le financement. L'utilisation
du credit IDA et de l'Assistance Technique de longue duree (2 ans) seront des derniers recours.



50
Ressources et gestion financieres et comptable: En plus des activites proprement dites , le projet
prendra en charge, les facilites de recherche additionnelles , des moyens de transport, de materiel
technique, des charges de fonctionnement des frais de personnel contractuel de facon degressive. Le
Cofit total provisoire du projet de 9 269 500 000 cfa sera finance par le credit
IDA (8 331 150 000 cfa) et la contre partie nationale (938 350 000 cfa).
La mise en place du nouveau systeme de gestion financiere et comptable doit se poursuivre. II
s'agira notamment de r6aliser:
- le reseau informatique de gestion comptable afin de permettre aux differents comptables des
stations et du siege de l'INERA de s'acquitter simultanement de leurs taches quotidiennes et de respecter
ainsi les organigrammes des differents services de gestion comptable ainsi que la repartition des taches.
Cette adequate repartition des taches est la base meme d'un systeme de contr6le interne fiable .
- L'evaluation de la mise en place du systeme de gestion y compris l'utilisation du logiciel
TOMPRO par le cabinet specialise. Cette evaluation qui devrait etre faite par le Cabinet ERNST &
YOUNG n'a pas et6 realisee du fait de la fin du Projet Recherche Agricoles.
- La formation continue des comptables doit etre realisee en fonction des lacunes soulevees par
les differents contr6le et les Audits financiers et comptables. Cette formation sur carte doit pouvoir etre
faite une fois/an et A chaque debut d'exercice et aura une duree d'environ d'une (1) semaine.
Les diff6rents Responsables de la comptabilite pourront beneficier d'une formation specialisee de
courte duree.
- Le depart successif des differents responsables de la comptabilite pour des postes plus
attrayants sur le plan remuneration doit etre resolu par la mise en place d'un barbme de salaire plus
stimulant ou/et des indemnites consequentes.
Ressources physiques: L'acquisition des equipements et la mise en place des infrastructures dans la I ere
phase du projet Recherches Agricoles a connu certaines insuffisances en qualite et en quantite.
Cependant des besoins importants sont A noter dans le cadre de la phase II du projet. Certains
investissements complementaires et adaptes seront realises tant au niveau du genie civil que de
I'acquisition des 6quipements.La realisation de ces investissements suivra une strategie de
developpement permettant de combler les lacunes jadis rencontrees. (voir Page 75 A 76 du document de
plan de mise en oeuvre du Plan Strategique des Recherches Agricoles).



51
Tableau I: Les Centres Regionaux de Recherches Agricoles
CENTRE           STATION DE RECHERCHE                PRINCIPAL AXE DE
RECHERCHE
CRAF                    Kamboinse                           - Abrite les principaux
laboratoires
- Systeme de production
- Relation eau-sol-plante
CRRA du Nord            Katchari, Dori                      - Elevage (Ruminants)
CRRA du Centre          Saria, Koudougou                    Cultures (sorgho + mil)
CRRA de lEst            Kouare, Fada N'Gourma               Legumineuses (arachide et niebe)
CRRA du Nord-Ouest    Di, Tougan                            Systemes d'irrigation, Transfert de
Technologie
CRRA du Sud             Farako-Ba, Bobo-Dioulasso           Systemes de culture a dominance
coton, maifs, riz



52
Tableau I: Programmes, Axes de Recherche et la Repartition du Personnel Scientifique et
Technique de l'INERA
Programmes de Recherche   Axes de Recherche             Nombre de        Nombre de            C/T*
__________________________    Chercheurs (C)   Techniciens (T)
Recherche sur les Systemes  Recherche sur les Syst&mes
de Production (RSP)       Agro-Sylvo-Pastoraux pour la
Production efficace et la           23              45              1:2.0
Conservation des Ressources
Naturelles                       ___
Eau-Sol-Fertilisation-    Sol, Eau, Fertilite, Irrigation
Irrigation-Mecanisation   Mecanisation           -            12               20             1:1.7
(ESFIMA
Recherche sur les         Systeme de Production et
Productions Animales      d'Amelioration des Ressources        8               19             1:2.4
Animales
Amelioration des Cereales   Sorgho
(SOMIMA)                  Mais                                17               28             1:1.7
Mil
Legumes et Oleagineux     Niebe, Arachide
(PROTEAGINEUX)            Oleagineux Legumineuses              14              27             1:1.2
Recherche et production de  Recherche sur le riz               6               29             1:4.8
Riz (RIZ)
Programme Coton           Recherche sur le coton               51:2.2
(COTON)
Programme Cultures,
Marakch6res, Fruitieres   Legumes, fruits et racines           5               11             1:2.2
Plantes a Tubercules)      ____
TOTAL                                                         90               160



53
Programmation effectuee en 1989
Pour 5 ans
Nombre de chercheurs en 1989: 73
Tableau HII: EVOLUTION DU PERSONNEL SCIENTIFIQUE ET TECHNIQUE DE
L'IN.E.R.A. 1989-1996
Nombre
Dipl6mes
Annee 1989*          Annee 1996**
Doctorat d'Etat                                       1                     3
Doctorat unique                              0]                             14
PhD                                          1]       19                   11
Doctorat 3e cycle                          I                               20
]18]                            10
Doctorat Ingenieur                             ]
DEA                                                                         16
MSc                                                  22                     6
Autres (Bac + 5)                                      6
BSC                                                                         2
IA/IDR/IE/IEF                                        20                    22
ITA/ITE/ITDR                                          5                     5
(BTS, DAE (Technicien Superieur)                                           (21)
(ATAS (Agents Technique)                                                   (12)
TOTAL                                                73                    109
* Source: Passation de service entre P.C. BELEM, Directeur
sortant INERA et P. SEREME, Directeur entrant - Annexes
septembre 1994.
** Proposition de repartition du personnel scientifique et technique dans les nouveaux
instituts - CNRST - Direction scientifique.



Tableau IV: Publications de l'IN.E.R.A. a la Documentation
1988     1989      1990    1991      1992       1993      1994        1995        1996        TOTAUX
PROGRAMME    ____ __ ___ ____                                                 l__
RSP                        6        2         3       16        15        15         61       29          35             182
ESFIMA                     2        4         6       3          3         7         14        3           2             44
PROTEAGINEUX               0        0         5       7          6         6         7         2           0             39
RIZ                        2        2         1       4          2         0         5         7           2             25
SOMIMA                     3        2         1       8          6         3         3         5           0             31
COTON                      3        2         2       6          4         6         8         2           0             31
CMFPT                      I        0         3       2          1         1         5         0           0             13
PA                         3        2         0       2          3         3         5         13          26            67
TOTAUX                    20        14       21       48        30        22        108       61           75           432
4-



Tableau V: Realisation des infrastructures
Date d'acquisition                    Designation       Quantite    Etat        Lieu         Prix total
Marche 68/90/Plan-Coop/MESSRS du 30/01/90   Construction de 11        11      Bon    CRRA             130.070.208
logements A Fada                         FADA
N'Gourma
Marche 35/92/MFP/MESSRS/du 17/09/91         Construction de 8         08      Bon    CRRA             70.804.476
logements A Dori                         DORI
marche 70/91/PLAN-COOP/MESSRS du            Construction de 7         07      Bon    CRRA DI          70.804.476
12/02/91                                    logements A Di
Marche 71/91/PLAN-COOP/MESSRS du            Construction du siege     01      Bon        SIEGE        128.660.088
9/04/91                                     de l'INERA
Marche 009/94/MFP/MESSRS du 7/02/94         Construction de           09      Bon        FADA         140.955.633
batiments de divers A
Fada et Kouare
Marche 010/94/MFP/MESSRS du 7/02/94         Construction de           14      Bon         DORI        194.895.479
batiments divers A
Dori et Katchari
Marche 01 1/94/MFP/MESSRS du 7/02/94        Construction de           08      Bon       CRRA DI       96.676.897   |,
batiments de divers A                                                                                kX
Di
Marche 166/MEFP/MESSRS/INERA du             Construction              09      Bon    CRRA             80.877.364
07/09/94                                    rehabilitation de                        FARAKO-
batiments A Farako-Ba                    BA
Marche 197/94/MEFP/MESSRS/INERA du          Construction et           10      Bon    CRAF             91.709.904
17/09/94                                    reamenagement de                         KAMBOINS
batiments A                              E
Kamboinse
Marche 168/94/MEFP/MESSRS/INERA du          Construction et           12      Bon    CRRA             97.574.442
09/09/94                                    rehabilitation de                        SARIA
bAtiments A Saria
Marche                                      Construction de 5         05      Bon    CRRA             43.400.580
logements a Tougan                       TOUGAN
Marche                                      Siege IRBET               01      Bon        IRBET         85.000.000
Niangoloko                                  Rehabilitation de         10      Bon      Niangoloko
batiments



TableauiVI: Acquisition de materiels de bureau
TATIONS   ARMOIRES ET 2 CLASSEUR FAUTEUILS TABLES CHAlSES MACHINES A            MlCRO          CALCULA PHOTOCO- FAX MACHINE VENTI-  PRESEN- COFFRE
BATTANTS                                           ECRIRE           ORDINATEURS   TRICES PIEUSES           DE TIRAGE ATEURS  OIR       ORT
anuel    Elect  3ureau    Port
IRECTION            18      30        38          6     110       2         5     21        5      7        2       I       2       -        2
7       -        I          3      26                                                                         6 I  -  I  I  I  -  6  1  1
FARAKO-BA           20       34       71         54    202        5         4      10       3      9         3      1                         I       I
KM0NSE           34       1s       57         42    129        2         10     16      10      5         2      1       3       3         I       1
IATCIARI             9        3        16         5      40                 I       -              I         I      I                2        I       I
'OUARE               4        3        12         4      21                                                            . I  I  I     4        1       1
IANGOLOKO           9        I        IS          5     23        -         I      -           I             1      I               I            I
SARIA               24       26       21          17    57        2                1        2      2         I      1                -        I       -
ANFORA              5        7        13          -      19        I               I               I         I      I               -        0        -
RBET                 -        -        4          -      12             -           I                -              I            -
TOTAL              130      119       258        136    639       14       22      50      21     27        13      9       5       16       10      7
Tableau VHI: Acquisition des equipements et materiels roulants
STATIONS    VEHICULES TRACTION   GROUPE                              TRACTION    MOTOPOMPE VEHICULE A 2   "
EQUIPE            ELECTROGEN ANIMALES                                 ROUES
E
DIRECTION                    11                 -                -                                   -                3
DI                            3                 1                1                 1                2                 4
FARAKO-BA                     10                I                -                 I                 1               14
KAMBOINSE                    10                 1                -                 1                2                14
KATCHARI                      3                 1                1                 1                 -                4
KOUARE                        3                 1                1                 1                 -                4
NIANGOLOKO                    2                 1                1                 1                 -                3
SARIA                         5                 1                -                 1                 -                6
BANFORA                       I
IRBET                         2                 -                -
TOTAL                        50                 7                4                 7                 5               53



-7
Tableau VIII: Evaluation annuelle des depenses du PRA I
Montant des decaissements
TOTAL
Categorie                        Annee   Annee   Annee   Annee   Annee    Annee    Annee    Ann6e
1989     1990     1991     1992      1993      1994      1995      1996
Depenses
Cat.l. Genie Civil                  -      I        .166.92   238.12   118,28    315,95    809,15    497,89     2 164.18
Cat.II. Equipements               22,9     56.07    181,41    99.9      2,52     247.14    344.38    115,52     1 069.91
II.A. Materiels roulants         22,11    36,93    81,33     6,29     2,570    182,23    127,85    110,83
II.B. Equipt. Agr. Scientifique  0,81     19,14    100,08    93,61      -       64,91     216,53     4,69
Cat.M. Assit.Technique & Etudes   49,33    27,9     32.3    88,51    52A65    115.47    85.95        177.54      630,18
Cat.IV. Formation                   -Z a2              2                          85       i         34.57       490.51
Lnl
Cat.V. Fonctionnement            125.17   210,13   463.663   339.64   408.65    752,52    71147    345.57       3 356.53
- Personnel
- Stations Recherche
- Programme Recherche
- Siege INERA & IRBET
TOTAL                      197,42   378,91   907,02   843,17   662,45   1.516,08   1.035,29   1.171,09    7 711,25



Tableau IX: Execution financiere du PRA I
(Credit 1896 BUR)
(millions FCFA)
Categories                Montant initial    Depenses effectu6es    %      Ecart                 Observations
at. I. genie civil                  2 471,75           2 164,12         87          + 307,63 Se referer aux commentaires de la pag
u present rapport
at. II. Equipements                 1 023,67            1 069,91        104          - 46,01
Cat. III. Assist. Technique & Etudes  691,71              630,18          91          + 61,53
Cat. IV. Formation                    477,54              490,51         103,5        - 12,97
at. V. Fonctionnement               3 260,29            3 356,53        103          - 96,24                                      0
7 925,19           7 711,25        97,5         + 213,94



59
Tableau X: Resultats de la Formation Longue Duree
La formation de 68 chercheurs a ete programmee entre 1989 et 1994
Au 12/12/1996 la situation etait la suivante:
Dipl6mes                      Prevus         Obtenus         Reste
Doctorat d'Etat                                   9               2             7
Doctorat unique                                   7               7             0
PhD                                               2               2             0
Doctorat 3e Cycle                                 7               3             4
Doctorat Ingenieur                                6               5             1
DAA, DEA, DESS                                    29             27             2
Msc                                               2               2             0
Ingenieur Agronome                                6               5             1
Ingenieur des Travaux                             0               3             0
TOTAL                                            68              57            15



60
Tableau XI: Sources des bourses de formation
Sources de financement                        Nombre de bourses
PRA
3 1
FAC
08
FED
01
USAID
06
CRDI
02
Francophonie
03
ICIPE
01
BURKINA
07
TOTAL                                                                    59
Tableau XHI Ressources Humaines de lILNERA
(Prisentes an 31/12/1996)
Cat6gorie socio-professionnelle    Fonctionnaires  Permanents CNRST      Contractuels CNRST       Total
- Maitre de Recherche                  20                                         -20
- Attach6s de Recherche                28-                                                         28
- Ing6nieurs de Recherche              41                                         -                41
- Personnel d'appui                     12                 12                    44                68
scientifique
32                 78                     40               150
-- Technique
12                207                    34               256
Administratif
TOTAL                  148                 297                   118              563



61
Annex I
BURKINA FASO
PROJET DE RECHERCHE AGRICOLE (PRA)
Mission de fin d'execution du projet
Aid e-Me moi re
A.    Introduction
1.    Le present aide-memoire constitue un resume des conclusions d'une mission de la Banque
mondiale de fin d'execution du projet (National de Recherche Agricole--PRA).' La mission s'est
entretenue avec S.E. Monsieur le ministre des Enseignements Secondaire, Superieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique (MESSRS), et hauts fonctionnaires du Ministere ainsi qu'avec les cadres de la Direction
generale du CNRST et de l'INERA. Un representant du Directeur general de la Coopdration au Ministere
de l'Economie et des finances a participe a la mission. La mission remercie S.E. Monsieur le Ministre et
les cadres pour I'accueil qui lui a ete reservd, et pour le temps qui lui a etd consacre afin de discuter des
differents aspects du projet. Une reunion de synthese s'est tenue le 3 fevrier au ministere pour presenter
les conclusions de la mission.
B.    Les objectives du projet
2.     Le projet represente la premiere phase d'un plan de developpement de longue duree (10 i 15 ans)
de la recherche agricole. L'objective global a vise la mise en place d'un organisme charge des recherches
sur les productions vdgetales, animales et forestieres, rdpondant aux besoins des differentes categories de
producteurs dans les diverses zones agro-ecologiques du pays. Le personnel de cet organisme devait
comprendre chercheurs burkinabes bien formes, avec quelques consultants expatries recrutes pour des
missions de courte duree.
3.     Les objectives specifiques etaient:
*  renforcer et consolider la capacite nationale de la recherche agronomique de facon a pouvoir planifier,
ex6cuter et 6valuer des programmes de recherches agricoles, repondant aux besoins des exploitants et
ouverts aux recherches menees dans les pays voisins et dans le cadre d'instituts internationaux.
*  ameliorer l'equilibre et les relations entre les divers programmes de recherche, en mettant davantage
l'accent sur la recherche pluridisciplinaire et sur la recherche axee sur les systemes de production,
plutot que sur les cultures.
*  renforcer les liens entre les services de recherche agricole et les services de vulgarisation.
L'equipe d'evaluation comprenait: Chef d'equipe: Turto Turtiainen;Specialiste en gestion de la
recherche: Marie-Helene Collion; Specialiste en technologie agricole: Shiv Singh; Specialiste en
vulgarisation: Ibrahim Nebie; Specialiste en infrastructure et equipements: Hannibal Muhtar.
L'equipe de contrepartie comprenait: Celestin Belem (PSSA/FA); Leopold Some (DS/CNRST);
MNme Kabore (D.G Coop); Adrien Diallo (INERA/CRNST) Aly Sinon (Ministere des Infrastructures
de l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme; et Jean S. Zoundi (INERA/CRNST).



62
*  permettre la prise en charge d'une assistance technique d'appoint.
*  permettre la formation de chercheurs, des techniciens et du personnel d'appui (administratif et
financier).
*  augmenter la capacitb de gestion financiere et comptable de l'INERA.
*  renforcer les infrastructures et le cadre physique d'execution des programmes.
C.    Les resultats globaux
5.     En resume, l'objectif de renforcement de la capasite national de recherche a et largement atteint a
travers la formation. L'Institut est maintenant dote d'une solide capacite scientifique mais qu'il reste a
reequilibrer entre programmes. La plupart des travailles de genie planifies ont execut6es. Le contexte
legal a maintenant plus de coherence. L'Institut a fait preuve de ses capacites en matiere de planification
en elaborant son plan strategique en comptant sur ses capacites propres. II reste a dimensionner les
objectifs du plan strategique par rapport, a terme, a la contribution financiere de l'Etat. Certaines dquipes
de recherche ont montre leur dynamisme et leur maitrise des methodes de recherche participatives en
basant leur programmation sur une concertation etroite avec les producteurs. La regionalisation de la
recherche pour la rapprocher des producteurs n'a e  que partiellement atteinte. La reforme du systeme de
promotion des chercheurs est en cours. Une bonne collaboration avec l'Universite et l'Institut de
Developpement Rural a permis egalement de renforcer les programmes manquants de competences. Ainsi,
la capacite de recherche en ressources animales, pratiquement inexistante au depart, a pu etre renforcee et
un solide programme a ete elabore.
6.     Le projet a eu moins de sucses en ce qui concern les organes de concertation, la gestion des
stations, la programmation et budgetisation annuelle ..... ??? Les elements qui ont fait defaut au cours de la
premiere phase devraient etre mis en place durant la deuxieme phase (Chapitre E).
7.     Les cou^ts et les decaissements du projet. Le couit total du systeme de recherche agricole pendant le
projet a depasse 10 milliards de francs CFA. Tout les fonds que l'IDA avait reserve pour le projet, soit
12.1 millions de DTS (equivalent a 7,7 milliards de francs CFA) ont ete utilis6s. Pour le reste, le
gouvernement a contribue a 11% des depenses, l'USAID environ 6% et les autres donateurs (Pays-Bas,
Union Europeenne, Canada etc.) environ 14%.
8.     Le projet a demarre tr6s lentement en grande partie du fait des lourdeurs des procedures de
passation de marches. Par exemple, les decaissements de l'IDA pour les travaux de genies etaient
seulement de 194 millions de CFA pendant les cinq premier ann6es, moins de 10% du montant final de 2,2
milliards de francs CFA pour cette categorie. En outre, les ddcaissements ont connu leurs propres
problemes. Ceux-ci ont 6te largement rectifies localement et avec l'IDA, mais il existe toujours le
probleme du tres long dMlai de virement des fonds de l'IDA et de l'encaissement dans le compte special.
Ce probleme devra 8tre r6solu avant le debut du nouveau projet.
D.    Les resultats principaux
L'organisation et la gestion
9.     Le renforcement des moyens humains. C'est la le plus grand succes du projet. En effet, cet
objectif a ete largement atteint au travers en particulier de la formation, a la fois a long terme diplomante et



63
a court terme, soit dans le pays, soit a l'exterieur. Ainsi, sur 68 formations diplomantes prevues, de niveau
doctorat, master ou DEA, et ingenieur, 57 sont terminees, d'autres sont encore en cours. Une large part
(31) a ete financee sur credit IDA, les autres a partir de financement divers; Cooperation francaise, USAID,
Gouvernement Burkinabe... Ainsi, alors que l'INERA et l'IRBET ne disposaient que de 45 chercheurs de
niveau doctorat, master ou DEA en 1989, le nouvel INERA (ancien INERA et IRBET) en dispose
maintenant de 80. Dans le m8me temps, la n6cessite de recourir A des assistants techniques A long terme a
diminue: ils sont passes de 20 en 1991, A 6 en 1996. Par contre, I'appui technique aux chercheurs n'a pas
e  ameliore, au contraire (Chapitre E).
La planification. En ce qui concerne la planification, l'Institut a montre le remarquable developpement de
ses capacites dans ce domaine. Un plan strategique de la recherche agricole, comprenant 1'ensemble des
domaines de l'agriculture, y compris les ressources forestieres, les technologies post-recoltes et l'agro-
alimentaire a et6 elabor6 entre 1994 et 1995. A cette occasion, un veritable programme de gestion des
ressources naturelles a ete concu. Cette planification s'est basee sur un bilan des programmes de
recherche, conduit par des equipes externes auxquelles ont quelquefois particip6s des chercheurs des
Centres internationaux, de la sous-region ou des Instituts du Nord. Les equipes de chercheurs, temoignant
de leur maitrise des m6thodes de recherche en milieu reel, sont egalement parties d'un diagnostic
participatif regional, incluant les agents du developpement, les ONG et dans certains cas, les producteurs
organis6s.
Les organes de concertation pour la planification. Des organes de programmation et de concertation avec
les partenaires avaient et6 prevus: il s'agit des Comites Techniques Regionaux et des Commissions de
Programmes. Les premiers avaient pour objectif de permettre A la recherche d'exposer ses resultats aupres
de ses partenaires du developpement au niveau regional, et de s'accorder avec eux sur les problemes A
prendre en compte par les chercheurs.  Cette instance n'a pas e  effectivement mise en place: deux
comites techniques se sont tenus de facon satisfaisante en 1990 et 1992 au niveau national, mais au niveau
regional il n'y pas eu d'organes de concertation. L'idee des CTR a et6 reprise en 1994, lors des ateliers de
restitution des plans regionaux, qui ont constitu6 la base de l'elaboration du Plan Strategique.
L'organisation de la recherche pour le developpement. Pour rapprocher la recherche des producteurs, il
avait ete decide de construire des Centres de recherche dans les regions agro-ecologiques n'en disposant
pas: Nord, Est et Nord-Ouest et d'y loger les programmes de recherche nationaux selon les specificites de
la region. Par exemple, le programme productions animales devait etre localise A Dori (Nord). Cette
approche de la regionalisation a e  abandonnee en cours de projet au profit d'une approche qui repondrait
mieux aux besoins du d6veloppement, a travers la constitution d'equipes de recherche regionales
multidisciplinaires dont les chercheurs appartiennent aux divers programmes (le plus souvent aux
programmes ESFIMA et RSP). Ces equipes ont ete constituees relativement r6cemment, la premiere, celle
du CRRA de l'Est l'a ete en 1993.
Le contexte legal et institutionnel. Ce domaine, en particulier les relations entre le CNRST et ses instituts
specialises, n'avait pas fait l'objet d'objectif specifique dans le rapport d'evaluation, du fait que le CNRST
etait appele A disparaitre. De fait, le CNRST a continue d'exister. La revue a mi-parcours (mars 1992)
relevait les "incoherences" des textes legaux et recommandaient que ces statuts soient revises "pour
permettre (a) une autonomie de gestion; (b) plus de responsabilite dans les resultats" et pour accorder "une
plus grande delegation de pouvoir aux Instituts en matiere de nomination du personnel".
Ces reformes arrivent en fm de projet. Le CNRST est devenu un etablissement public A caractere
administratif specifique, ce qui constitue un progres par rapport au statut d'EPA anterieur qui ne
reconnaissait pas les specificites de la recherche. En ce qui concerne l'autonomie des instituts, le decret



64
portant statuts particuliers du CNRST laisse une large possibilite d'interpretation, a definir au niveau des
arretes d'organisation des instituts. Ces arretes sont encore en cours de discussions. L'INERA et l'IRBET
sont maintenant fusionnes, rendant les programmes de recherche plus coherents pour le developpement du
secteur agricole.
xx.    Systemes de gestions financiere.  Dans le but de bien equiper l'INERA  pour faire face a
l'augmentation de responsabilites, le projet visait a aider au renforcement du systbme de gestion financiere
et comptable de l'INERA avec l'appui de consultants. De difficultes ont surgi au debut a divers
problemes, en partie dues A des conflits entre les firmes nationales et 6trangeres voulant collaborer. Le
systeme a ete finalement mis en ouvre, mais avec retard par rapport aux delais initiaux. Progressivement,
il est apparu que le logiciel installe, bien qu'utilisable, etait lourd et inadapte et devait 8tre amelioree revue
a mi-parcours a recommande de revoir le systeme. Avec beaucoup de retard, une firmne comptable a et
recrutee en 1995 pour revoir le systeme et mettre en place un nouveau logiciel, maintenant pret a
fonctionner en debut 1997.
Genie civil et infrastructures
xx.    Le projet fmance les travaux de genie civil sur 7stations retenues, ainsi que la construction du
siege de l'INERA et la rehabilitation du siege de l'IRBET. II a aussi permis l'acquisition d'equipement
agricoles, la formation de court duree, et la rehabilitation des infrastructures de recherche. Cependant, le
programme de construction a et ambitieux: l'ecart est grand entre les travaux prevus et ceux finalement
realise. Ceci est dfi au fait que les besoin initiaux ont e  mal identifies et que de demandes nouvelle ont
ete imposes par les changement intervenus dans les programmes de recherches. Beaucoup de travaux
attendent encore d'8tre ex6cut6s.
XX.    Parmi le programme original de genie civil seul, seul les travaux relatifs aux nouvelles
constructions ont ete realis6s. Les etudes de levees topographiques, pedologiques et les plans
d'amenagements de sites et stations ont e  realises pour toutes 7 stations du projet. Le montant total en F
CFA est presque le double du montant pr6vus initialement. La d6valuation est en partie responsable mais
surtout des modifications importantes introduites dans les travaux encours ont contribue A alourdir les
cofits. De facon generale, les travaux ont souffert du manque de priorites dans les besoins, des
insuffisances occasionnelles de supervision en 1995/96 en raison du manque du personnel. Les
consequences sont la mauvaise qualite de travail et des insuffisances dans la conception et l'execution
des infrastructures pour la recherche.
Revision du programme de recherche
La recherche agricole est organisee en programmes produits et programmes systemes. Les resultats, en
matiere de developpement ou d'adoption de technologies des technologies a varie. Dans plusieurs
domaines, des progres a ete enregistres pendant que d'autres n'ont pas eu les resultats escomptes.
Le riz. Les superficies cultivees en riz ont augment6 pendant les cinq dernieres ann6es, passant de 26000
hectares a environ 60,000 hectares. La production du riz est passee de 55,000 tonnes a 120,000 tonnes.
Grace a l'introduction de varietes ameliorees, le rendement du riz pluvial est passe de 800 kg/ha a environ
2000 kg/ha. Dans le cas du riz de bas fonds, les accroissements de rendements sont faibles. II serait
possible de doubler la production. Environs six vari6tes am6lior6es de riz d'origine IRRI, WARDA, et
IRAT ont ete introduites dans la r6gion Ouest.



65
Autres cereales. Le mais, le sorgho et le mil sont importants pour la securit6 alimentaire. Le Burina Faso
a un avantage comparatif pour ces cultures qu'occupent plus de 2 millions hectares (approximativement 1
million chacun). Le mais est cultive sur plus de 0.3 million d'hectares. Les rendements de mais sont passes
de 1 tonne/ha a 2 tonnes/ha. II n'y a pas d'augmentation significative des rendements de sorgho et de mil.
L'augmentation des superficies comblees en mais est due A l'introduction de variets ameliorees resistante
A la secheresse. Environ cinq varietes ont ete introduites dans les r6gions de l'ouest et du centre. Le
programme d'am6lioration a ben6ficie pendant longtemps du soutien de USAID/CIMMYT et de UTA.
Environ quatre (4) varietes axneliorees de sorgho et six (6) vari6t6s de mil ayant une tol6rance moderee a la
secheresse au striga, et la rouille ont ete r6cemment introduites.
Les legumineuses. Les legumineuses sont traditionnellement cultiv6es en association avec les cer6ales. Le
programme d'amelioration du programme de nidb6 a bien progress6 et a benefici6 pendant longtemps du
soutien de l'USAID - IITA. Environ six (6) varietes ameliorees de ni6b6 ont ete introduites avec un
rendement potentiel de 1000 kg/ha environ comparativement A la variete locale, dont le rendement est
d'environ 250 kg/ha. La recherche sur le arachide, le s6same et le "voendzou" n'a pas fait beaucoup de
progres. Les deux dernieres annees, des variet6s am6liorees d'arachide et de "voendzou" ont e  identifi6s.
Quelques germplasmes de s6same ont aussi e  introduits.
Coton. Les superficies cotonnieres sont estimes A environ 200,000 ha. Le coton est une important culture
de rent. Sa production a fluctue pendant les dix dernieres ann6es. es evolutions r6centes indiquant une
augmentation de la production. Une bonne equipe pluridisciplinaire travaille avec des vulgarisateurs et des
producteurs avec l'appui de la compagnie cotonniere. Des varietes ameliorees sont regulierement
introduites specialement pour leur rendement eleve et leur tol6rance aux parasites. Environ sept vari6t6s
ameliorees ont etd introduites pendent les cinq dernires ann6es. Ce programme a aussi beneficie d'une
collaboration regionale et du soutien du CIRAD.
Cultures maraicheres. Pendent les cinq demieres ann6es, le programme a mis l'accent sur la tomate,
l'oignions, le haricot vert et la patate douce. Les chercheurs ont collect6 des germplasmes de tomates,
l'oignions, et du haricot vert au niveau de la region et evalues leur possibilites d'adaptation regionale. Des
varidtes rdsistantes aux nematodes et aux maladies vireuses et a rendements ont et6 identifiee.
Ressourcesforestieres. La recherche etait conduite par IRBET maintenant fusionn6 A l'INERA. Les etudes
en agro- foresterie ont mis l'accent sur l'identification de legumineuses a croissance rapide dans diverses
ecologies. En 1966, un projet sur la production de la gomme arabique a ete initie bas6 sur des especes
l'acacias locales.
La gestion des sols et de 1'eau. Un laboratoire bien equipd pour la recherche a ete install6 A Kamboinsd et
Saria avec le soutien de la Communaut6 europeenne, CIRAD, ICRISAT, IFDC et les Pays-Bas. L'INERA
a mis au point plusieurs technologies pour la conservation et la gestion des sols. L'INERA aussi etabli des
cartes de reponses aux engrais de plusieurs cultures sous divers systemes de production. Un systeme
simple que les producteurs peuvent utiliser pour tester le sol a et mis au point. Pour les zones semi-arides
la technique des bultes cloisonn6es a et conque avec USAID - SAFGAD permettons la conservation
effective de l'eau. Cette technique a ete largement adoptee pour cultures de sorgho, mil et mais.
Laboratoires specialises. En plus, des laboratoires spdcialises en cartographie et analyses de sols, les
etudes sur les maladies et les crompignons (??) r6cemment r6alis6es dans les centres de recherche de
Kamboinse sont essentielles pour le developpement de technologies am6lior6es. Ces laboratoires
collaborent avec les laboratoires sp6cialises et peuvent servir l'ensemble de la sous-r6gion.



66
Liaison recherche-utilisateurs de technologies
Le projet a permis la mise en place d'un reseau decentralis6 de recherche et de m6canismes de concertation
(Comit6 technique, Commission de programme) de maniere a permettre A la recherche de se rapprocher
des utilisateurs. A travers les centres regionaux de recherche (CRRA) et le Centre de Recherche Agricole
et de Formation, beaucoup de relations tant formelles que informelles ont et6 ddveloppees avec les
utilisateurs des produits de recherche et les differents partenaires.
Avec les services publiques de vulgarisation, I'amn6lioration des relations s'est traduite par la r6gularit6 et
la qualite des ateliers mensuels de revue de technologies (AMRT) avec les vulgarisateurs et les
agriculteurs. Le nombre de rencontres est pass6 de un a quatre de 1988 A 1996.
Le CRRA en tant que structure r6gionale de recherche a permis aux chercheurs de developper des
recherches prenant en compte les preoccupations de la region. Ce type de programmation et de
developpement participatif a surtout ete d6veloppe a partir de 1993 avec la mise en place des equipes
regionales de recherche au niveau des CRRA de l'Est et du Sahel.
Depuis la mise en oeuvre du projet, beaucoup de protocoles et de conventions ont ete inities dans plusieurs
domaines: (a) Recherche Collaborative dans le cadre de reseaux , (b) Recherche-Accompagnement en
appui A des projets et programmes de d6veloppement , (c) Recherche-Adaptative ou Valorisation de
Resultats de recherche avec des Organisations paysannes ou des ONG (FUGN, Diocese de Diebougou). Le
CRAF avec ses laboratoires a apporte un soutien appreciable A la formation des chercheurs et/ou
techniciens de l'Universite de Ouagadougou, des ONG et structures de ddveloppement et surtout d'autres
pays (africains et europeens).
E.    Resume des recommandations pour la prochaine phase
Le renforcement des moyen humains: les techniciens. L'Institut n'a pas recrute les 49 techniciens qu'il
6tait prevu de recruter. Du fait de l'augmnentation du nombre de chercheurs, le ratio chercheur/technicien
s'est nettement deteriore, de 0.83 a 0.41, alors qu'il est g6n6ralement admis qu'un chercheur doit pouvoir
compter sur au moins un technicien pour etre efficient. La direction de l'INERA a reconnu le probleme et
a demande a ce que dans le cadre de la deuxieme phase, une quarantaine de techniciens soient recrut6s
immediatement sur cr6dit IDA. Ces nouveaux recrutements seront progressivement pris en charge sur le
budget du CNRST au cours de la deuxieme phase.
La planification. On peut seulement regretter que, au moment de la consolidation des programmes en un
plan strat6gique, les gestionnaires de la recherche n'aient pas proced6 aux indispensables arbitrages entre
programmes, ni au re6quilibrage des ressources entre ceux-ci, reequilibrages rendus necessaires par
l'evolution du contexte socio-economique du Burkina et les disparites de moyens humains d'un
programme a l'autre. Les objectifs du plan strategique devraient etre dimensionn6s par rapport a la
contribution probable de l'Etat au terme du financement de la Banque mondiale.
Le support scientifique apporte par la direction. La direction n'a pas toujours apporte aux programmes le
soutien scientifique n6cessaire, ni pour la programmation, ni pour le suivi-evaluation des resultats de
recherche, pratiquement inexistant. Les raisons tiennent d'abord au fait qu'il n'y a pas eu veritablement de
direction scientifique, les fonctions de celle-ci etant reparties entre trois divisions: programmes; 6tudes et
planification; et formation et information. De plus, les fonctions de ces directions ne sont pas clairement



67
definies. I1 n'y a pas de manuel d'organisation interne de l'Institut precisant les termes de reference de
chacun des chefs de division vis A vis les programmes. Surtout le chef de la division des programmes n'a
pratiquement aucune autorit6 sur les chefs de programmes. Les chefs de programme, etant nommds par
RAABO du MESSRS sont de facto hierarchiquement superieurs aux chefs de division, nommes eux, sur
simple decision du DG du CNRST. Ces problemes organisationnels tiennent au fait que l'Institut s'est
constitu6 autour de programmes qui existaient dejA.
La direction de l'INERA en est consciente et a decide de creer une veritable fonction de directeur
scientifique, le poste de directeur adjoint charge des programmes, avec des lignes hierarchiques et des
termes de reference clairs vis A vis des programmes. Celui-ci coiffera le service de l'information et de la
formation et le service des etudes et planification. Les attributions du Directeur adjoint en ce qui concerne
la programmation et le suivi-evaluation des activites de recherche seront precis6es dans un manuel
d'organisation interne.
L'organisation de la recherche. La fonction de ces 6quipes par rapport aux programmes produits n'a e
pas suffisamment definie. Recemment, la tache a ete clarifiee pour l'avenir: ces 6quipes seront des equipes
systeme de production et gestion des ressources naturelles. Mais reste pos6e la question des relations avec
les programmes produits nationaux, en particulier, pour la programmation des activit6s. Egalement, on
doit signaler que les equipes manque de chercheurs, souvent encore jeunes et inexperiment6s. Elles n'ont
pas suffisamment beneficie de 1'encadrement des chercheurs seniors des programmes produits. En fin de
projet, 1'effort de recherche reste encore beaucoup trop concentr6 sur Farako-Ba et surtout sur Kamboinse,
avec plus de la moitie des chercheurs de l'Institut, meme si cette concentration peut en partie se justifier
par le fait que Kamboins6 est 6galement un centre de formation.
Le statut du personnel chercheur.  LA aussi, le rapport d'evaluation ne mentionnait pas d'objectif
specifique dans ce domaine. La revue A mi-parcours en a introduit. Le personnel scientifique est regi par
le systeme CAMES, dont les criteres de promotion s'appliquent aux enseignants et enseignants-chercheurs,
mais peu adapte pour des chercheurs oeuvrant pour le developpement. Depuis un an, le Burkina Faso a
introduit une requ8te aupres du CAMES pour adapter les criteres aux specificites d'une recherche au
service du d6veloppement et a fait campagne aupres des pays de la sous-region pour les amener a
s'interesser A un systeme CAMES reforme. Le processus est en cours. Si la requ8te du Burkina est
acceptee, ce sera un progres considerable pour l'avenir de la recherche, non seulement pour le Burkina
Faso, mais pour l'ensemble des pays francophones.
xx.    Gestion des stations. La structure organisationnelle des centres combine deux fonctions, celle de
gestion et celle de recherche. Les responsables choisis parmi les chercheurs non pas ete formes et ont
maintenu leurs activites de chercheurs. La gestion des stations en a souffert: le gestionnaire donnant
souvent pr6ference A certains programmes, accordant une attention insuffisante aux services de soutien,
et pratiquement aucune attention a l'entretien des infrastructures. En 19965/96 l'INERA a adopte une
nouvelle strategie pour la gestion et une structure organisationnelle plus efficace. Les gestionnaires de
station seront desormais responsables pour toutes les activites de gestion sur la station, avec un budget
suffisant pour la maintenance et les service de soutien. La Banque mondiale a donne son non-objection
pour la formation des gestionnaires en gestion de station sue les fond du PRSAP.
Quelques 6quipement agricoles ont et6 acquis. II faut definir les besoins complementaires pour satisfaire
les besoins des programmes et des stations. Le manuel de procedures prevues dans le rapport d'evaluation
du projet n'a pas ete elabore. Finalement, l'INERA doit actualiser ses inventaires.
xx.    Liaisons. Malgre le desir de promouvoir une recherche concertee au benefice des utilisateurs, il
faut noter que le fonctionnement de certains mecanismes de concertation n'a pas e  A la hauteur des



68
attentes. Deux principales insuffisances ont marque le fonctionnement de ces m6canismes: (a) la faible
representation et representativite des vulgarisateurs et des producteurs, de meme que la non clarification
de leur r6le au sein de ces mecanismes, (b) I'absence de continuite et egalement de mecanismes de suivi
des decisions qui sont issus de ces instances de concertation. Cette situation n'a pas permis a la recherche
de prendre suffisamment en compte les "inputs" de ces utilisateurs et partenaires. II a egalement e  note
l'execution peu satisfaisante de certains contrats due A la non intdgration des actions dans les programmes
reguliers, l'implication limitee de chercheurs experimentes.  II apparait necessaire d'assurer une
amelioration du fonctionnement des mecanismes de concertation et de travail concerte par: (a) une
clarification des r6les des partenaires au sein des instances, (b) une initiation des acteurs au travail concerte
(a partir de la base) depuis le diagnostic, la programmation jusqu'a l'evaluation des r6sultats.
Dans le cadre du partenariat, la recherche devrait mieux s'organiser A l'avenir pour une integration des
travaux contractuels dans les programmes reguliers de recherche, et assurer leur execution; cela permettra
d'eviter les insuffisances actuelles constatees au niveau de certaines conventions comme le PNGT qui sont
de nature A discrediter l'institution.
Suivi-evaluation . En matiere de suivi-6valuation, des insuffisances subsistent a deux niveaux: (a)
I'absence de mecanismes de suivi-evaluation allant du niveau central au niveau decentralise, (b)
l'insuffisance de suivi-dvaluation des activites de formation et d'adaptation des technologies en relation
avec les partenaires. En matiere de suivi-evaluation, des efforts devraient etre faits pour la mise en oeuvre
effective des mecanismes prevus dans le cadre du PRA II.
Fait a Ouagadougou; le 3 fevrier, 1997
Pour la mission:
Turto Turtiainen
Charge d'operations Senior; Charge du Projet (PRA)
Reviewed by and cc: Mr. Celestin Bado, AFMBU
Distribution
Son Excellence, Monsieur le Ministre de l'Enseignement Secondaire, Superieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique
Le Directeur General de CNRST
Le Directeur de INERA
copie: Mesdames/Messieurs: Michailof, Boehmer, Perrot (AFC10), Chausse, Schreiber, Collion, Prevoo
(AFTA3), Shiv Singh (AFTA2), Nebie (AFMBU), Desclaux (LOAAF), Dubois (AFLEG)



69
ANNEX 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Comments by the Borrower on the ICR
The main comments by INERA, the implementation agency of the Agricultural
Research Project, are presented below.'
Resume de lI'valuation; les resultats des travaux de recherche (et paragraphe 48 de la
Partie I du Rapport):
"Concernant le coton, I'amelioration des resultats est tres remarquable pour la
maitrise des techniques culturales au niveau des exploitations a base de coton et
pour la qualite et le rendement de la fibre. Pendant ces dix dernieres annees, la
succession des nouvelles varietes issues de l'experimentation cotonniere montre
une amelioration progressive du taux d'egrenage qui est passe de 27,5 a 42,5%,
soit 5 points d'indice. Hors un gain d'un point indiciaire equivalent a un gain de 2
a 3 milliards de francs a la societe cotonniere pour une meme quantite de
production."
Partie I du Raport: L'Emprunteur n'est pas d'accord avec les observations suivantes de
l'IDA au point 7:
"En revanche, les rapports entre la recherche agricole, les services de vulgarisation
et les nombreux utilisateurs potentiels des resultats des travaux de recherche ne se
sont guere ameliores."
L'INERA prefererait que ceci soit dit ainsi:
"Les rapports entre la recherche agricole, les services de vulgarisation et les
nombreux utilisateurs potentiels des resultats des travaux de recherche se sont
ameliores vers la fin du projet. Les mecanismes definis dans le cadre du PDSA
Not including correction of errors in typing, years, and translation which have been incorporated in
IDA's report before finalizing it.



70
devront permettre une plus grande amelioration des rapports entre ces differents
partenaires."
L'INERA souhaiterait change la phrase suivante au point 12:
"le processus de planification a toutefois souffert parce que l'ordre des priorites des
programmes n'a pas et etabli au niveau national", par
"L'allocation des ressources (humaines) n'a pas tenu compte de l'ordre des priorites
etablies au niveau des programmes de recherche"
Sur l'appui scientifique de l'INERA. L'Emprunteur n'est pas d'accord avec le point de vue
de l'IDA (point 14). L'INERA prefererait dire:
"L'appui scientifique apporte par la Direction dans les domaines de la
programmation, du suivi et de l'evaluation demeure limite. Cette insuffisance
s'explique par I'absence de procedures institutionnelles de programmation, de suivi
evaluation, une mauvaise repartition des pouvoirs entre la Division des
Programmes et les Chefs de Programme et surtout par la mise en place tardive de
certaines Divisions. En effet, l'appui scientifique a e  assure par la seule Division
des programmes avec deux personnes pendant la premiere periode du projet.
Ensuite la Division Formation, Communication et Documentation a ete mise en
oeuvre et deux ans apres suivi de la mise en place de la Division Etude et
Planification."
Sur la passastion des marches et decaissements (points 33). L'Emprunteur voudrait
souligner ce qui suit:
"La reforme des procedures de passation des marches publics a decentralise le
centre d'evaluation et de depouillement des offres afin d'alleger lesdites procedures.
Le CNRST, en tant qu'EPA, organise, supervise et preside le Comite interne
d'Attribution des Marches (CIAM). Le Proces Verbal de depouillement est soumis
au president du Conseil d'Administration des Marches pour tout montant inferieur A
15.000.000 F.CFA et au Ministre des Finances pour tout montant superieur A
15.000.000 F.CFA. Au prealable, tout marche sur I'audit est soumis A l'avis de la
Banque Mondiale avant qu'une decision ne soit prise par le Ministre des Finances.
Par consequent, il faut supprimer la dernire phrase du paragraphe du point 33."
Sur la durabilite (point 36), l'Emprunteur constate que:
"Le rapport met des preoccupations inquietantes quant a la durabilite des
infrastructures. sur la base d'une appreciation tres negative de la qualite des travaux
effectues.



71
Nous ne sommes pas d'accord avec ces preoccupations. Nous avons reconnu avec
la Mission, les insuffisances constatees au niveau de certaines realisations qui
n'avaient pas fait l'objet d'une reception definitive. I1 a ete retenu que ces lacunes
devaient &re remediees par les entreprises concern6es avant le paiement int6gral
des marches ou la liberation des cautions. Cette procedure est actuellement en
cours. Par ailleurs, pour eviter ces lacune dans les infrastructures a realiser,
1'INERA a propose un plan strategique de developpement des infrastructures dans
le cas du PDSA qui a e  approuve par la Banque Mondiale. Du reste, nous
demandons que cette partie sur les infrastructures prennent en compte le rapport de
la partie nationale."
L'Emprunteur n'est pas d'accord avec l'observation suivante de l'IDA au paragraphe 42:
"Le CNRST et 1'INERA n'ont pas non plus ete en mesure de prendre les decisions
necessaires au sujet de la reaffectation des ressources entres les differents
programmes et de l'ampleur globale du systeme de recherche agricole (INERA et
IRSAT), tant sur le plan du personnel que sur le plan des infrastructures."
Quant a l'appui technique (paragraphe 56), l'emprunteur constate que:
"Ce paragraphe doit tenir compte de l'esprit de la phase II du projet qui doit
privilegier l'expertise locale et sous regionale avant de recourir a l'expertise
exterieure."



IMAGING
Report No.:         16750
Type:     ICR



