Document ot
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C-R  9¶Xm sot
Report No. 6683-BUR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
-XRKINA PASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
March 15, 1988
Agriculture Division
Country Department V
Africa Region
Thi docuent has a reticted dibui  and may be ued by  c   only i Mhe perfomance of
thir offial du    Its contents may not ohwise be dicosed wWmn Wodd Bank. auiibon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA Franc (CFAF)
USS - CFAF 300 (as of July 1987)
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICLAL UE ONLY
ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BUMASOL   Bureau National des Sole (National Soil Survey Institute)
CCIARS    Comite Consultatif Interafricain do la Recherche Scientifique
(Interafrican Consultative Comunittee for Scientific Research)
CERCI     Centre d'Experimentation du Riz ot des Cultures Irriguees
(Center for Experimentation on Rice and Irrigated Crops)
CG        Conseil de Gestion (Management Council)
COIAR     Groupe Consultatif pour la Recherche Agricole Internationale
(Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research)
CI.'H     Centre Inter-etats d'Etudes Hydrauliques
(West-african Center for Hydraulic Studies)
CILSS     Comite Inter-etats pour la Lutte contre la Secheresse dans l1
Sahel (Permanent Committee on Drought Control in the Sahel)
CThMYT    Centre International pour l'Amelioration du Kais et du Ble
(International Center for the Improvement of Maize and Wheat)
CIRAD     Centre de Coop;ration International, en Recherche Agronomique
poutr le Developpement (Center for International Cooperation on
Agricultural Research for Development)
COSCINA   Comite Scientifique National (National Scientifique Committee)
CNCA      Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (National Agricultural Credit
Fund)
CNRST     Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique et Technologique
(National Center for Scientific and Technological Research)
CRAF      Centre de Recherches Agricoles et de Formation (Agricultural
Research and Training Center)
CRRA      Centre Regional de Recherches Agricoles (Regional Center for
Agricultural Research)
CRTA      Centre de  Recherche sur  les Trypanosomes  Animales (Center  for
Research on Animal Trypanosomes)
CSPPA     Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix des Produits Agricoles
(National Price Stabilization Fund for Agricultural Products)
CTFT      Centre Technique Forestier Tropical
(Technical Center for Tropical Forestry)
DUA       Diplome d'Etudes Approfondies (Extended Stadies Diploma)
DSA       Direction des  Services Agricoles (Directcrate  of Agricultural
Services)
DSEIA     Direction des Services de l'Elevage et des Industries Animales
(Directorate of Livestock Services)
ESFIMA    Recherche sur l'Eau, le Sol, la Fertilisation, l'Irrigation et le
Machinisme Agricole (Research Program on Soil, Water,
Fertilization, Irrigation and Mechanization)
FAC       Ponds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Aid and Cooperation Fund)
PAO       Organisation pour l'Alimentation et l'Agriculture
(Food and Agriculture Organization)
FIDA      Ponds International pour le Developpement Agricole (International
Fund for Agricultural Development)
FSU       Farming Systems Unit (SAFPGRAD)
IBE       Institut Burkinabe de l'Energie (Burkinabe Institute for Energy)
IBRAZ     Institut Burkinabe de Recherches Agronomiques et Zootechniques
This document has a stricted dibution and may be ued by rwipientB only in the pefonue
of their offci dutieL Its contets may not otherwie be discled wthout Wodd Dank authorattb.



(prior to that IVRMZ, now INERA) (Burkinabe Institute for
Agronomic and Animal Production Research)
ICRISAT   Inst4tut International de Recherches sur les Cultures des Regions
Tropicales Semi-Ardes (International Crops Research Institute
for of the SadI-Arid Tropics)
IDR       Institut du Developpement Rural (Institute for Rural Development)
or: Ingenieur du Developpemont Rural (Rural Development Engineer)
IFAD      sees FIDA
IITA      Institut International de l'Agriculture Tropicale  (International
Institute for Tropical Agriculture)
ILCA      Centre International  pour  l'Elevage en Afrique  (International
Livestock Center for Africa)
INERA     Institut d'Etudes et do Recherches Agricoles
(Agricultural Research Institute)
INSAH     Institut du Sahel (Sahel Institute)
IRAT      Institut do Recherches  Agronomiques Tropicales  et des  Cultures
Vivrieres   (Tropical  Agricultural   and   Fooderops   Research
Institute)
MUJET     Institut de Recherche on Biologie et Ecologie Tropicale
(Research Institute for Tropical Biology and Ecology)
uSN       Institut de Recherche pour  lee Substances Naturelles  (Institute
for Research on Natural Substances)
IRS8S     Institut do Recherche en Sciences Sociales et Humaines (Research
Institute for Social Sciences)
ISNAR     Service International pour la Recherche Agronomique Nationale
(International Service for National Agricultural Research)
ISP       Institut Superieur Polytechnique (Polytechnical Institute of  the
University of Ouagadougou) now: IDR
ITDR      Ingonieur des Techniques du D;ve" pement Rural
(Engineer of Rural Development Tecainiques)
IVRAZ     Institut Voltalque de Recherches Agronomiques et Zootechniques
(subsequently and successively known as IBRAZ and now INERA)
MAE       Ministere  de  l'Agriculture   et  de   l'Elevage  (Ministry   of
Agriculture and Livestock)
ME        Minist;re de I'Equipement (Ministry of Equipment)
MHSRS     NinistZre de l'Enseignement Superieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique (Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research)
MET       Ministere  de  l'Environnement  et   du  Tourisme  (Ministry   of
Environment and Tourism)
OAU       Organisation  de  l'Unite Africaine  (Organization  for African
Unity)
OFNACER   Office National des Cer4ales (National Grain Marketing Agency)
ONERA     Office National do l9Exploitation des Ressources Animales
(National Agency for the Expl2itation of Animal Resources)
ORD       Organisme  Rigional  de Daveloppement   (Regional   Development
Authority)
ORSTOM    Office de Recherche Scientifique et Technique d'Outre-Mer
(Office of Overseas Scientific and Technical Research)
PAPEH     Point d'Appui de Prewvulgarisation et d'Experimentation
Multilocale (Mini-Station for Pro-Extension Experimentation)



PNUg      Programme des Nations Unies pour l'Environnument (United  Nations
Environmental Program)
PNUD      Programso des Nations Unies pour le Developpement (United Nations
Development Program)
PPF       Project Preparation  Facility  (Mecanisme de  Financement  de  la
Preparation des Projets)
RSP       Programme de Recherche sur lee Systme6s de Production
(Research Program on Farming Systems)
SAPOURD   Recherche et D4veloppement sur les Cireales en Zone Aride
(Seai-Arid Food Grains Research and Development)
SOFITEX Soci;to des Fibres et des Textiles (Fibers and Textiles Company)
SOFVA     Soci4te de Financement et de Vulgarisation de l'Arachide
(Society for Groundnut Financing and Extension)
STIC      Camit; Scientifique, Technique et de Recherches; de 1'QAU
(Scientific, Technical and Research Commission; of OAU)
UDOCAN    Union Burkinabo det Cooperatives Maralch;res
(Burkinabe Market Gardening Cooperative Union)
UNDP      Programme des Nations Unies pour le Daveloppement
(United Nations Development Program)
unso      Bureau des Nations Unies pour le Sahel
(United Nations Sahelian Office)
USAID     Agence des Etats Unis pour le Doveloppement International
(United States Agency for International Deveiopment)



BURX1NA WASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Staff Auiraisal Report
TABLE OF CONTtNTS                    PLae No
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
pOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE                         iii
CREDILT AND PROJECT SUHIARY                                     vi
I.*  BACKGROUND                                                       1
A.  Introduction                                                 1
B.  The Agricultural Sector                                      2
C.  Agricultural Institutions and Services                       5
D.  Sector Issues and Bank Strategy                              7
I-I. AGRICULTURAL. LIVESTOCK AND FOREEg Y RESEN RC                   8
A.  Background                                                   8
5.  The Organization of Agricultural Research                   9
C.  Resoarch Priorities and Programs                            10
D.  Research Facilities                                         13
S.  Staffing and Technical Assistance                           14
F.  Res.arch-ExtansLon Linkages                                16
G.  Research Funding                                            16
H.  Accounting and Financial Management                         17
III. TH  PROJECT                                                    18
A.  Objectives and Justification                                18
B.  Suwary Description                                         19
C.   Detailed Features                                         19
(M)   Organizational Strengthening                        19
(ii)  Support to Research Programs                        20
(Uii) Training and Techaical Assistance                   24
(lv)  Civil Works, Vehicles, Equipment and Stppliea       26
D.   Project Costs and Fineacing                               29
3.  Procurement                                                31
F.   Disbursements                                             34
0.  Environmental Impact                                       35
This report is basod  on tha findings of an appraisal mission in  December
1986, composed of Mr. D. H. van dst Sluljs (mission leader), eadames N.
Iwas. and T. Genta Fons (IDA), and Messrs. J. M. Dames (FAC); H. van Keulen
(Dutch Technical  Cooperation); and  J.  Burfield and   B.  Esteulle
(consultants).



IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                        35
A.  Organization and Manage_ent                              35
B.   Project Coordination                                    38
C.  Implementation Schedule                                  38
D.   Financial Control, Audit and Reporting                  39
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS                                           40
A.   General                                                 40
B.   Main Benefits                                           41
C.   Project Risks                                           41
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                        42
1-1 The Location of INEMRA and IRBET within the Ministry of
Higher Education and Scientific Research (MESRS)
1-2 Organisational Structure of INERA
1-3 Organizational Structure of IRBET
2         INERA Professional Staff by Research Program
Tables 1-8 Burkiasb; staff
Table  9  s Expatristo staff
3         IRBET Professional Staff by Program
4         INERA - Funding by Source of Funds (1980-1985)
5         Capital and Recurrent Expenditures for Agricultural Research
(INERA) - 1986
6         Capital and Recurrent Expenditures for Forestry  Reasarch
(IMSET) - 1986
7         Project Costs by Component by Year
8         Project Costu by Program by Year
9         Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
Table Is Costs by Year
Table 2: As percentage of Base Costs
10        Implementation Schedule Civil Works and Procurement
11         Technical Assistance and Staff Projections
Table 1: Technical Assistance
Table 2: INERA Staff Projections- Researchers
Ta6le 3:  INERA Staff Projections- Research Field
Assistants
Table 4:  Phasing of Incremental Local Higher Level
Staff
12         Government Cash flow
13         Disbursement Schedule
14         Terms of Reference for Key Technical Assistance Staff
IBID 20120     Burkina Faso. National Agricultura. Research Project
Research Station Network.



-iii..
DOCUMEMNS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   3ack_round and Pregaration Documents
1. Banque Mondiale/FAO/ISNAR (1983) - La Recherche
Agronomique et Zootechnique Haute Volta.
Raport do la mission.  Mars 1983.                         D01285
2. Donkoungou. Edouard G. (1984) - Assessment of
Agricultural Research Resources in the Sahel.
Volume II2t National Report: Upper Volta.
CILSS|INSAH - Devres, Inc. August 1984.                   D01286
3. CILSSIINSAH - CDA/Devrea (1985) - Bilan des
Ressources de la Recherche Agricole dans les
Pays du Sahel. Compte-rendu de la reunion tenue
a Ouagadougou du 1 au 4 Octobre 1984.  Mal 1985.          D01287
4. MBA, MESRS and UNDP/FAO (1985). Rapport du 8;mInaire
National sur la Liaison Recherche-Vulgarisation.
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, 21-31 Janvier 1985.            D01288
5. CNRSTIINERA (no date), Lignes Directrices
d'Organisation et d'Administration des Recherches
Agricoles. (approximate date: April 1986).                D01289
6. CNRSTIINERA (1986). Le Projet Recherches Agricoles
(Rapport Prelimnaire; Annexe A: Details des Coats
financiers du Projet; Annex. Bs Collection de
Donnees d base). Aoat 1986.                               D01290
B.  Working Papers (prepared by December 1986
joint Appraisal Mission)
B.1  Organisational Structure of INERA, by H. van Keulen
(Dutch Development Cooperation)                           D02679
3.2  Staff Training Requirements, by H. van Keulen
(Dutch Development Cooperation)                           D02680
B.3 Programmes de Recherche, by
J. M. Dunmas (French Development Cooperation)             D02681
B.4  Liaison Recherche-Vulgarisation, by
B. Esteulle (IBRD/IDA, Ouagadougou Office)                D02682
B.5  Description des Travaux de Genie Civil et
Indications a l'Intention de l'Architecte, by
J. Burfield (Consultant)                                  D02683



-$v-
Code
C.   Miseellaneous
C.1 Compte Rendu de l'Atelier sur uLes Politiques
et StratSgies do Renforcement de la Recherche
Agronomique et Zootechnique en Haute Volta'.
Ouagadougou 3 au 7 AvrLl, 1984.                           D01291
C.2 Compto Rendu du S6mdnaire National sur
'La Recherche Agronomique aU Service des
Agriculteurs". Ouagadougou, 11-15 Fevrier 1985.           D01292
C.3 Recherches Forestiares. Rapport Annuel
d'activitia 1985.  IRBET/CTFT. October 1986.              D01293
C.4 Annual Report 1984-85 of SAFGRAD, JP 31.
Research and Development into Food Grains for
Semi-Arid Regions of Agrica. OAU/STRC.                    D01294
C.5 Annual Report 1984. Joint Project 31 SAFGRAD/
IITA.                                                     D01295
C.6  Final Report, Phase I. Joint Prjo.ct 31 SUPYGRADI
IITA.  May 31, 1986.                                      D01296
C.7 Assistance au Centre d'ExpfrImPtation du Ria et.
des Cultures Irriguies (CERCI) Mission Tripartite
d'Evaluation.  Ouagadougou, December 1985.                D01297
C.8 Recuell do Fiches Techniques des Cultures
Mara-ch;res en Zone Soudano-Sahilienne. INERA.
Juin 1986.                                                D01298
C.9  Universite de Ouagadougou. Institut du
Developpement Rural (euISP) Annie Universitaire
1985-1986.                                                D01299
C.10 R"gl.mentation dos Marches Administratifa.
Ninist;re des Finances. Decret No. 70-202
PRES/MFC.                                                 D01300
D.   Cost Tables (July 1987)                                        D01307
D.1 Detailed Cost Tables:
Table 101 - INERA Siage
Table 102 - Farako-Ba
Table 103 - Saria
Table 104 - X.mboins
Table 105 - Di
Table 106 - Rouuar
Table 107 - Katchari
Table 108 - IRBT



D.2 Br.akdowF of Sumnary Accowits (US$103)
D.3 Sumary Accounts by Year
D.4 Breakdown of Suimmary Accounts (ClAP 103)
D.5  Project Components by Year
(Totals, including Contingencles)
0.6 Sumuary Account by Project Component



-vi-
BURKINA PASO
9GRICULTURAL RESEARC   PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SMUHARY
Borrowters      urkina Paso
BeneficiaryS   Minlst;re de lEnseignemont Sup$rieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique (M8RSS)
kmmont:        SDR 14.1 mlllion (US$17.9 million equivalent)
Tenmst         Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
On-lendin     Proceeds of the Credit would be passed oa by Governmont in
T r9t         grant form to INERA.
Prolect        The project  represents  a  first  five-year  tranche  of  a
DescrIutionh   long-term national program.  The main objectives of the
project would  be   to  strengthen  national   agricultural
research planning and £mplementation capacity while onsuring
that research is responsive to farmers' needs and takes into
account  research  conducted  elsewhere.   Linkages  between
research and  extonsion would also  be  strengthened.   The
project would seek to achieve those objectives by funding
UVrovements in  research  facilLties  at  INERA  and  IRUT
headquarters and In the field; technlcal assistance and
training; equlpment, vehicles and operating costs assoclated
with the Implementation of agreed priorLty research programs
as well as such costs incurred by research personnel in the
periodic training of extension subject matter specialists.
Pro ect        The project would contribute to the development of INERA and
Bonefits:      IRUT's research management capacity.  Joint planning and
coordination of the national research programs with those of
international research institutions, and Improved linkages
between research and extension are expected to lead to more
efficient use of scarce human and financial resources and
thereby increase the Impact of other investments in the
agriculture and rural sectors. The project is also designed
to   address   the   increasingly   serious   problems    of
environmental degradation and decreasing productivity.
Proloct RLiks: A potential risk would reside in the adequacy of tho
linkages between research and extension and the farmers.
However, good working relationships already exibt between
the two branches of Government. The participatLon of



-vii-
researchers  In  the  training   of  extension  staff,   and
participation  of  the  latter  In  research  planning,   as
foreseen under the project, would further miniaise the risk.
The Agricultural Support Services (Extension) Project now
under preparation, In the footsteps of a Pilot Extension
operation over the past two years, will further Improve the
linkages with the farmers, as will the greater emphasis on
applied, farming systems resear¢h under the present project.
Other risks related to obtilning adequate staff and funds
are considered relatively small where the Government In
recent years has shown strong comuitment to agricultural
research. Also, the project's technical assistance and
training components would help minimise those risks, and
project design has aimed at minimizing the incremental
recurrent cost Implications for the Government.



-viii.
Estimatgd Costs
E8TrMATED PROJECT COSTS
Local     Foreign   Total
INERA                 ~_            - US$ million   "Iftme- .
INERA Badquarters         1.9         4.8       6.7
Farako-Ba                 1.3         0.8       2.1
SariU                     0.9         0.4       1.3
KAmboinso                 0.6         0.4       1.0
Di                        1.1         0.6       1.7
Kouaro                    0.8         0.4       1.2
Katcharl                  0.6         0.4       1.0
Subtotal INERA       7.2         7.8      15.0
II-ST                         0.5         0.7       1.2
Total Base Cost           7.7         8.5      16.2
of which:
Civil Works            2.2         0.8       3.0
Vehicles               0.2         1.2       1.4
Equipment              0.2         0.8       1.0
Furniture              0.06        0.08      0.1
Technical Assistance  0.7          2.3       3.0
Training               0.01        1.1       1.1
PpI                    0.3         1.2       1.5
Local Salaries/
Operating Costs        4.0         1.2       5.2
Physical Contingencies   0.2          0.2       0.4
Price Contingencies       1.9         0.3       2.2
Total Project Costs 9.8          9.0      18.8
Fin"acing Plan               Local    Foreism      Total
Governmont              0.9                    0.9
IDA                     8.9         9.0       17.9
9-  9.0
Estimated Disbursements (US$million)
PYN             P.               fi   Efl    PY  "W FY    FY       Y6    FYo7
Annual       0      4.5      2.9     2.6      S.0      2.2     1.4      9.7     0.4     0.2
CumulatIve    9     4.5      7.4     10.0    18.0    15.2    16.6    17.8    17.7    17.9
Economic Rate of Returt n.a.
Maos      IBRD 20120



EURKIA PASO
AGRICMTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BRCKGOROUND
A.   Introduction
1.1       With a per capita GNP  of $140 in 1985  and a 1985 population  of
7.9 million, Burkina Faso is one of the poorest countries In the world  and
one of the most densely populated "in Africa": According to the latest
available census data (December 1985),  the population growth rate is  2.6X
per annum. The country's soils are generally poor and rainfall is scarce
and highly variable, among regions as well as from one year to the next.
The lack of a permanent water flow in the country's river system severely
limits  the  potential  for   irrigation  and hydroelectric  power.    The
landlocked position and poor road network further constrain development
potential in  all sectors.   Of  the approximately  60 ethnic  groups,  the
sedentary Mossi make up 50X; the pastoral and nomadic Peuhl, the second
largest group, account for 10X.
1.2       Improved performance in the  agricultural sector will be  crucial
for future growth, since an estimated 80-902 of the population depends for
its livelihood on this sector. The concentration of over half of the
population on the central plateau has resulted in the almost total
disappearance of woodlands to meet fuelrood demands, excessive shortening
of fallow periods, uncontrolled grazing and the abandonment of traditional
shifting  cultivation.    These  factors   have  combined   to  do   nearly
irreversible damage to the carrying capacity of parts of the central
plateau. This impoverishment has provoked spontaneous migration Into
southern   and  western   areas    recently   freed   of    onchocerciasis
(riverbliadness). The newly settled areas are in turn also being degraded
by improper cropping practices.   To be able  to arrest this  enviroanmtal
degradation and eventually boost productivity, more and better-focussed
research is needed on the technical and economic constraints to the
intensification  and   integration  of  crop/forest/llvestock   production
systems.
1.3       To make agricultural  and livestock research more responsive  to
farmers' needs the Government of Burkina by decree of March 16, 1981
created a national research institution called IVRA (TInstitut Voltalque de
Recherche Agronomique et Zootechnique). In 1983, this entity was renamed
IBRAZ (Institut BurkinabO de Recherche Agronomique et Zootechnique), and
since 1985 it has been called INERA (Institut d'Etudes et de Recherches
Agricoles). INERA is one of the specialized inastitutes of the Centre
National de la Recherche Scientifique et Technologique (CNRST) which is an
'Ztablissement public de l'Etat & caractere administratif (EPA) under the
supervision or 'tutelle' of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research  (Minist&re  de   l'Education  Sup6rieure  et   de  la   lecherche
Scientifique (MSSRs)) (para. 1.17).   IERA's responsibilities Include  the



-2-
planning, Implementation and coordination of ongoing national agricultural
research programs   and   activities  (including   livestock),   and  the
coordination of research programs undertaken or funded by international
institutions and  donors.   Forestry  and environmental  research  are  the
responsibility of IRBET (Institut de Recherche en Biologie et Ecologie
Tropicale), which was created in 1985.
1.4       In July 1982,  the Burkinabe Government Invited  FA0, the World
Bank, and the International Service for National Agricultural Research
(ISNAR) to help formulate a long term agricultural research program. After
separate exploratory missions (mid-1981 by FAO0 January 1982 by ISNAR and
the Bank), a joint FAO/ISNAR/Bank mission drew up an Inventory of ongoing
research programs, and presented its recomendations to Government in March
1983. The report, titled "Agriculture and Livestock Research", detailed
appropriate institutional infrastructures and outlined a plan for a
longterm research program,  taking into consideration  the country's  needs
and resources, and provided a general framework for external technical and
financial assistance.
1.5       The report concluded that In the short and medium term,  research
and development activities should be aimed at eliminating constraints now
hampering agricultural productivity, economic development and existing
production  systems.  In  addition  to  these  short-term  objectives   of
increasing production of food and export crops, the long torm plan for the
agricultural sector called for the stabilization of farming systems and the
protection of the environment, including soil, water, forestry, and grasing
resources. The report recomtended that IBRAZ establish a programming and
coordination unit responsible for formulating a national research program
in support of Government's agricultural policy. To help the country act
upon these recommendations, IDA In May 1982 provided a first tranche
(US$275,000) of a US$0.5 million Project Preparation Facility (PPF).  This
financed a research adviser and seminars to elaborate and discuss a
longterm research program. During a February 1985 seminar at Ouagadougou
attended by  national  and  international  research   staff  and   donors
representatives, research priorities and ways to strengthen the national
research capacity were agreed upon in principle. A second PPF tranche of
US$225,000 was provided in 1985 to prepare a national agricultural research
project for external funding, to start training a nucleus staff, and to
initiate new priority  research activities.   During  the final  stage of
project preparation in mid-1986, it was decided that because of the
importance of trees in the rural economy, a forestry research component
should also be included in the proposed project.
B.  The Agricultural Sector
1.6      Agriculture employs 80-90 2 of the population, and accounts  for
about 402 of GDP and alaost all exports. Of the country's total geographic
area of 27.4 million ha, agricultural land (including forest and grazing
lands) covers about 24 million ha, or nearly 901. Arable land is estimated
at about 9 million ha, of which about 3 million ha is cropped each year;
this translates into about 2 3 inhabitants per cropped hectare.  Population



- 3 -
densities are much higher in the Mossi plateau, however, where half of the
country's population lives.
1.7       Based on climate, soils  and socio-economic factors, the  country
can be divided into five agro-ecological zones (Map No.20120)s the Sahel,
the Central Plcteau, the West, the Southwest and the East. The Sahel, in
the north,  is  the  driest  region. It ha.  a  three-month  rainy  season
(June-September) and receives less than 600 mm of erratic rainfall per
annum. Evapotranspiration is high and differences between day and night
temperaturas are  large.  Livestock  is the main economic  activity.   The
populous Central Plateau, with rainfall ranging from less than 600 mm in
the north to 900 mm in the south (received during a span of less than 6
months) is mainly devoted to cropping. It falls within the Sudano-Sabolian
climatic zone. Due to population pressure and the gradual breakdown of the
traditional system of shifting cultivation, the area is suffering from
severe environmental degradation.   The West  receives from 600 mm in  the
north to over 800 mm in the south and its main economic activity is also
livestock. With stocking rates below those in the Sahel .md Central zones,
the degree of environmental degradation ranges from motirate to severe.
The Southwest, which falls within the Sudano-Guinean clime ic zone, has the
best productive potential of the five regions and, follow ng a successful
camaign to eradicate riverblindness, has become the major receiving area
for immigrants from the Central and Sahel regions. It is the only region
in the country with permanent water courses. Rainfall, distributed over
about 6 months, ranges from 900 to 1200 mm and environmental degradation is
still limited. The East is the least developed, least populous and also
the least degraded part of the country. Rainfall thero ranges from 600 to
900 mm per annum.
1.8       Overall, the  contribution  of the agricultural  sector  to  the
economy has decreased progressively, from 53Z of CDP in 1965 to 45 in
1985. Although nearly 90S of the country's cultivated land is planted to.
sorghum and millet in association with root crops and grain legumes, cereal
production has barely kept pace with population growth. Overall increases
in production have largely been obtained through expansion of surface area.
Maize and rice cultivation are llmLted by the low rainfall and lack of
irrigation potential. Although cotton, grown mostly in the Southwest, is
the major export crop, its aggregate cash value to farmers, except in that
region, is still less than that earned from the marketed share of cereals.
Cereals, therefore, while most important as subsistence food crop, are also
important as cash crop.
1.9       While cotton acreage has continued to expand in the Southwest, it
has regressed elsewhere,  to be  replaced by cereals.   Cotton yields  have
risen markedly since 1968 due to the shift to more fertile areas, the
increased use of fertilizers and insecticides, and improved extension.
Cotton's share in total exports increased from 22 in 1960 to 33S in 1978
and 542 in 1985. During recent years, the industry has been in crisis,
with total output steadily increasing to an estimated 170,000 T of seed
cotton for the 1986187 crop season, a total ginning capacity of only about
115,000 T, and large producer price subsidies paid to shield smallholders



- 4 -
from  the  low world market  prices  of  the  past  few  years.    Recent
improvements in world market prices have brought only partial relief.
1.10      Oil seed crops  include groundnuts,  karite (Butyrospermum),  and
sesame. Groundnuts, the most important of these, are raised throughout the
country and occupy about 140,000 ha, with great annual variations.  Despite
the potential for increased production, groundnuts do not benefit to any
significant extent from production  or marketing support policies.  Karito,
the second most  important agricultural  export  commodity (about  13X  of
agricultural exports by value in 1984)  is harvested by hand mostly in  the
Sudano-Guinean area.   Sesame  is a  traditional  oil seed  crop  of minor
importance.
1.11      Fruits and vegetables  have some potential,  as evidenced by  the
creation in 1968 of the Union Burkinabe des Cooporatives Maraichires
(UBOCAM). These crops are traditionally grown during the dry season in
kitchen gardens and on valley bottom lands. Green beans (haricots verts)
are exported at a rate of  about 2,000 - 2,500 T  per annum, much of it  to
France.
1.12      Livestock  production  is  one  of  the  single most   important
activities in the economy, and crop and livestock production are greatly
dependent  on  one  another.   The  livestock  subsector  is  estimated  to
contribute about 25S OG the agricultural GDP and nearly 211 of all exports
in 1984. In 1982 the national herd was estimated at 2.8 million head of
cattle, nearly 2 million sheep and 2.5 million goats. In addition, there
were some 200,000 pigs and about 20 million head of poultry. Fifty percent
of all cattle (and 482 of all sheep and goats) are in the central
(Sudano-Sahelian) zone, with the remainder divided equally between the
Sahelian  and  Sudano-Guinean  zones.   Production  systems  are  extensive
agro-pastoral  and  nomadic,  and  are  characterized  by  poor   husbandry
practices, year-round low nutritional levels, and deteriorating grazing
resources.
1.13      Supply of and demand  for wood products have  been the object  of
intensive study by Government. It is estimated that 56% of the country's
total surface is covered by woody vegetation (155,000 km2 out of 274,000
km2), of which 462 consist of bush fallow and open forest park. The daily
fuelwood consumption rate of 1.65 kg per person represents 95% of the total
demand for this woody vegetation, and already exceeds natural rates of
regrowth. The remaining 51 is used for the production of building poles
and in various handicrafts. The national forestry strategy, designed by
the Ministry of Environment and Tourism (MET), is geared mainly to
increased wood production, particularly through the promotion of village or
family woodlots, and to the rational management and development of  natural
stands. It also aims at reducing wood consumption by distributing improved
stoves and by supporting research on alternative renewable fuels.



C.   Airicultural Institutions and Services
1. Ministry of Atriculture and Livestock (MAE)
1.14     Until 1985, the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAE)  was
responsible for the formulation of sectoral policy and for the overall
development of the agricultural and rural sector. During the second half
of 1986, two new ministries were created to deal with rural issuess a
Ministry of Water (Ministere de l'au), responsible for the development of
hydraulic resources and infrastructures, and a Ministry of Farmers' Affairs
(Ninlst&re  de  la Question  Paysanne);  the  latter  deals with   rural
institutions, such  as village  groups and  cooperatives, as well as with
functional literacy programs.
1.15     MAE  continues  to   be  responsible  for   crop  and   livestock
production,  rural  credit,  marketing   of  agricultural  products,   seed
production, and the training of agricultural and veterinary technicians.
It has three national Directorates and 11 regional branches (Organismes
k&gionaux de Developpement, ORD). Its three directorates are:
-   the Directorate of Agricultural Services (Direction des  Services
Agricoles  (DSA)),  which  includes  the National  Soil   Survey
Institute (BUNASOL), the National Seed Service (Service National
de  Semences)  and the   Plant  Protection  Service.   It   also
administers the fruit tree nurseries at Basenga and Banfora, and
supervises the pre-extension experimentation program 'Points
d'Appui de Prevulgarisation et d'Expirimentation" (PAPEH) and a
number of  other  national programs, e.g.,  the  FAO  Fertilizer
Project;
-   the  Directorate  of Livestock  Services  and Animal   Industry
(Direction des Services de l'Elevage et des Industries Anfmales
(DSEIA)), which includes the Animal Production Service and the
Veterinary  Laboratory.   This  directorate  also  operates   the
livestock stations at Samandeni and Banankeledaga, and the
Markoye ranch, all in the north of the country. In coilaboration
with MESRS, MAE also supervises the Research Center for Animal
Trypanosomes (CRTA) at Bobo-Dioulasso 1/ ; and
-   the  Directorate of Agricultural Extension  (Direction  de  la
Vulgarisation Agricole).
1.16     The 11 ORDs correspond to administrative departments, each with a
great deal of auitonomy. Under this decentralized form of administration,
1/  CRTA, financed exclusively by West Germany and France, has actually
been an enclaved high technology research center, and is likely to
become a regional center for West Africa.



the ORD Directors receive their authority  from the Minister of MAE.   ORDs
handle  activities  directly  linked  to  the  promotion  of   agricultural
development, including applied research in the PAPEM (Points dAppui de
Prevulgarisation  et   d'Exp'erimentation Multi-Locale)   planned  by   and
Implemented in collaboration with INERA; agricultural extension; input
supply;  credit;  and marketing.   Although  the  qualifications  of   the
directors and senior staff of the ORDs are usually good, those of the field
staff, who are in direct contact with farmers, are generally Insufficient.
2. Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (NESRS)
1.17      The Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research  (MISRS)
is the ministry 'de tutelle" for CNlEST, which is an EPA (Etablissement
Dublic de l'Etat a caractere administratif) endowed with legal personality,
assets, means of administration and financial autonomy. MESRS gives CNRST
policy orientation,  controls  its  operations and  functioning.   It  also
ensures that the objectives of CNRST are complied with in line with the
national policy framework. CNRST's day-to-day management Is an exclusive
task of  CNRST  itself.   INERA  and  IRBET  (Annex  1-1)  are  specialized
Institutes of CNRST. Along with the Institut de Recherche en Sciences
Sociales Humaines (IRSSH), the Institut Burkinabe de l'Energie (IBE), and
the Institut de Recherche sur les Substances Naturelles (IRSN), they come
directly under the authority of the Director General of CNRST who controls
the operations and personnel management of all its specialized institutes.
CNRST also supervises the agricultural education institutions and the
training of teaching staff of the University of Ouagadougou. To foster
higher education in agriculture, the IDR (Institut du Developpement Rural)
was created in 1973 at the University of Ouagadougou, under the auspices of
MESRS. The IDR offers two types of programs: a five-year 'long' cycle, of
which the last year is devoted to field work in Burkina and to the
preparation of a final dissertation, and a three-year 'short' cycle, with
six weeks of field work during the second and third years. The long cycle
leads to the diploma of Ingenieur du Developpement Rural (IDR) and the
short cycle to the diploma of Ingenieur de Technique du Developpement Rural
(ITDR).   Each  cycle  has  options  for  agronomy,  animal husbandry  and
stockwater development, and forestry.
3. Other Agencies
1.18      Other important agencies and  institutions involved in marketing
agricultural products and in supplying credit include: the National Grain
Authority (Office National des Ceriales (OFNACER)) for cereal marketing;
the Fibers and Textiles Company (Sociate des Fibres et des Textiles
(SOFITEX))  for  cotton  inputs,  marketing  and  short-ternm  credit;   the
Burkinabe Market  Gardening   Cooperative  Union   (Union  Burkinabe   des
Cooperatives Maraicheres (UBOCAM)) for marketing of vegetables and fruits;
the Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) for medium-term credit;
National Price Stabilization Fund for Agricultural Products (Caisse de
Stabilisation des Prix des Produits Agricoles (CSPPA)) for export crops
other  than  cotton;   National  Agency  for  the  Exploitation  of Animal
Resources (Office National de l'Exploitation des Ressources Animales



-7-
(ONERAD) for meet and dairy products; and the Society for Groundnut
Financing and Extension (Societe de Financement et do Vulgarisation de
l'Arachide (SOFVA)).
D.   Soctor Issues and Bank Strategy
1.19      Agriculture, since  it is  the predominant sector  of  Burkina's
economy, has  received considerable  Bank support.   As of  June 30,  1986,
agriculture (including the forestry and livestock subsectors) had received
15 IDA credits totalling US$123 million, or 40S of Bank's total lending to
Burkina.   The  earlier  projects were  designed  primarily  to   generate
short-term foreign exchange, rather than to help solve long-term sectoral
problems. This is one reason for the concentration of Bank lending in the
Southwest and for the rapid expansion of cotton production, which has
replaced livestock as  the country's  leading export  commodity. With  the
experience gained under these earlier projects and the completion of a
number of sector studies, the Bank's knowledge of the sector has much
improved. This has resulted in the formulation, in collaboration with the
Government, of a more coherent and forward-looking strategy aimed at
removing basic constraints while laying the groundwork for sustained
development.
1.20      Of the 15 agricultural projects  financed by the Bank, nine  have
already been successfully completed. The projects still under execution
are of two types:
(i) area-based irojects in the Southwest, namely the Second
Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1097-BUR);
the Volta  Noire Agricultural  Development  Project   (Cr.
1284-BUR); and the Hauts-Bassins Agricultural Development
Project (Cr. 1285-BUR); and
(iI) sectoral projects, namely the Third Rural Development Fund
Project (Cr.  1218-BUR);  the Koudougou Agriculture  Pilot
Development  Project   (Cr.   1293-BUR),   both   of  which
concentrate their activities in the Central Plateau; and the
Fertilizer Project (Cr. 1550-BUR), which seeks to promote
fertilizer use by Improving policies and removing price
distortions.
Of these six projects, all but one (the Third RDF Project) include applied
research components.
1.21      The Government  is taking  a number  of steps  to help  villagers
manage and use their  land and water resources on a sustained basis.   The
recent agrarian reform legislation and Government's stated policy of
encouraging local participation in decision-making through village groups
have provided the basis for the new sectoral strategy formulated by the
Bank and Government. Follow-up phases to the Bougouriba and Niena-Dionkele
projects are expected to constitute pilot operations for a nationwide
Village Resource Management Project now under preparation. Since November



- 8 -
1985, the Bank has also been involved In a pilot operation (Operation Test
de Renforcement de la Vulgarisation Agricole; OTRVA) aimed at strengthening
the country's extension services through the introduction of the T&V
system. OTRVA's current results are promising in terms of better work
organization, better training of field staff and improved linkages with
research. The lessons of that operation will be used in the formulation of
a National Agricultural Support Services (Extension) Project, also under
preparation. This project would seek to Improve the institutional framework
and  quality  of  basic  support  services,  beginning with   agricultural
extension and livestock services, and a functional literacy program.
1.22      If such  efforts  to  decentralize  Government  services  and to
improve husbandry practices at the farm level are to succeed, however,
rural communities must be provided with technically sound guidelines on
soil conservation, water harvesting, integration of livestock and trees
Into farming systems, the use of organic and/or mineral fertilizer and the
management of forests, pastures and fallow lands. This means that the
national agricultural research system must Improve its capacity to provide
technical solutions to the immediate problems faced by farmers and to the
long-term problems of resource degradation caused by increasing demographic
pressures. Strong functional links must also be established between
research and extension, as already initiated through OTRVA.
II. AGRICULTURAL,  'STOCK AND FORESTRY RESEARCH
A.  BackAround
2.1       Prior to independence in 1960, the planning and administration of
agricultural research were performed by French researchers and research
administrators,  and  results were analyzed  and maintained  in France.
Research programs tended to be commodity-oriented, dealing largely with the
genetic Improvement of export crops. Four of the stations belonging to the
former regional research network were established in what Is now Burkinas
Farako-Ba, formerly a substation of Bambey, (Senegal);  Niangoloko,  estab-
lished in 1949 as a center for research on karite (Butyrospermum paradoxum)
and subsequently turned  into a substation for groundnut  research in the
Southwest; Saris, a former cotton farm which in 1961 became a substation of
IRAT (Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures
Vivrieres) with headquarters at Bambey; and Kamboinse, a main station in
the Central Plateau.
2.2      After a long period of  little change in  research planning  and
organization, Independence signified the beginning of an era of involvement
with several bilateral and multilateral donors interested in helping the
country  to  solve  the most  immediate  and pressing problems  in  its
agricultural sector.   Relatively little  attention was  paid, however,  to
developing a national  agricultural  research capacity.   The  1982 joint
FAO/ISNAR/World Bank mission to Burkina (para. 1.4) reported that more than
a  dozen   institutions  and  donor-funded  projects  were  involved   in
agricultural research, each planning its programs  in relative  Isolation,



- 9-
and often  on  a  regional,  rather than  national,  basis.   National  and
international programs overlapped, leading to duplication of effort,
geographic imbalance in research programs, and neglect of the essential
links between research and extension. Moreover, research had thus far
failed to deal adequately with the constraints faced by most subs'stence
farmers and had largely ignored the fundamental issues of environmental
degradation, the need to redesign farming systems, and to integrate crops,
livestock and trees.
B.  The Ortanization of Airicultural Research
2.3       In February 1978,  a conference organized  by the Gover=nent  and
sponsored by UNESCO recommended the creation of a national institution
responsible for all scientific research in Burkina. This recommendation
resulted in the establishment in 1979 of the Ministry for Higher Education
and Scientific Research (MESRS), which is responsible for formulating
overall agricultural research policy and objectives (para. 1.17).  The 1978
conference also drew up a statute  for research workers which was  formally
adopted by  decree of  June  24, 1982.   Among  other things,  the  statute
offered researchers a guaranteed salary and possibilities for career
development.
2.4        Since January  1985, INERA's  management and  organization  have
undergone significant changes involving the transfer of responsibility for
research planning and nanagement to Burkinabe nationals. At present there
are three research stations, and long-term plans call for the development
of three more, so that each major agro-ecological zone can be served by a
regional research station (Centre Regional de Recherches Agricoles (CRRA)).
The eventual expansion of the research station network, and the ultimate
distribution of the eight national programs proposed by INERA, would be as
follows (Map 20120)t
Existing Stations     Research Protram                    Agro-ecolozical
Retion (para. 1.7)
Kamboinse        - Farming Systems Research (RSP)   Central Plateau
- Soil-Water-Plant Inter-
relationships(ESFIMA)
Saria            - Cereals (SOMIMA)                  Central Plateau
Farako-Ba        - Cotton
- Rice                             Southwest



- 10 -
Planned New Stations
Di               - Vegetable and Fruit Crops         West
Xouars           - Oilseed crops                     East
Katcharl         - Livestock Production Program      North
2.5       Thus  fart  Burkinabe  nationals  have  been  appointed  for  all
existing and future stations, but those staff who are eventually to be in
charge of Saria, Kouare and Katchari are presently stationed at Kamboinse
(and reside in Ouagadougou). As of January 1986, all eight national
programs also have  Burkinab; Program Coordinators.   Station Managers  and
Program Coordinators presently all report directly to the Director of
INERA.
2.6       Forestry research, which is still relatively unstructured, is the
responsibility of IRBET.  Its research activities deal with ecosystems  and
forestry. The latter component Is contracted out to the Centre Technique
Forestier Tropical (CTFT), the Forestry Institute of CIRAD. IRBET is also
responsible for providing training support to research staff. In addition,
forestry seed production and some applied research in the context of
projects at village level are carried out by the Ministry of Environment
and Tourism (MET).
C.   Research Priorities and Proxrams
2.7       Following two years of  preparation and formulation of  proposals
by IBRAZ for a long-term research program, and of deliberations among
Interested parties, a national seminar was hold in February 1985 at
Ouagadougou. The main results of this seminar were a consensus among the
0overnment, the donors  and the  International research  listitutions on  a
national agricultural research strategy, and the adoption of the following
eight research programs, ranked In descending order of prioritys
-    Farming systems (Recherche sur lea Systemes de Production; RSP);
-    Soil/Water/Plant relationships (Recherche sur l'Eau, lea sols, la
fertilisation, irrigation at machinisme agricole; ESFIMA);
-    Livestock production (Productions animales);
-    Sorghum, millet and maize (Sorgho, M_1, Mals; SOMIMA);
-   Annual oil  seeds  and  grain  legumes  (Oleagineux  annuels  et
L;gumineuses a graines);
-    Horticultural,  root  and  fruit  crops  (Cultures   marazch4res,
Plantes fruiti;res et Plantes 8 tubercules);
-    Rice (Rix et Risiculture); and



- 11 -
-    Cotton (Coton).
All the above programs, some more than others, are already under active
Implementation, with Burkinabe researchers in charge. The programs would be
further strengthened under the project. Their present status is briefly
sumarised in the following paragraphs.
2.8       Farminft Systems Research (Annex 2, Table 1).  In 1979, a  Farming
Systems Unit (FSU) was established at Kamboinse under the nuspices of a
Semi-Arid Good Grains Research SAWGRAD program largely funded by USAID.
This regional program has carried out and published results of studies of
farming systems, mainly deallng with food crop farmers of the Central
Plateau. The FSU program has since been incorporated in INERA's Farming
Systems Research (RSP) program, with funding also from IFAD. Another such
study is being conducted with CIRAD funding In  the North (Yecenga).   RSP
staff at Farako-Ba is involved with staff from the Cotton retearch team In
several studies of farming systems involving cotton as the major crop.
Other studies, more agronomic in nature, deal with sedeAtarisation of
Immigrants from the Central Plateau. RSP staff are, moreover, involved in
applied research and demonstrations through the PAPEM program (para. 1.15).
Finally, most are also Increasingly involved in periodic training of
extension staff. Major problems and shortcomings are: the relative lack of
experienced staff; the need for a clearly defined work pro6ram; and the
need for a clearer definition of relationships with other research
programs.
2.9       SoilWater/Plant Relationships (Annex 2, Table 2).  This research
program aims at I) developing farming practices that make better use of
available soil moisture and rainfall, by taking into account the various
soil characteristics and cropping systems, including those involving trees;
ii) halting soil degradation; and iII) in collaboration with the RSP
program, studying the factors leading to the breakdown of existing  farming
systems, and developing sustainable alternative cultivation and pastoral
systems. Presently, much of the program concerns itself with fertilizer
studies (use of natural phosphate; use and role of organic matter; soil
acidity problams) in the Centre (Saria), South-West (Farako-B;) and West
(Di). At Di, irrigated crop research has been underway with technical
assistance from PAO. Applied research on soil and water conservation is
conducted at about 10  locations on farmers' fields.  And, although it  is
meant to be part of the overall program, research on tillage and
agricultural mechanization (i.e. use  of draught power)   has not yet  been
initiated and specialist staff will be needed. There is a lack of balance
among sub-programs, and hence, a need for clearer definition of the overall
program and priorities among sub-programs.
2.10     L~ sestock Production  (Annex 2,  Table  3).  Whereas  cattle  and
small livestock play a vital role in the rural and national economy,
livestock research in Burkina has yet to begin. Present staff consists of
5 researchers with relatively limited experience, and the acting Program
Coordinator, an Agricultural  Economist, can  spend only about  251 of his



- 12 -
time on the  program tue  to many other management responsibilities.   The
program a8 yet lacks clear objectives and direction.
2.11      Cereals (Annex 2, Table 4).  The program has two Burkinab; maize
and millet   breeders   and   a  number   of   part-time   and   full-time
plant-protection specialists. A third maize breeder (Farako-Ba) and one
sorghum breeder (Saria)  are provided  by a bilateral  donor (France).   In
addition, the international institutions (ICRISAT, CIMMYT/IITA) have active
sorghum and maize research programs In Burkina. The program is relatively
well-staffed. There Is a need, however, for establishing priorities among
the many different activities in which the team is involved -- some of
which would fit better into the RSP or ESFIMA programs -- and thereby
making the most of regional and international research networks and
programs.
2.12      Oilseeds (Annex 2, Table 5).   This program, which also  concerns
itself with  grain  legumes,  is  among  the  oldest  research   programs,
especially with regard to groundnut and Karite (Butyrosiermum, also known
a sheabutter). Cowpea, soybean and sesame research programs are of more
re4ent date. The program has 3 Burkinabe researchers working full time:
the Program Coordinator (groundnut and sesame breeder) and an entomologist,
both stationed at Kamboins;, and a recently recruited groundnut breeder (at
Farako-Ba). In addition, two expatriate researchers (full-time) and 6 more
Burkinabe (part-time) support the program. The main concern of the program
-- which also is staffed by more experienced researchers -- should be to
more narrowly define its research priorities and programs, focusing on
plant selection and protection, and harvest and post-harvest losses for the
three major  crops  (groundnuts,   cowpea,  sesame),  leaving  agro-   and
socio-economic problems to the RSP and ESFINA programs.
2.13      Vsaetable and Fruit Crops (Annex 2, Table 6). More than 20 years
of research have produced a considerable amount of agronomic information
(including seed production of improved varieties) on tomato, onion and
green bean production.   Problems with these  crops are more  agro-economic
and commercial than technical.
2.14      Rice (Annex 2, Table 7).   National rice production has not  been
able to keep pace with rising demand, which in Burkina has nearly doubled
over 20 years. And although there are only slightly more than 3,000 ha of
irrigated rice in the country versus 38,000 ha of lowland rice (bas-fonds),
rice research has since the early 19709 dealt mostly with irrigated rice
production problems. The program has received technical assistance from
FAO since the mid 1970. through the Center for Experimentation on Rice and
Irrigated Crops (CERCI). A total of 4 local staff participate in the Rice
programs  A   rice   breeder,   an  entomologist   (both   full-tine),   a
phytopathologist (50Z),  and a  seed production  agronomist.   Post-harvest
losses and storage problems warrant special attention.
2.15      Cotto  (Annex 2, Table 8). As the RSP and ESFIMA programs  become
better  defined  and  integrated  with  the  commodity-oriented   research
programs, this program will be able to concentrate its resources and



- 13 -
efforts more specifically on cotton breeding maintenance research (to
ensure availability to the farmers of high quality seed) and cotton
agronomy (especially pest and disease control). Three full-time Burkinabe
researchers and one part-time researcher work together with one  expatriate
cotton breeder (full-time) and a part-time expatriate agronomist.
2.16      Forestry  Research  (Annex  2,  Table  9).   Given  the   crucial
importance of trees in the rural economy, forestry research needs to be
oriented towards overall economic development objectives which ares (i) to
limit deforestation and satisfy the demand for wood fuels by intensifying
agricultural, agro-forestry and forestry production systems; and (ii) to
protect and manage non-cultivated rural spaces with a view to sustained
production of wood and fodder. Forestry research planning still needs
improvement. The Forestry Research Committee meets annually under the
egis of IRBET, but it only plays  a small role in research planning.   The
research activities of IRBET include:
-    terrestrial  and  aquatic  ecosystems  research,  including  some
zoological research, and ethnobotanical studies and inventories
of useful species;
-   methodological  research  on  ecosystem management:   a  project
called 'Etudes et Actions 4ntegrees de Reboisement dans la
Province de Bazegal (UNSOIPNUDIPNUE) is underway and involves
village tree planting through popular participation;
-    forestry research: ecology and liprovement of major afforestation
species (Eucalv"tus; Acacia) silvicultural practices applicable
to  plantations; water  and  soil  conservation;   silvicultural
mnagement and yield control of naturally occurring forest
formations; and wood technology;
-    Education support  activitiess   teaching materials  for  science
instruction in the Burkinabe school system.
D.   Research Facilities
2.17      INERA and  IRBET both  have  their headquarters  at  Ouagadougou.
IRBET's  facilities,  though  cramped,  are  functional,  whereas   INERA's
facilities are very inadequate. INERA's Director, a technical advisor, and
the accounting and support staff now work out of an old rented villa in the
city.  INERA is  in charge  of four research  stations:  Kamboinse,  Saria,
Farako-Ba, and Niangoloko (Map No. 20120).
2.18      The Kamboinse research  station covers  about 150 ha  some 12 km
west of Ouagadougou. Due to the fact that it hosts several international
institutions and programs (SAFGRAD, ICRISAT, IITA), it is the best equipped
station in Burkina. However, virtually all the land available for research
trials, as well as the existing facilities, for the most part funded
through the SAFGRAD program, are occupied by those institutions. At the



- 14 -
time of appraisal (December 1986), 5 of the 20 INERA researchers stationed
there were non-Burkinabe.
2.19      The Sarla research  station covers  some 400 ha.   It is  located
about 80 km Sothwest of Ouagadougou (and 123 km from Koudougou) within the
Central Plateau, as is Kamboinse. It lacks water and electricity and this
has further constrained development of research programs at the station.
There are 7 researchers, including 2 from CIRAD. The station has 13 staff
houses (8 for researchers and 5 for technicians).
2.20      Farako-Ba covers 475 ha at about 10 km from Bobo-Dioulasso in the
Southwest. It is now a food crop research station with a total of 30
researchers, 10 of whom are expatriates. The station has stable space for
about 30 cowS, there is water and eleetricity, and the station is easily
accessible by road from Bobo-Dioulasso. The proximity to the city makes
that there is wio need for on-station housing for research staff.
2.21      Nianaoloko, managed as  a sub-station of  Farako-Ba, is  situated
130 km south of Bobo-Dioulasso in the far southwest of the country, where
the average rainfall is about 1200 mm. The station covers less than 40 ha,
but land  is  said  to  be  available  for  further  expansion.   The  farm
buildings, offices, housing, stores and equipment are in very poor
condition. Staff consists of 2 expatriate scientists plus 2 technicians
and a limited support staff.
2.22      IRBET has three  research bases with  permanent staff.  They  are
located in three different and representative ecological aones. The main
one is in the Forest reserve of Gonse near Ouagadougou, (Central Plateau);
the second one near Dinderosso (Southwest); and a third one a small "point
d'appui" at Djibo in the Sahelian zone.
S.   Staffint and Technical Assistance
2.23      In December 1986, INERA's Burkinabe staff numbered  approximately
100. Of those national staff, 50 were researchers and 32 were technicians;
the remainder were support staff. Annex 2 (Tables 1-8) shows the present
distribution of INERA's professional staff by specialization and by
research program.   Among  the   professional  Burkinabe  staff,  5   held
Doctorates; 11 had an MSc or equivalent degree; and one held a B.Sc; 19
had a Diploma of "Ingenieur du Developpement Rural' and 4 a Diploma of
"Ingenieur de Technique du Developpement Rural" from the Institut du
Developpement Rural (IDR) of the University of Ouagadougou. Only about 30S
of the  professional staff  had more  than 6  years of  experience.   IRBET
professional staff comprised 3 holders of doctorates; 2 DEA; 1 Ingenieur de
DRIE; 1 Ing6nieur de Travaux; and 2 staff with incomplete degrees (Annex
3).
2.24      In accordance with the  criteria set  forth in  the statute  for
research workers (Statuts particuliers des personnels chercheurs; para.
2.3), criteria which are based on the qualifications and experience of the
researchers concerned, professional staff are classified by the National



- 15 -
Scientific  Conuittee   (Comite  Scientifique   National  -   COSCINA)   as
lchercheurs confirm6s"  and IgeneralUstes'.  As of  December 1986,  within
INERA the first category comprised 12 'Chargis de recherche and one
'Maitre de recherche"; the second category comprised the more than 35
"Attach;s de recherche". Research staff of the latter category need to be
confirmed in their position by COSCINA and by the "Comite Consultatif
Inter-Africain de la Recherche Scientifique" (CCIARS) which review and
evaluate the individual performances  of the junior researchers.   Starting
from the date of their first appointment with INERA or IRBET, the latter
have 6 years to produce and publish at least one research paper of
acceptable scientific quality in order to be promoted to the status of
full-flodged "Charga de recherche". The above statistics illustrate the
'young" nature of INERA as a research organization.
2.25      As of December 1986, INERA staff included 16 expatriates (11 from
CIRAD, 4 from the SAFORAD program and 1 from FAO) distributed as shown In
Annex 2, Table 9. Eight of these staff are stationed at Farako-Bi and 8 at
Kamboinso/Saria. Technical assistance to IRBET is provided by CIRAD (CTFT)
through the funding of 2 forestry specialists, and by FAC through the
funding of one ecologist.
2.26      Burkina benefits from  and participates in  a number of  regional
and International  research programs.   One  of the  aims of  the  proposed
project is to foster the strongest possible linkages between the national
research institutions (INERAIIRBET)  and these  international and  regional
programs.  Several of  those programs  are implemented under  the aegis  of
SAFGRAD. The coordinating office of this OAUISTRC-sponsored project is
hosted by the Government of Burkina Paso since its inception in 1977.
SAFGRAD membership involves 26 OAU countries. One of its major objectives
is to  coordinate regional  research networks.   In addition,  it seeks  to
promote the exchange of improved plant genetic material and to promote the
diffusion and transfer of improved on-farm technology. Major collaborating
donors and agencies ares CILLS, CI4MYT, FAC, ICRISAT, IFAD, IITA, INSAH,
IRDC (Canada), Purdue University, and USAID. The following are among the
more relevant programs for Burkinas
(iii) SAFGRAD's maize/cowpea improvement program, which has been
under implementation since 1979, in collaboration with
CIMMYT and IITA;
(iv) Farming systems research (FSR) activities within SAFGRAD,
which began in 1978 with the formation of the Purdue
University supported Farming Systems Unit (FSU);
(v)  SAPGRAD/ICRISAT's sorghum  and millet  improvement  network,
which became operational in 1982.
2.27      A tripartite agreement between the Government of Burkina Paso and
UNDPIFAO covers a research program for rice and other irrigated crops.   At
the time of appraisal, negotiations were underway between the Government
and UNDP about a further extension of the program which has been under



- 16 -
implementation since June 1973. Any such extension would seek to achieve
full integration of the UNDP-funded activities into the national research
and extension systems. Similarly, a protocol of agreement exists between
OAU/STRC and the Government of Burkina of 3-years' duration until September
1987, under which IFAD-funding provides support to INERA's farming systems
research program (RSP). Continued funding for a follow-up phase until 1991
is likely. At the time of appraisal the extension of the general agreement
between ICRISAT and the Government was expected to be ratified shortly.   A
decision on the future of ICRISAT's program and on ICRISAT's physical
presence in Burkina (at Kamboinse) will be made once construction of
ICRISAT's new regional headquarters at Niamey (Niger) nears completion.
F.   Research-Extension Linkases
2.28      One of Government's major objectives for the agricultural  sector
is to increase agricultural output and its share in GDP by providing
improved and better coordinated production - supporting services to as many
crop  farmers  and pastoralists  as  possible.   As  far  as  researchi  is
concerned, available technical messages often prove to be applicable only
on a limited scale as they have not been geared to farmers' needs,
constraints and  socio-economic characteristics.   As far  as  agricultural
extension is concerned, the field extension worker (encadreur) and his
supervisor are often inadequately informed of the latest research findings,
as well as inadequately trained. The Government is well aware of the need
for further strengthening of linkages between research and extension,
particularly at the grass roots level, and between extension and the
farmers. Functional linkages already exist at the central and field level,
between INERA (in the Ministry of Higher Education, HESRS) and Extension
(in the Ministry  of Agriculture,  MAE).  This is  done  through  regular
training by researchers of Extension staff (Techniciens specialises, TS) as
initiated  under   OTRVA  (para.   1.21);  through  joint   planning   and
mplementation of field demonstrations (PAPEM; para. 1.16); and through
informal but regular contacts between researchers and extension workers.
Research Funding
2.29      Historical data on total  spending for agricultural research  are
not readily available in Burkina, as it was only in 1986 that INERA assumed
responsibility for preparing its own budget and began keeping its own
records and accounts. Until that date, research administration (research
planning, accounting, data processing) was done by each individual donor,
with the result that most of the historical data are kept in France. Annex
4 gives best estimates of total funding for agricultural research by source
of funds for the period 1980-85.
2.30      As shown in Annex 5,  total spending on agricultural research  in
1986  amounted  to  an  estimated   CFAF  1,291 million  (US$3.7   million
equivalent) of which about 322 came from Government's budget and 68Z from
donors. Government's contribut'.on to INERA's 1986 budget amounted to CFAF
50 million for capital expenditures plus CFAF 199 mil!ion for recurrent
expenditures. The latter are exclusive of the salaries of civil servants



- 17 -
working for INERA (researchers and technicians), who are paid directly by
the state. Their cost is estimated at an additional CFAP 167 million.
State funding for agricultural research in 1986 therefore totalled about
CFAF 417 million. In addition, bilateral and multilateral donors in 1986
contributed CFAF 536 million to INERA's capital budget (a large portion of
which was for technical assistance) and CFAF 339 million to INERA's
operational budget. Contributors were: France (CFAF 371 million - 421);
UNDP/FAO (CFAF 312 million - 36Z); IFAD (CFAF 109 million = 12%); EEC (CFAF
70 million = 8S); and smaller donors (CFAF 13 million = < 2Z). Forty-five
percent of Goverrment's recurrent expenditures for research in 1986 (CFAF
366 million or US$1 million equivalent) was for salaries. The 1986 budget
of IRBET amounted to CFAF 179 million. As shown in Annex 6, slightly move
than one-third or that amount was for operating costs, largely salaries.
Nearly 901 of the  total investment cost was  for technical assistance  and
training.
H. Accounting and Financial Management
2.31      INERA's  accounting  and  financial management  system  is  very
rudimentary. State-financed expenditures for research are accounted for in
its books by the Head of Administration and Finance, under four headings:
(a) salaries and wages (for contract workers only, as INERA's permanent
staff are not on INERA's budget); (b) research station and HQ operating
costs; (c) research program operating costs; and (d) investments. At each
of the three research stations (Kamboinse, Saria and Farako-Ba) an accounts
clerk keeps simple daily records of expenditures. The accounts clerks
supply monthly summary statements with supporting documents to INERA
headquarters, where overall summary statements are then prepared for
submission to the Directorate General of CNRST, where INERA's (and also
IRBET*s) accounts are kept.
2.32      There is as yet no uniformity with respect to the  administration
of external  research funding.  Some  donors insist  upon using  their  own
accounting systems, while others accept the Government (INERA-IRBET-CNRST)
system. In the latter case, however, there is no effective monitoring by
INERA of spending  and program implementation.   The project would  address
this problem through the introduction of an improved computerized financial
management and accounting system and the appointment of a qualified
accountant (para. 4.14).
2.33      To conclude, INERA,  a specialized institute within MESRS, is  a
young organization with limited experience in research planning and
management, but with  a heavy mandate.   Its  financial management  and
accounting  system,  as well as   its  personnel management  and   staff
development programs, still need to be set up. Its internal organization
is characterized by a very centralized line of command, whereby all
managers (Program Coordinators, Station Managers, etc.) report directly to
the Director of INERA. Functional relationships among individual research
programs and between research and extension need to be clarified and
strengthened. In several instances, program content and priorities also
need to be defined more precisely. Government and donors are well aware of



- 18 -
the need for improvements in staffing and training, and of the need for
institutional development. The proposed project would seek to address the
above problems, in line with Government's plans and efforts to strongly
support the agriculture sector.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Obiectives and Justification
3.1       The project would constitute the  first phase of a long-term  (10
to 15-year)  development  plan  for  agricultural  research.   One  of  the
principal design criteria has been that it should be financially and
administratively manageable. The long-term plan would aim at developing a
unified national agricultural research institute and organization dealing
with crop, livestock and forestry production, and catering to the needs of
the  different   caterories   of   primary   producers   in  the  various
agro-ecological zones of the country. Such an organization would be
staffed by trained Bdrkinabe research specialists and a few short-term
outside consultants.  Accordingly,  objectives of this  first 5-year  phase
would be, too
(i) strengthen and consolidate the capacity of national agricul-
tural research (including livestock and forestry) to plan,
execute and evaluate research programs that are in line with
Government agricultural policies, responsive to farmers'
needs,  and  alert   to  relevant   research  conducted   in
neighboring countries and/or by international institutes;
(ii) improve the balance and linkages between inrdividual research
programs, by placing greater emphasis on multidisciplinary,
systems-oriented    research,    as    opposed    to      the
commodity-oriented research that has prevailed in the past;
and
(iii) strengthen links between research and extension services.
3.2       The project is in line with the Bank's agricultural strategy  for
Burkina (as well as for all of Sub-Saharan Africa), which gives high
priority to research and development in the service of smallholder crop
farmers  and  livestock  owners.   It would  directly  complement  ongoing
Bank-assisted agricultural projects in Burkina by helping to halt resource
degradation and desertification and by developing improved techniques for
the integration of crops, livestock and forest'ry. Moroover, it is in line
with the 1986 Bank study of agricultural research in West Africa, which
aimed at formulating a common strategy for investments in financial and
human  resources  to  improve  the  continent's  prospects  for  food   and
agricultural productivity.



- 19 -
B.   Summary Description
3.3       The proposed project would seek  to achieve the above  objectives
by financing:
(a) Improvements to INERA's basic network of research conters, with
emphasis   on   existing   facilities   and   to   the   physical
Infrastructure at INERA and IRBET headquarters;
(b) short- and long-term technical assistance and staff training
needed to strengthen the local capacity to plan, implement,
monitor and evaluate a national agricultural research program,
including livestock and forestry;
(e)  equipment,  vehicles  and   supplies,  and   the  operating   and
maintenance costs associated with the implementation of the
priority research programs.
(d) equipment and operating costs (travel allowance and vehicle
operating costs) incurred by research staff for the periodic
training of extension staff (subject matter specialists).
3.4       In order to concentrate,  rather than disperse, scarce  resources
and skills, and to allow a critical mass of research staff to work
effectively, emphasis during the first years of the project would be on
consolidating research programs; on rehabilitating and equipping existing
infrastructure and facilities at Kamboinse, Saria and Farako-Ba; and on
financing  the  operating  expenses  of priority  research  programs   and
activities. Funding would also be provided for initial investments in
support of adaptive research programs, Including exploratory surveys within
the RSP and ESFIMA programs, varietal testing, and Improved seed production
at the three locations - Kouare. DI, and Katchari - where full-fledged
regional research stations may be developed at a later stage.
C.   Detailed Features
(i) Organizational Strengthening
3.5       The project would  support  the  further  strengthening  of  the
capacity of INERA's management to implement its national research program.
Administrative responsibilities and technical research management would to
the extent possible be separated within the institution (Annex 1-2). Under
the project, the Director of INERA would be assisted by two Division
Chiefs, one in charge of the Research Division (Division de Recherches) and
one in charge of the Resources Division (Division de Ressources). The 8
Program Coordinators, instead of reporting directly to the Director of
INERA as was the case until now (para. 2.33), would report to the Head of
the Research  Division;  similarly,  the  Station Managers,  instead   of
reporting directly to the Director, would report to the Head of the
Resources Division.   During  the first  three years of  the  project,  an
internationally recruited Research Management Specftlist would assist  the



- 20 -
Director of INERA in the overall, day-to-day management of the Institution,
in managing and monitoring the research programs, and in preparing future
work programs and budgets based on the submissions from Research Program
Coordinators and Station Managers. The financial management and accounting
system of INERA would be strengthened (through a PPF-funded technical
assistance contract and the hiring of a locally-recruited Accountant; para.
4.14)), thereby improving INERA's capacity to administer a computerized
joint accounting system for expenditures under the project for INERA and
IRBET. Management Councils (paras 4.5 and 4.7) would provide policy
guidance to INERA and IRBET; approve the budgets, and ensure that proposed
annual research programs are in line with national goals and priorities.
One of the researchers of INERA's Research Division would be appointed to
act as Research Extension Liaison Officer responsible for ensuring regular
contacts and close coordination between research and extension. In order
to ensure proper planning and coordination in the procurement of civil
works, furniture, equipment and vehicles under the project, a "Senior
Project Engineer's Office' (para 3.26) would be operational for the
duration  of  the  project.   It  would  be  headed  by  an   experienced,
internationally recruited Engineer, who would be hired for a total of 30
months (Terms of Reference are in Annex 14). He would work with and train
a Burkinabe Material Resources Officer funded under the project, who upon
completion of the project, would have overall responsibility for INERA's
acquisition and material resources and maintenance programs.
3.6       Presently  there  are i only  32   research  (field)   assistants
(stechniciens") in INERA for its 50 researchers. The project would redress
this  imbalance  by  hiring  a  total  of  49  new  'techniciens' and   38
"observateurs"  during  the  5-year   period.   For  IRBET,  2   additional
"techniciens" would be hired.
(ii) Support to Research Programs
3.7       Production  Systems  Research  (Recherche  sur  les  Systemes  de
Production, RSP). The RSP program will have its headquarters at Kamboinse
to cover the Central Plateau, the North, and the East. A second unit based
at   Farako-Ba  will   work   on   the   Southern   and   Western   areas.
Multidisciplinary teams will, in close cooperation with staff of commodity
programs and the extension service, study and describe existing farming
systems, including livestock production and agroforestry systems, and
identify zones with  similar  production systems  and  constraints.   This
zoning exercise would provide guidance to the national applied research
programs, and would form the basis for designing research-managed trials to
be conducted over a period of 1-2 years, followed by farmer-managed trials
that would be planned and carried out in collaboration with extension
staff.   Promising  results   from previous  research  would  be   tested
immediately within the RSP program to develop new technologies adapted to
smallholders' needs and this would be followed by adaptive testing at the
ORD-level  through   existing  Points   d'Appui  de   Prevulgarisation   et
d'Experimentation Multilocale  (PAPEM).    Constant  feedback  and   close
collaboration between farming systems research and commodity-oriented
research programs will be essential. Similarly, close ties between research



- 21 -
and extension would ensure that research findings are passed on to farmers
as quickly as poss$ble and that farmers' feedback reaches the appropriate
branch of rosearch. The RSP program is to become one of the major links
between research and extension, and although in-service training of
extension subject  matter  specialists ("Techniciens  sp;cialis;s)  in  its
choice of trainers would not limit itself to staff from this program only,
RSP will play a leading role in the dissemination of research results to
extension.
3.8       The project  would support  this  priority program  by  providing
funds for strengthening the teams at Kamboinse and Farako-Ba. This would
involve recruiting 5 new Burkinab; researchers:
-    1 systems  agronomist as  of year 1,  to work with  the  senior
(expatriate) agronomist already in post, at Kamboinse;
-    1 general agronomist as of year 1, for Kamboinse;
-    1 agricultural economist as  of year 1,  for Farako-Ba, to would
work  in  close  collaboration  with  the  Program   Coordinator
(economist) of the Cotton program;
-    1 systems agronomist as  of year 2, to work with the  expatriate
agronomist already in post, at Farako-Ba; and
-    1 livestock production specialist as of year 3, for Farako-Ba.
3.9       In order to  assist the Program  Coordinator in defining  overall
program orientation and content, as well as its organization (including the
functional relationships with  commodity   research  programs  and  with
extension), an internationally racruited Agricultural Economist, thoroughly
familiar with applied research methodology, would be funded for the first
three years  of the  project (Terms  of  Reference are  in Annex  14).   In
addition, the project would provide funds for vehicles and incremental
operating costs, including funding for 12 additional "technicians".
3.10      WaterlSoil/Fertilization/IrrigationlMechanization   (Eau,    Sol,
Fertilisation, Irrigation,  Machinisme  Agricole -  ESFIMA).   The  program
would conduct erosion control, soil and water conservation, and fertilizer
trials, with particular emphasis on the interactions between moisture
availability and the type, timing and economically profitable levels of
fertilizer for different crops and cropping systems. Tillage methods and
agricultural  mechanization   (including   appropriate   hand   tools   and
animal-drawn equipment) would be studied with a view to promoting more
productive farming techniques. Research on animal traction as a means to
integrate livestock into agriculture would be undertaken, with motorized
mechanization receiving low priority.
3.11      The project would provide funds for strengthening the program  as
follows: During the first two years of the project, the ESFIMA Program
Coordinator  would   be   assisted   by   an   internationally   recruited



- 22 -
Agriculturalist, who would assess ongoing programs, and help the team in
further defining research priorities and objectives (Terms of Reference are
in Annex 14). In terms of Burkinabd research specialists, one agricultural
mechanization specialist (animal traction) would be hired as of year 3, to
be stationed at Saria; one agricultural mechanization specialist would be
hired as of year 4, to be stationed at Farako-Ba; and as of year 3, one
Rural Engineer (Irrigation) would be hired for Di. As of year 2, an
Agroforestry specialist would join the program, to be stationed at
Ouagadougcu, and operating in the Central Plateau. Accordingly, Burkinabe
staff would be increased over the 5 year period from 8 researchers and
three technicians to 12 researchers and 12 Itechniciens^ (including two
additional ^techniciensn  for  the  agroforestry  component).   The  ESFIMA
program would be based at Kamboinse/Saria to cover the Central Region, with
a secondary unit at Farako-Ba to cover the South and West. Upon completion
of construction of required accommodation at Kouare, by year 3 of the
project, an Agronomist (Fertilizer and Soil Fertility trials) would be
transferred from Kamboinse to start up a new unit and subprogram at Kouare.
The  project would  also  finance  incremental  vehicles,  equipment   and
incremental operating costs.
3.12      The   Livestock   Production   Pronram   (Programme   Productions
Animales). An internationally recruited Livestock Production Research
Scientist would be hired for the first two years of the projfst to assist
the program's staff in drawing up a coherent research program and it was
agreed during negotiations that INERA would submit to IDA for review by
September 30, 1989, the livestock research program with detailed investment
and recurrent cost proposals. IDA approval of the proposals would be a
condition of disbursement for civil works construction related to the
livestock production research program at Katchari, its planned future
headquarters. In the meantime, staff would first have to carry out a
critical review and summary of past research. To better understand the
various livestock production systems and constraints faced by producers,
the team's specialists would, in collaboration with RSP staff, describe
existing systems involving both cattle and small stock. The project would
pay for vehicles and operating costs, and for one additional Itechnicien'.
3.13      Cereals (Sorghum, Millet  and Maize-SOMIMA).  Component  research
would concentrate on maintaining genetic potential and, together with RSP
and ESFIMA staff, collaborate on applied research. The project would
further strengthen the program by funding one additional position for a
Burkinabe Phytopathologist (sorghum), by year 1, to be stationed at Saria
and a shared position (with the rice research program, para. 3.16) of a
Post-harvest Technologist, as of year 3, to be stationed at Farako-Ba.
Incremental  operating  costs would   include  funding  of  6   additional
Otechniciens positions. General guidance to the overall program will be
provided through short-term consultancy visits for a total of 22 man-months
(up to 5 visits from an internationally recruited Cereal Agronomist, and up
to 4 visits from a Post-harvest technologist).
3.14      Oilseeds Proaram  (Proteagineux).   Research  under  the  project
vould focus on groundnut, cowpea and sesame as the crops of major economic



- 23 -
importance,  and within  those  crops,  concentrate  on  breeding,   plant
protection and harvest/grain storage problems. The project would fund 2
new Burkinab; research staff positions (1 plant breeder and one oilseed
agronomist). These new recruits would be stationed at Kamboinse (and/or
Farako-Ba) during the first two years, to work with senior researchers and
receive on-the-job training. Also, 6 "techniciens' vould be hired for the
program. Upon completion of the housing construction program at Kouar;,
the program would establish its headquarters there, during year 3 of the
project.
3.15      Veftetable and Fruit Crops (Cultures Maraich4res).  The relatively
small  program  will  receive  one  additional  Burkinab;  researcher   (a
phytopathologist) and 5 ItecLniciens" who, together with the Program
Coordinator, Station Manager and Rural Engineer (Irrigation) would be
stationed  at  Di   once  housing   has  been  constructed,   in year   3.
Agro-economic and marketing aspects warrant attention and require close
collaboration with the RSP program.
3.16      Rice (Programme Riz).  With a major focus on non-irrigated  rice
production, staff from this program, making maximum use of research efforts
elsewhere in the West African region, and in collaboration with ESFIMA and
RSP,  concentrate  on  applied  and  adaptive  research  on  lowland   rice
production ('culture  de bas-fonds").   The program would share with  the
Cereals (SOMIMA) program a newly recruited Burkinabe researcher (as of year
3) who would be responsible for research on post-harvest losses and grain
storage problems. This new recruit would receive guidance and in-service
training from an internationally recruited specialist, shared also between
this program and the SOMIMA program, and who would, beginning in year 2 of
the project, make an initial short-term consultancy visit of four months to
assess the problems and formulate a work program, followed by yearly return
visits of 2 months. Two new 'techniciens" would be hired for the program.
3.17      Cotton (Programme Coton). As the RSP and ESFDMA programs  become
better  defined  and  integrated  with  the  commodity-oriented   research
programs, this program will be able to concentrate its resources and
efforts mcre  specifically   on  cotton  breeding   research  (to   ensure
availability to the farmers of high quality seed) and cotton agronomy
(especially pest and disease control). The staffing position shown in
Annex 2, Table 8 would remain the same during the 5 years of the project.
This is again based on the assumption that the services provided by the
expatriate cotton breeder (full-time) and expatriate agronomist (part-time)
would continue for the duration of the project. Support under the project
would consist in the funding of 4 additional "techniciens"; incremental
transportation;   and  associated  operating  costs.   The  project would,
moreover, provide funding for a small expansion, in year 3, of the cotton
agronomy laboratory.
3.18      Forestry Research (Programme de Recherche Forestiere).  The  goal
of the forestry program would be to obtain, by the mid-1990s, preliminary
results making it possible to determine how trees influence agricultural
productivity and to improve those mechanisms through species improvement



- 24 -
and the association of improved woody species with crops. Research themes
supported under the project would include:
-    economic and social  significance of trees  in the rural milieu.
This study would be conducted jointly by RSP Agroeconomists and
the IRBET's ethnobotany specialist, in the context of INERA's RSP
program;
-    review of traditional agroforestry systems (RSP program);
-    impact of nitrogen-fixing woody species on crop yields and  ways
to enhance the moisture-retaining effect of trees. The project,
would finance, as of year 2, a Burkinab6 researcher (who would
join the ESFIMA program) and two local technicians; a vehicle;
and incremental vehicle maintenance and general operating costs;
-    improving the  efficiency of  symbiotic, nitrogen-fixing  systems
and their effect on soil productivity. This research would deal
mainly with  Acacia  albida.   Funding would  be  provided  for
recruitment in year 2 of a local researcher (4 man-years) and an
expatriate specialist (three years); two research technicians; a
four-wheel drive vehicle and one pick-up truck, and all related
operating expenditures. This program would be an IRBET research
program. A laboratory and specialized equipment for this type of
studies is already available.
(iii) TraininR and Technical Assistance
3.19      Trainina.  Funds for overseas training are already available from
various sources but they are often restricted in their applicability and do
not allow research staff, for example, to familiarize themselves with work
at international or regional research centers, or in neighboring countries.
Moreover, such training is often haphazard, without reflecting the specific
needs of the country and the research establishment. Therefore, to upgrade
the technical and management skills of INERA and IRBET staff at all levels,
the project provides funds for training in research management for the
Directors of INERA and IRBET and the Heads of the Research and Resources
Divisions of INERA; for formal degree and on-the-job training of INERA and
IRBET researchers; and other forms of training (workshops, special courses,
study tours and exchange visits. It is anticipated that by PY 10, national
agricultural research will have settled into its final organizational
structure; that it will by then, be fully linked to regional and
international research institutes; and that it will be staffed mainly with
local researchers assisted by short-term foreign consultancies.
3.20      By November  30, 1988,  INERA would  recruit an  Information  and
Training Officer with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA and
one of whose major tasks would be to review the education and experience of
all INERA and IRBET professional staff and to determine individual training
requirements and career paths. He would prepare a comprehensive program of
staff training and manpower development that addresses both individual and



- 25 -
institutional requirements. The staff of the Institut du Developpement
Rural (IDR) of the University of Ouagadougou would be asked to provide
advice and assistance in this task, as would technical assistance staff
hired under the project. It was agreed during negotiations that a draft of
a detailed first-year training program for INERA and IRBET staff would be
sent to IDA for commenti not later December 31, 1988 and that the plan
would be implemented not later than May 11, 1989, after having incorporated
the Association's comments. Every year thereafter, not later than May 31,
a detailed training program for the following twelve months would be sent
to IDA for its comments and subsequent prompt implementation. Under the
project, funds are provided to enable a total of 32 INERA and IRBET
research staff to receive higher degree training, as follows: 14 to obtain
a 'DiplOme des Etudes Approfondies' (DE&), 8 to obtain a Master of Science
(MSc degree); 4 to receive a 'Doctorat  de 3e cycle'; 3 to receive a  Ph.D.
and 3 a *Doctorat d'Etat  degree.  This program would provide a total of 66
trainee-years.  Criteria for participation  in this training program would
bes  demonstrated  ability  and  aptitude  for  scientific  research,   and
seniority within  the research  organization.  The  training program  would
moreover be in line with the special requirements  of the INERA and  IRBET
research programs. Accordingly, the above figures about types of training
are only indicative at this stage. The training program would need to
establish the specific training needs with the above criteria in mind.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that all staff having received
project-financed training abroad would remain in their assignments for at
least five years upon completion of such training.
3.21      Training opportunities are also  provided for research staff  not
involved in higher degree training. A total of 30 manweeks is available
for inviting international scientists to conduct training seminars in
Burkina Faso; 60 manweeks are provided under the project for Burkinabe
researchers to participate in international congresses, workshops, symposia
and  short  courses;  20 manweeks   are  provided  for  consultancies   by
international experts on specific topics or problems arising during project
implementation. Finally, funds are available for local training of support
staff, e.g. research assistants (Itechniciensw and lobservateurs*), and 15
manweeks will be available for other training needs identified during
project implementation.
3.22      In view of the limited  experience in research management of  the
INERA and IRBET staff, training in that subject is considered essential.
The Directors of IRBET and INERA will each be provided with 3 months'
training in research management ; funds will be available to allow them to
participate in international meetings on agricultural research (e.g. CGIAR
meetings or visits to ISNAR), and to allow for regular contact with
regional research organizations. These activities add up to a total of 20
manweeks for each of the two officials during the project period.
3.23      The Heads  of  the two  Divisions  of  INERA will  be  given  the
opportunity  to   become  acquainted  with  international   and   regional
agricultural research  organizations.   For  these activities  a  total  of



- 26 -
29 manweeks are available. For the Documentalist of INERA an overseas
training program is envisaged for a total of 13 manweeks.
3.24      Technical  Assistance.   In  order  to  assist  INERA  and  IRBET
management and staff with project implementation, especially during the
initial stages of the project when new tasks need to be undertaken, but
also for carrying out special studies and to provide backstopping during
subsequent years, technical assistance will be provided as detailed in
Annex II, Table 1. This involves 6 long-term positions for a total of 15
1/2 manyears; 44 manmonths for short-term consultancies and special
studies; and 57 manweeks of general consultancies, including 11 weeks of
annual missions in support of INERA's computerized financial management and
accounting system funded under the project (para. 4.14). Also included are
a two-months' consultancy in year 1 to prepare an inventory of the major
types and makes of scientific and laboratory equipment and its state of
repair, and then to make specific recommendations based on INERA and
IRBET's needs (para. 3.25).   Similarly in year 2,  a short-term (l month)
consultancy would review INERA's basic-seed production capacity and make
specific recommendations about ways to strengthen this important function
which it performs in collaboration with the National Seed Service of MAE.
In making these estimates, it has been assumed that the long-term technical
assistance INERA and IRBET are presently receiving (Annex 2, Table 9 and
para.  2.25)  would   continue  to  be   provided  throughout  the   5-year
implementation  period.  The   Research  Management  Specialist   providing
assistance to INERA's directorate during the first three years of the
project would be responsible, inter alia, for the preparation of detailed
terms of reference for technical assistance specialists and consultancies
funded under  the project  (Annex 14).   It would  be condition  of  credit
effectiveness that he would have been employed under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA.
(iv) Civil Works, Vehicles. Equipment and Surnlies
3.25      The project will provide for  the rehabilitation of the  existing
research infrastructure and facilities; for furniture; office, laboratory
and agricultural equipment and supplies; and for vehicles. A total of 29
new staff houses would  be constructed  and a new INERA  headquarters  at
Ouagadougou would be built (535 m2 total floor area). IRBET's headquarters
would be expanded by conversion of existing storage space to accommodate
the incremental local staff (2 researchers, 1 accounts clerk, 1 technicien
and 1  secretary) and  technical assistance.   Small guesthouses  would  be
built at the new INERA locations (Kouare, Katchari and Di) and for IRBET at
Djibo, to accommodate  visiting staff.   Funds are provided  to purchase  a
total of 54 new vehicles (including replacements every 4th year, except for
trucks which will not be replaced within the 5-year project period); 168
motorbicycles/mobylettes (replaced every third year); and 5 tractors plus
equipment.  Detailed cost tables have been prepared for each location.   At
the time of appraisal INERA's requirements for scientific and laboratory
equipment and supplies could not be estimated with sufficient accuracy.
Funds have been included for a specialist to draw up detailed equipment
schedules and requirements, including specifications, cost estimates and



- 27 -
bidding documents. Prior to inviting bids, the consultant's report with
castings would be submitted to IDA  for camment, by January 31, 1989.   IDA
approval of  h4e  detailed  scientific and  laboratory  equipment  purchase
program and c. t estimates  would be a condition  of disbursement for  this
category of equipment.
3.26      A Senior  Project Engineer will be  employed under  the  Project
(para. 3.5). His office (Bureau d'Appui Technique (BAT) within INEIA would
be responsible for planning, costing and procuring all investment items for
the pzQject, and for ensuring the expeditious delivery of all items
financed under  the  project.   The  design  and  execution  of  buildings,
installations and physical infrastructure financed by the project will be
the responsibility of the Architect (Architectes d'Opdrationl terms of
reference in Annex 14) who will work in close cooperation with the Senior
Project Engineer's Office. The Senior Project Engineer and local Architect
have already been employed by INERA through PPJ funding. Incorporation of
photo-voltaic (solar) energy technology is proposed for the project-funded
facilities (houses, offices, laboratories, coldstorage, etc.) at the
research stations. A Solar Energy Engineer would be retained during year 1
of the project to prepare technical proposals, cost estimates and bidding
documents for these items. His terms of reference will be drawn up by the
Senior Project Engineer.
3.27      INERA Headquarters.   IIERA's present  cramped headquarters  in
Ouagadougou would be replaced by a new building with office space for the
Director, the accounting department, and up to three visiting specialists,
as well as meeting and documentation rooms, and space for support staff.
New office furniture, including computer equipment for the accounting
department (through a turn key contract, para. 4.14), copy and telex
facilities, and vehicles would  be provided.   The new  building would  be
erected on a plot of land near the University of Ouagadougou. A condition
of  credit  effectiveness  would  be  that  the  Government  had   formally
attributed  to  CNRST/INERA/IRBET  legal  tenancy  of  the  land  for   the
implementation of the construction program.
3.28      IRBET Headquarters.  The project would finance the  construction
of additional office space at the Ouagadougou headquarters for 2 new
researchers, an accounts clerk, 1 technician and a secretary. In addition,
office and nursery equipment and materials, 3 motor vehicles, 2 motorcycles
and 2 mobylettes, and incremental operating costs would be funded.
3.29      Kamboins6.  The project will provide  funds for one tractor with
its implements; 9 vehicles (including 4 replacements) for the RSP, Cereals
and Oilseeds programs; and a total of 27 motorcycles and mobylettes,
including replacements. No civil works are planned for Kamboinse during
this phase.
3.30      sara.  Project-funded  construction would  begin in  year 2  and
would provide additional work space for 2 researchers and 5 research
assistants, additional laboratory  space, and  a greenhouse  (100 m2).  In
addition,  water  and  electricity   (photovoltaic) would  be   installed,



- 28 -
amenities which are presently lacking. The project would also provide 1
tractor with  Its  lmplements; 6 vehicles (for  ESFIMA  and  the  Cereals
program) and 28 motorcycles and mobylettes (including replacements).
3.31      Farako-Ba.  Civil works construction, beginning during year 3  of
the project, would consist of additional office space for 5 researchers and
support staff; a 70 m2 meeting roomllibrary, and an expansion (155 m2) of
the cotton agronomy laboratory. Additional equipment would consist of one
agricultural tractor with its i$plements, and the following means of
transportation would  be  fundeds   16  vehicles  (including  replaeements
vehicles) for the RSP, ESFIMA, Oilseeds, Cotton, Vegetables and Fruits, and
Rice programs; and 63 motorcycles and mobylettes (including replacements).
3.32      Di.  Starting  the  second  year  of the  project,  this  as  yet
undeveloped  location would  get  4  senior  staff  houses  (including   1
guesthouse) and 8 houses for research assistants (technicians); 60 mn of
storage space, plus work space for 4 researchers and their support staff.
In addition, water and electricity (photovoltaic) would be installed and
(in year 3) 10 ha would be developed and equipped for irrigated trials, all
funded under the project. The project would moreover provide funds for one
tractor with its $mplements; 4 vehicles (no replacements) and 26
motorcycles and mobylettes (including replacements), for the ESFIMA,
Vegetables and Fruits and Rice and Cereals programs.
3.33      Kouare.  Here also, the civil works program would start in year
2, with the construction of 5 senior staff houses, one guesthouse and 6
houses for research assistants (techniciens). Storage and workspace would
be built, and water and electricity (photovoltaic) would be installed in
order to open up this location as a future regional research station and
headquarters of the Oilseeds program. Project funds would be provided for
the purchase of one tractor with Its implements (In year 4); 5 vehicles
(including  one  replacement);  and   of  14 motorcycles  and  mobylettes
(including replacements), for the Oilseeds and ESFIMA programs.
3.34      Katchari.  The eventual  development of this  as yet  undeveloped
location into a future regional research station (CRRA) would be decided
jointly by the Government and IDA, upon preparation of a coherent proposal
for the An4mal Production research program (para. 3.12). In the meantime,
provisions are made for the construction, beginning in year 3, of 2 senior
staffhouses, 3 research assistants' houses, and 1 guesthouse. For year 4
provisions are made for the purchase of one agricultural tractor with
implements; and for the purchase of 1 vehicle, 2 motorcycles and 1
mobylette.
3.35      The project would finance  all operating  and maintenance  costs
incurred by INERA and IRBEST in connection with the investments made under
the project. Operating costs Include salaries and travel expenses for
local and Internationally recruited staff, as well as expenses (inputs,
materials) associated with tests and trials. Maintenance includes all
expenses required to keep buildings, vehicles and equipment in working
condition.



- 29 -
D.   Proiect Costs and Financing
3.36      Total  project  costs,  not  of  taxes  and  lmport  duties,  but
including  contingencies,   for   the   five-year   implementation   period
(1988-1992),  are  estma&ed  at  5.5  billion  CFAP  (or  US$18.2  million
equivalent), with a foreign exchange component of 532   On the basis of the
standard disbursement profile for agricultural projects in West Africa, it
is projected that it would take 8 1/2 years to disburse the proceeds of the
credit.  Through the increase in  price contingencies, this would  increase
total project costs to CFAF 5.6 billion (or US$18.8 million). Project costs
are summarised below. A breakdown of costs by research program is in Annex
8.
PROJECT COST SUmMARY
Local   Forein  Total   Local   Forein  Total  X Foreign X Total
_-CPAF mlIIn----- - -elUSS  llIeon-x- *xchange  base costs
INERA
INRA HeaduAters      $61     1,456    2,C1?    1.9     4.6      6.7     72       48
Farako-DU            426      228      "4a    1.4      6.7      2.1     SS       is
Salrs                266       186     891    0.9      0.4      1.8     as        5
KuboIns6             166       126     815    0.6      0.4      1.0     41        6
Di                   B27       170     606    1.1      0.6      1.7     86       10
Kouar6               286       186     872    0.6      0.4      1.2     87        8
Katchari             161       go      260    0.6      0.8      0.9    8s         S
Subtotal INERA     2,146    2,868   4,564    7.2       7.9    15.0      es      68
IN£                  m101      19C      866    6.5      0.6     1.2      s6        7
Total bseline cotO   2,867    2,668   4,8066    7.7     8.5    16.2      5*      is
Physical contingenies   76     49      126    0.2      0.2      0.4     40        a
Price contilngnesle  564       9C      N69     1.9     0.8      2.2     20       14
Total Project cost    2,947    2,697   5,644    9.6     9.6    18.       49      116
3.37      Unit costs  are  based  on  December  1986  prices,  adjusted  to
mid-July 1987 -- the date of negotiations -- using an adjustment factor  of
3.3S  on  local  and  2.72  on  foreign  costs.   Costs  include   physical
contingencies of 102 on civil works, furniture, office and laboratory
equipment. The total allowance for physical contingencies amounts to 3S of
base costs. Price contingencies, which amount to 142 of base costs or 122
of total costs, have been calculated at the following annual percentage
rates:



- 30 -
Assumed Price Contingencies (in 2)
Costs          1987      1988       1989      1990      1991       1992
Foreign costs   3.0       1.0        1.0       1.0       3.5        3.5
Local costs     5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0       5.0        5.0
The price escalation  factors follow forecasts  of International  Inflation
for foreign supplied goods and services, and ostimated annual inflation  in
Burkina Faso for local costs. Total contingencies amount to approximately
12X of base costs and 102 of total project costs. Detailed cost estimates
are in Annexes 7, 8 and 9, and in the Project File.
3.38      The project represents a major  part of the Government's  overall
research programs in crops,  livestock and forestry.   Since reaearch is  a
long-term endeavor requiring continuous comnitment and, henct., funding,
even after external donors have left, the recurrent cost implications must
be fully understood and must be at levels affordable to Government.
International experience and statistics show that 0.82 of the agricultural
GDP Is a 'good' average spending level throughout the world. At an average
annual base cost over the first five years of about CFAF 1.0 billion, the
incremental costs on research  represent about 0.5X  of the projected  1986
agricultural GDP for Burkina. If one assumes that recurrent expenditures
for ongoing research activities are maintained at the 1986 level (INERA
CFAF 705 million and IRBET CFAF 63 million) by both Government and external
donors, and incremental recurrent expenditures (in 1986 constant prices)
resulting from this project are about CFAF 385 million, the total recurrent
expenditures would be about CFAF 1.2 billion, or 0.6% of the projected 1986
agricultural GDP. At the end of the project, Government would take charge
of all local salaries, Including those of contractual staff. Its share in
recurrent expenditures would thus increase from CPAF 425 million in 1986 to
CIAF 645 million at project completion.
3.39      In view of Government's tight financial situation, it is proposed
that its contribution be limited to salaries of incremental civil servants,
which constitute about five percent of the total costs. This is considered
acceptable since current. Government spending on agriculture and forestry
research represents about 302  of its total spending.   It would be  agreed
during negotiations that Government would maintain its allocations to INERA
and IRBET for research recurrent charges at least at their 1986 levels in
real terms, i.e. CFAF 200 million and CFAF 31 million, respectively.
3.40      The  French  and  Dutch  Governments  have  been  interested   in
cofinancing on a grant basis, with particular emphasis on the technical
assistance components of the proposals.   The amounts of cofinancing would
entail the cancellation of the equivalent amounts of the IDA credit.
Since specific financing plans have not yet been agreed. The financing plan
is thus presented only for IDA and Government as follows:



- 31 -
Financing Plan
US$ million        (%)
Government                              0.9              5
IDA                                    17.9             95
Total                             18.8            100
3.41      The proposed Credit of US$17.9  million would be on standard  IDA
terms, with 40 years maturity. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be
passed on by Government in grant form to INERA.
S.   Procurement  2/
3.42      Contract Review.  Bidding  documents for  contracts estimated  to
cost US$100,000 equivalent or more would be cleared with IDA before
tendering, and recommendations for contract awards would be submitted to
IDA for comments prior to award. This would cover about 902 of the total
estimated  value  of   civil works  and   goods  contracts.    Procurement
arrangements are summarized on page 33. Vehicles and equiDment. would be
bulked  to  the  extent  possible  and  procured  following   International
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Local manufacturers would be allowed a 15% margin of preference or the
applicable  customs  duty, whichever  is  lower.   Contracts  of  between
US$50,000  and  US$100,000 would   be  procured  through modified   local
competitive bidding (LCB).   Local bidding methods  and bid  administration
were reviewed by the appraisal mission and found to require certain
modifications in  order  to conform  to  Bank Guidelines.    Agreement was
reached during negotiations that local procurement procedures and documents
would be modified to incorporate improvements proposed and to test and
monitor mutually agreed standard procedures. Results of those tests would
be disseminated to the different local agencies involved in the bidding
process, not later than six weeks prior to credit effectiveness (scheduled
for 120 days after signature of the Development Credit Agreement).
Equipment whi"h cannot be suitably bulked and other small items such as
materials and supplies costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each, up to a
total limit of US$300,000, may be procured through competitive quotations
from at least three domestic suppliers whenever practicable. Foreign firms
would be allowed to participate in local competitive bidding.
3.43      Civil works would be procured  on the basis of local  competitive
bidding procedures, modified as discussed in para. 3.42 above. The
relatively small size (no contract is expected to be over US$0.4 million)
and dispersion over the country of civil works funded under the project
21   Details are likely to change if and when cofinancing arrangements are
made.



- 32 -
make It extremely unlikely that they would attract foreign bids except from
International firms  already  represented in  Burkina.   Bidding  documents
would provide alternative tendering for lots or for general contracts to
attract participation by large local contractors. Interested foreign firms
would be allowed to participate in the bidding.
3.44      Consultants with qualifications and experience acceptable to  IDA
would be selected for the various forms of technical assistance under the
project  in  accordance with  the  Bank's  'Guidelines  for  the  Use   of
Consultants".



- 33 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Project Item                             Procurement Method
TOTAL
ICB       LCB       OTHER      N.A.    COST I/
-------------- (US$ million ----------------
Civil Works                     -        3.8          -        -        3.8
(3.8)                         (3.8)
Vehicles                       1.5         -          -        -        1.5
(1.5)                                   (1.5)
Agricultural Equipment         0.7                    -         -       0.7
(0.7)       -          -                (0.7)
Office Equipment                -        0.1         0.1       -        0.2
(0.1)      (0.1)              (0.2)
Laboratory & Scientific
Equipment                      0.3        -           -        -        0.3
(0.3)                                   (0.3)
rurniture                       -        0.1          0.1      -        0.2
(0.1)       (0.1)             (0.2)
Technical Assistance
(iml. Audit)                   -                     3.2      -       3.2
(3.2)            (3.2)
Training                        -          -          1.2      -        1.2
(1.2)            (1.2)
Local Salaries &
Operating Costs                           -           0.8     4.8       5.6
(0.8)   (4.1)    (4.9)
PPF                             -         -           1.5      -        1.5
(1.5)            (1.5)
2.5       4.0         6.9      4.8     18.2
(2.5)     (4.0)        (6.9)   (4.1)   (17.5)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
IDA Credit
It/  Based on a five-year project implementation period.  As a resultt the
total cost figure shown in this schedule does not correspond to the
figure shown in the project cost summary table on page 29.



- 34 -
F.   Disbursements  31
3.45      The IDA cre4it would be disbursed over 8 112 years as follow:t
(a) 1002 of the costs of vehicles, including trucks,
motorcyles and mobylettes (SDR 1.1 million, or about US$ 1.4
million);
(b) 1001 of furniture, office and agricultural equipment (SDR
0.8 million, or about US$ 1.0 million);
(c)  1001  of  scientific  and  laboratory  equipment  (SDR  0.2
million, or US$0.2 million
(d) 1001 of the cost of construction and rehabilitation of civil
works:
(i)  Civil works associated with the livestock research
program at Katchari (SDR 0.5 million, or about US$0.6
million)
(iL) All other civil works (SDR 2.0 million, or about US$2.5
million)
(e)  1002 of expenditures on  consultant and specialist  services
including audit (SDR 2.3 million, or about US$3.0 million);
(f) 1002 of expenditures on staff training and training-related
travel (SDR 0.8 million or about US$ 1.1 million);
(g) 100S of salaries of contractual staff (other than category
(e)), vehicle, and all other operating costs, including
fertilizer, seeds and other inputs required for research
operations (SDR 3.3 million, or about US$4.2 million);
(h)  1001 of expenditures out of the Project Preparation Facility
(SDR 1.2 million, or about USS 1.5 million); and
(i)  an unallocated  amount  representing  physical  and  price
contingencies on the above (SDR 1.9, million or about US$2.4
million).
3.46      Disbursements   for   recurrent    operating   and    maintenance
expenditures under (g) above, for local training and for all contracts
valued at less than US$20,000, would be made against statements of
expenditure (SOE) certified by the Director of INERA and the INERA
31  Details are likely to change when cofinancing is finalized.



- 35 -
Accountant. Accounting procedures within INERA (and by INERA on behalf of
IRBET) have been strengthened with PPF funding and will be adequate to
support SOE for INERA. Documentation of expenditures would be retained by
INERA and made available for inspection by IDA during project  supervision.
Total disbursements against SOE would amount  to about US$ 4.5 million,  or
about 25S of  the IDA  credit amount.   Disbursements for  all other  civil
works, as well as consultants' services, fellowships, equipment and
vehicles, would  be  made  after receipt  of  standard  documentation.   An
estimated disbursement schedule for the project is shown in Annex 13.   The
closing date of the IDA credit would be December 31, 1993.
3.47      In order to expedite disbursements  and to ensure that funds  for
the project would be made available when needed, the Government will open a
special account (revolving fund) in a commercial bank in the name of INERA
with an authorized allocation of CFAP 160 million (US$750,000 equivalent)
representing  about  3  months'  expenditures.   The   account with   its
subaccounts for individual research stations will be used to finance the
local and  foreign cost  of  eligible expenditures  financed by  IDA.   The
special account will be replenished on a monthly basis or when the special
account is reduced by a third, whichever comes first. No direct payment
requests under the equivalent of $20,000 will be accepted by IDA.
Assurances on the above were obtained during negotiations.
B.   Environmental Imiact
3 48      The  project,  through  the   development  of  improved   farming
techniques, would have a beneficial effect on the environment. The overall
objectives of the project are to support research programs that improve
resource use and productivity by developing and testing new and improved
land, water, crop and livestock management practices. The more efficient
exchange of information with regional and international research centers
and improved access to up-to-date information by research and extension
workers (and eventually by the farmers) would all contribute to a better
appreciation of environmental constraints and potentials, and to a more
informed use of physical and human resources. Climatic conditions in
Burkina Faso allow for the use of solar power to provide the modest amounts
of energy needed at the research station sites more efficiently, at lower
cost, and without negative environmental side-effects.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management
4.1       General.  INERA and IRBET would have primary responsibility  for
implementing the project through their existing, albeit reorganized,
structures at headquarters and regional levels. Overall responsibility for
project coordination, planning, monitoring and reporting would rest with
the Director General of the CNRST (Annex 1-1). Initially, two divisions
would be established under the INERA directorate (Annex 1-2): a Research
Division (Division de Recherches) and Resources Division (Division des



- 36 -
Ressources), each under a Division Head. INERA's organizational structure
revolves around two multidisciplinary, systems-oriented programs, with a
number of commodity-oriented programs and sub-programs feeding into them
(para. 2.7). Each of the eight national research programs is headed by a
Program Coordinator, who is responsible for preparing the annual research
program and budget to be submitted to the Director of INERA by the Head of
the Research Division.   The Program Coordinators  are responsible for  the
technical and scientific aspects of the research program. Besides having
responsibility for their own research program, they would coordinate the
individual work programs of the other researchers participating in the
national program  they are  heading.   Administrative support  and  general
services (transport, machinery and equipment services, inputs, etc.) are
provided by Research Station Managers, who also report to the Director of
INERA, through the Head of the Resources Division.
4.2       The Head of  the Research Division would be assisted  bys (i)  a
Research-Extension Liaison Officer, responsible for contacts with the
extension service and the transfer of research results to extension and the
farming community; (ii) an Information and Training Officer responsible for
maintaining contacts with the national, regional and international research
community, for promoting the publication and coordination of research
results and for staff training; and (iii) a Documentalist/Librarian who
would be hired under the project, and who would be responsible for library
services and documentation systems.
4.3       The Read of the  Resource Division would be  assisted bys (i)  an
Accountant responsible for the financial management system and day-to-day
financial management, including the preparation of the annual draft budget
and regular financial reports; and (ii) a Material Resources Officer
responsible for acquisition and maintenance of all material resources of
the Institute, including those of the research stations; and who, for the
duration of the project, would work with the internationally-recruited
Senior Project Engineer (para. 3.5) and receive on-the-job training in all
aspects of  goods, works  and services  procurement etc.   The  Accountant,
Material Resources Officer, Information and Training Officer and the
Documentalist are incremental local positions funded under the project.
4.4       The Station Managers  will  be responsible  for  organizing  and
managing their research stations and for coordinating the national research
programs  and   those  of   other  national,   regional  or   international
organizations active at their facilities. At the regional stations of
Farako-Ba, Kamboinse and Saria, the Station Managers would be assisted by
(i) a Personnel Assistant, in charge of personnel matters, including
coordination of training programs for permanent and temporary technical and
administrative staff; (ii) a Material Resources Assistant, responsible  for
acquisition and maintenance of the materials, for day-to-day management of
the station's  finances, including  preparation of  the annual  budget  and
monthly financial  reports;  and  (iii)  a  farm  manager  responsible  for
coordination of  field work,  maintenance  of agricultural  equipment,  and
updating of field history records. At the regional stations of Kouare, Di
and Katchari, the Station Manager would be assisted by an Assistant Station



- 37 -
Manager only, who would be responsible for material resources, day-to-day
financial management and coordination of field work in close cooperation
with the Station Manager.
4.5       A Management Council (Conseil de Gestion, CG) will safeguard  the
adequacy of resources for agricultural research in relation to the agreed
research priorities; review and approve the annual research programs and
related budgets; and ensure the integrity of INERA's technical administra-
tive and financial management. A representative of the Ministry of Higher
Education and of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock would be
chairman and vice-chairman, respectively. Its membership would consist of
representatives from other concerned ministries, including the Ministry of
Financial Resources, the Ministry of Planning, and the Ministry of Rural
Affairs. The Director of INERA will be the Councill's Secretary.
4.6       The CG would  rely on the  advice from 2  standing committees,  a
Program and a  Resource Committee.   Program Committee  membership of  five
would be selected from development organizations, such as SOFITEX, UBhOCAM,
SOFIVA; research institutions, such as ICRISAT and IITA; and educational
institutions, such as IDR. The five-member Resource Committee would be
composed  of   representatives   of   organizations   with   expertise   in
administration and  finance.   The Director  of  INERA would  also  be  the
Secretary to these two committees. In his capacity of secretary to all
three bodies, the Director of INERA would prepare all documents for the CG
and would also convene meetings of the CG and its committees.
4.7       MINET's organ4zational structure (Annex  1-3) is described in  an
interministerial Raabo  from  the Ministries  of Higher Education   and
Scientific Research, Environment and Tourism, Agriculture and Livestock,
and National Education. At the head of IRBET is its Director, assisted by
an administrative and financial service; a programs servica; and a
documentation service. The institute is subdivided into four departments.
As in the case of INERA, a Management Council (Conseil de Gestion, CO)
would  safeguard  the  adequacy   of  resources  available  for   forestry,
biological  and  ecological  research   in  relation  to  agreed   research
priorities; review and approve annual research programs and budgets, and
ensure  the  integrity  of  IRBET's  overall management.  Membership  and
structure of IRBET's Management Council are also similar to those of INERA.
The Director of IRBET holds the Secretariat of the Council and its two
standing committees.
4.8       It was   agreed  during  negotiations,   as  a   condition   of
effectiveness, that the members of INERA's Management Council would have
been appointed.   Moreover, assurances  were obtained  during negotiations
that Government, mould not later than October 31, 1988, take all necessary
measures  to  implement  the   organizational and  staffing   arrangements
established by the INERA and IRBET statutes; that it would maintain at all
times the  agreed establishment  of  research staff;  consult with  IDA  in
advance on any proposed organizational changes; and keep key positions In
INERA and IRBET filled with qualified staff at all times.



- 38 -
B.   Proiect Coordination
4.9       The Director  General  of  CNRST  of MESRS would  have  overall
responsibility for liaison between the other ministries and agencies
involved in the project.   He would administer and monitor on a  permanent
basis the planning and implementation of agricultural research and ensure
that research programs are in line with the country's policy for scientific
research.
4.10      Research-extension linkages would  be strengthened,  particularly
at the working level, by (i) periodic training of extension subject matter
specialists ('techniciens specialises') by researchers, especially though
not exclusively, by staff of the RSP research program; and (ii) by
participation of extension staff in the annual review and planning meetings
(para. 4.11).
4.11      It was agreed during negotiations, to ensure close  coordination
among all those involved in agricultural research, that annual meetings
would be held not later than May 31 in each year, with IDA and other major
donors involved in agricultural research, to review results of the research
programs carried out by INERA/IRBET during the previous year and to discuss
work plans, research programs plus related costs, and financing plans
proposed for the following year. The organization of the meetings would be
the responsibility of the Head of Research Division of INERA, assisted by
the Research-Extension Liaison Officer.
4.12      To ensure that Burkina derives the maximum benefit from  research
carried out elsewhere and that national and international programs are
complementary, international research specialists would be invited to
participate in the in-depth mid-term review (para. 4.13).
C.   Imlementat ion ifSchedule
4.13      During thi first  six months of  the project, organizational and
staffing arrangements would be put into effect (para. 4.8); technical
assistance staff,   ncluding those  required for  short-term  consultancies
(e.g. laboratory an scientific equipment inventory (para. 3.25), and Solar
Energy Technology ( ara. 3.26),  whose terms of  reference would have  been
approved by IDA, would be hired and a detailed first-year staff training
program would be prepared by INERA's Information and Training Officer
(para. 3.20) assisted,  if necessary,  by a  short-term consultant.   Also,
under the responsibility of the Senior Project Engineer (para. 3.26),
during the first year of the project, designs of civil works would be
completed and upon their approval by IDA, the construction program would be
initiated.   Vehicle  and  equipment procurement would  be  planned   and
expedited in the same manner (Annex 10). During the first years of the
project, emphasis would be on staff training -- both in-service and formal
--  and   on  upgrading   and   rehabilitating  existing   facilities   and
infrastructure at Saria, Kamboinsd and Farako-Bi. Initial development of
the new locations (Di, Kouare and Katchari) would take place during the
second half  of the  project implementation  period.  Annual  review  and



- 39 -
research planning meetings (para. 4.11) would play an important role in the
monitoring and evaluation of research programs and would provide unique
opportunities for research and extension staff and the donor community to
exchange views and coordinate activities and workprograms, including those
of the national research system, with those of international research
institutes. A major review of project progress and research program
implementation would be held during the third year of the project (not
later than June 30, 1992). This would be an external review conducted with
the assistance of one or two international research specialists invited to
make specific observations and recommendations on Burkina's agricultural
(including livestock and forestry) research programs in the light of the
project's objectives and targets as well as long-term goals. It was agreed
during negotiations  that   this  mid-term  review  would  also   examine
organizational and institutional arrangements for agricultural, livestock
and forestry research, comment upon the appropriateness of the existing
arrangements and prepare specific alternative proposals if necessary.   The
findings and recommendations of the mid-term review would be sent to IDA
for its review and comments.
Financial Control. Audit, and Reporting
4.14      In  order  to  better  equip   INERA  to handle  its   increased
responsibility, the project would strengthen INERA's Resources Division by
(a) developing a new financial management and information system suited for
computerization; and (b) financing a chief accountant and other support
staff. The new accounting system will enable INERA to monitor and control
execution of research programs by research station, by program, by
operation and  by  source  of  financing.   Computerization  would  further
facilitate implementation of such a system. In addition, the system would
be utilized for personnel management (including monitoring the staff
training program) and inventory control. Consultants have already been
hired with PPF financing for a contract covering development of the
management system and its software, installation of materials, and training
of local staff.   Assurances were obtained  during negotiations that  INERA
would  establish  and  maintain  separate   project-related  accounts   in
accordance with sound and accepted accounting principles and practices.
4.15      INERA's project-related accounts would be audited annually during
project implementation by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and
financed by the Project. Audited financial statements and reports, of such
scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably request, will be submitted
to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The auditor's
report will include a statement on the adequacy of the accounting system
and internal controls and on whether or nit IDA funds have been used for
their intended purposes. The report will also confirm that summary SOEs
submitted as justification for disbursement under category (g) of para.
3.45 correctly reflect detailed records kept by INERA. Assurances on the
above were obtained during negotiations.
4.16      INEURA would  ensure  adequate  overall  technical  and  financial
supervision of project works and procurement. It would prepare the annual



- 40 -
work program and budget with details on individual research programs,
training, coordination of research and extension activities and of the
national  and  other  research   programs,  procurement  and  civil   works
construction  planned  for   the  coming year.    It was  agreed   during
negotiations that IDA approval of detailed construction and rehabilitation
plans for INERA's research stations and headquarters' offices, and IRBET's
headquarters' offices would be obtained prior to disbursement of funds for
civil works.
4.17      The  Director  of   INERA would  be   responsible  for   issuing
semi-annual progress reports, showing budgeted and actual expenditures,
progress achieved in construction, procurement, staff training -- including
the training of extension staff by researchers -- and details on research
programs and  results.   He would  also  issue  a  report  containing  the
conclusions and recommendations of the annual research program review and
planning meetings (para. 4.11). This would be accompanied by INERA and
IRBET's joint draft work programs and budgets for each research program for
the following year, with details on staff deployment, training plans, civil
works construction and  procurement planned  for the year.   Copies of  the
reports would be sent to IDA not later than May 15 in each year so as to
enable the Association to make its comments to INERA's CG during its review
of the annual research programs and related budgets. The Senior Project
Engineer would  submit  to the  Director  of  INERA, vith  copies  to  IDA,
quarterly progress reports on civil works construction and equipment
purchases, and including updated cost figures and projections. Within one
year of the credit closing date, INERA would be responsible for preparing a
project completion report which  would sumarize the project's  performance
and evaluate lessons learned.   Assurances on all  the above were  obtained
during negotiations.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   General
5.1       The project would contribute to  the development of the  research
and research management capacity of INERA and IRBET, and to the development
of new and improved techniques for the integration of crops, livestock and
forestry into self-sustaining farming systems. It would give particular
attention to adapting this technology to farmers' needs and means, and to
the speedy  transfer  of research  findings  to them.   The  project would
improve the technical skills of scientists and technicians engaged in
agricultural research, and would also, through the proposed training
programs,  accelerate   the   replacement  of   internationally   recruited
researchers by  Burkinabe nationals.   Finally, through  joint  workprogram
review and planning, the project would help improve linkages with IARCs
(para. 4.11-4.12), strengthen linkages with the agricultural extension
service of MAE, and Improve the quality and relevance of the training
provided by research staff to extension workers and of technical advice to
the farming community.



- 41 -
B.   Main Benefits
5.2       A wide spectrum of farmers and livestock owners stands to benefit
from the development and dissemination of new technologies. Planning and
coordination of the national research programs in collaboration with
international research institutions, and improved linkages between research
and extension are expected to lead to more efficient use of scarce human
and financial resources and to increase the impact of other investments in
the agriculture and rural sectors. The project is also designed to address
the country's increasingly serious problems of environmental degradation
and decreasing productivity. Through the funding of technical assistance
and training programs, it would address the key problems of lack of
research planning and management capacity and the shortage of technical
skills and experience among local research staff.
5.3       Because of  the  difficulty  of quantifying  the  benefits  of  a
research project, no attempts have been made to compute an economic rate of
return. Assuming an investment period of 5 years, total project base costs
of CFAF 4.9 billion represent an average annual increase in expenditures
for research of  about 0.52  of the  projected 1986  agricultural GDP.   An
increase in agricultura' GDP of about 0.4X (CFAF 0.76 billion) per year
between 1993 and 2013 would be sufficient to achieve an economic rate of
return of 10, reflecting the country's opportunity cost of capital.
C.  Prolect Risks
5.4       As with  all  such  projects, there  is  necessarily  uncertainty
concerning the eventual  impact of  the research programs  and, hence,  the
precise project benefits.  One  potential risk resides  in the adequacy  of
the linkages  between  research  and  extension  services.   However,  good
working relationships  already  exist  at headquarters  and  in  the  field
between  these   two  technical   branches  of   government.   The   direct
participation of research staff in the training of extension workers, the
representation of NESRS and MAE on INERA's Management Council (CG), and the
participation of extension staff in research planning would all help lessen
the risk and further strengthen research-extension linkages. Other risks
are those inherent in all research projects, namely difficulties in
obtaining adequate staff and funds. These risks are considered relatively
small, however, in the case of Burkina, where in recent years the
Government has  shown  a  strong commitment  to  research.   Moreover,  the
project's technical assistance and training components would help minimize
those risks, and project design has aimed at minimizing incremental
recurrent cost implications for the Government.



- 42 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1       Assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations that  it
woulds
(a) prepare and furnish to IDA for review a livestock production
research  program  with   detailed  investment   proposals,   by
September 30, 1989 (para. 3.12);
(b) INERA would have employed by November 30, 1988 a locally
recruited Information and Training Officer with qualifications
acceptable to IDA (para. 3.20);
(c) prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and
comments: (i) by December 31, 1988, a draft first year's training
program for INERA and IRBET staff to be implemented not later
than May 31, 1989; and (ii) by May 31, in each year thereafter, a
detailed training program for the following year (para. 3.20);
(d) cause all staff having received training abroad financed under
the Project to remain in their assignments for a period of at
least 5 years after completion of such training (para. 3.20);
(e) prepare and furnish to IDA for review a detailed scientific and
laboratory equipment purchase program with cost estimates for
INERA, by January 31, 1989 (para. 3.25);
(f) maintain recurrent budget allocations to INERA and IRBET at a
minimum  level  of  CFAF  200  million  and CYAP  31  million,
respectively (para. 3.39);
(g) implement, not later than October 31, 1988 the organizational and
staffing arrangements established by INERA and IRBET Statutes
(para. 4.8);
(h) maintain the agreed establishment of research staff, agree with
IDA in advance on any proposed changes and keep key positions In
INEUA and IRBET filled with qualified staff at all times (para.
4.8);
ti) not later than May 31 each year, hold annual meetings with IDA
and  other major  donors  participating  in  the  financing   of
agricultural research, to review results of the research programs
carried out by INERA/IRBET during the previous year and to
discuss work programs, costs and financing plans proposed for
the following year (para. 4.11);
(j) conduct not later than June 30, 1992 and present to IDA for its
review and coments the findings and recommendations of a
mid-term review of project progress and of the appropriateness of



- 43 -
organizational and institutional arrangements for agricultural,
livestock and forestry research (para. 4.13);
(k) submit to IDA audited financial statements and reports of such
scope and detail as IDA may reasonably request, prepared by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, within six months of the
close of each financial year (para. 4.15);
(1) submit to IDA semi-annual progress reports including budgeted and
actual expenditures, progress achieved in the execution of the
project, and a description of research programs and results
(para. 4.17);
(m) submit to IDA, by May 15 in each year, INEURA and IRBET's joint
draft research programs and budgets for the Immediately following
year (para. 4.17);
6.2       Conditions of effectiveness would bes
(a) that an internationally recruited Research Management specialist
had been employed to assist the Director of INERA, under terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 3.24).
(b) the Government would have formally attributed to MESRS legal
tenancy ('titre de jouissance") of the land assigned to INERA and
IRBET for the implementation of the construction program (para.
3 27);
(c) appointment of the members of INERA's Management Council (Conseil
de Gestion) (para. 4.8).,
6.3       Conditions of disbursement would bes
(a) IDA approval of a livestock research program with detailed
investment  proposals  prior   to  disbursement   of  funds   for
program-related civil works construction at Katchari (para.
3.12).
(b) IDA approval of a detailed scientific and laboratory equipment
purchase program and cost estimates prior to disbursement of
funds for this category of equipment (para. 3.25);
(e) IDA approval of detailed construction and rehabilitation plans
for INERA's research stations and headquarters' offices, and
IRBET's headquarters'offices prior to disbursement of funds for
civil works (para. 4.16);
6.4       With the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable
for a credit of SDR 14.1 million to the Government of Burkina Faso on
standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



- 44 -
6.4      With the above asurances and conditions, the project to sultable
for a credit of SDR 14.1 maillion to the Government of Burkina Faso on
stadard tDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



AME  1-1
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT/PROJET DE RECHERCHES AGRICOLES
Rhe Locdbn d INERA and IRBET within the MnhW of Higher Educotbn and
ScbreUc Rsarch (MESRS)/ Podlon hi&achlque de riNERA et de rlRBET au sein du MESRS
PSlEW OF ROMA FAS
PRIEST DE WRKN FA1
ADMMSTA1IV COUNWaoa  uNNeRST OF
CONSM      ~~OUACGADOUGOW.
!1---~~~~~~~~WDWWY                                     UNIM ..SR
CNMIS        DWANTKZDOUA,ADOUGOUj
_  - ---'  _            ~~~~~~OFP>: 
sc- SClENIUIC_RECIORATi
=A   . =HESCOMMM
COIITIN6   ,/                   9~~O"MW
RgSEAQCH - "UMS
OREM COD: WA)'       ::oms!'
OISMESM        DOE GeSIIN^WB
WoidM BaJk-31070:4



- 46-                            ANNEX 1-2
Ii, 
,1~~~~~~~~
~rX 



47 -       ~~~~ANNE 1-3
'S#;S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ii~~~~~~~~ pi



BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
INERA Professional Staff Position by Program
(December 1986)
TABLE 1 - PROGRAMEs: RSP
?RAR OF             QUALIFICATION               SPECIALIZATION                REMARKS
ENTRY
1972                Doct. 3e cycle              ag. economist                 CP coton(25S) (Farako-B;)
1978                IDR                         agronomist                    (Farako-Ba)
1980                M. Sc.                      ag. economist                 Chef de Programme
(Kemboinso)
1985                IDR                         aS. economist                 (Kamboins)
1986                I de Tech DR                agronomist                    (Farako-Bi)                               5
1986                IDRIE                       sootechnician                 (Kamboins;)
Present headquarterss   Kamboinsi
Future hesdquarterss    Kamboinse, with a second team to be stationed at Farako-Bl
Notes:
(1) Percentages (in parentheses) indicate proportion of the researcher's time spent on the program concerned
(2) CP - Chef de Prograume (Program Coordinator)
(3) CS - Chef de Station (Station Manager)
II!



BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
INERA Professional Staff Position by Program
(December 1986)
TABLE 2 -  PROGRAMEs  ESFIMA
YEAR OF                   QUALIFICATION                      SPECIALIZATION                      RENARKS
slmn
1978                     DEA                                 soil sclentist (fert.)              Chef de Progri_
(Farako-Ba)
1979                     DEA                                 soil sclentist (fert.)              paid by fertilizer
project (Kamboneis)
1980                     Ing. Agronome                       agronomist                          CS (DI)
1981                      IDR                                agrometeor. /lirrig.                 (Farako-Bi)
1982                     DEA                                 soil scientist                       (Saris)
1983                     IDR                                 soil scientist (fert.)              paid by fertilizer project
(Sarla)
1985                      IDR                                soil physicist                       (Saria)
1985                      IDR                                agronomist(8orghlml                 732 (Farako-31)
silletIbreeder)
1986                      I de Tech. DR                      agronomist                          paid by fertilizer
(fertilizer)                        project (Kamboinse)
1986                      tsoil scientist                                                        paid by fertilizer
(fertilizer)                        project (Saris)
1982                     DEU                                 soil scientist                      CP Maraichires; 252
(Farako-B;)
1979                     Doct. 3; cycle                      microbiologist                      CS Sarial  252
Present headquarter.s Farako-B;
Future headquarters    Sari&
'U



BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
INERA Professional Staff Position by Progrm
(December 1986)
TABUL 3 - PROCRAIUE: PRODUCTION ANIHALES
YEAR OF   QUALIFICATION           SPECIALIZATION                       EMARKS
mTY
1978      Doet. 3e cycle          ag. economist                        Chef de Prograe a.i.
(Ouagadougou)
1981      IDRIE                   agrostologist                        (Farako-Bi)
1982      Doct. 3e cycle          biochemist                           (Faraka-B;)
1985      IDRIE                   zootechnician                        (KUbo@inse)
1985      Doet. Vet.              veterinarian                         CS (Katchari) stationed
at Kamboins; and to be
relocated to Katchari
In PY 4
1986      IDR/E                   xootechnician                        (Farako-Ba)
Present headquarters: Siege (Ouagadougou)
Future headquarters:   Katchari (year 4)



BURKDa FASO
AGRICULTtURAL hESEAMC  R.C
DIM P   tonal Stff Positio   PbNga
TALE 4 - PROGRAMME: SoMA
YEAR OF      QUALIFICATION           SPECIALIZATION           REMARKS
1975         Ph. D.                  brooder (sorghum)        Chef do Programme
1977         Doct. 3e cycle          phytopathologist         252 (Farako-Bi)
1978         Doct. 3e cycle          phytopathologist         751 (Kamboisse)
1978         DEA                     breeder (-Asia)          (Kambolsse)
1979         Doct. 3e cycle          breeder (millet)         (Kamboinse)
1980         Doct. 3e cycle          entomologist             501 (Rombol1sc)
1981         Doct. 3e cycle          entomologist             (Farako-Bi)
1983         IDR                     breeder (mlle t)         (Sar ia
1985         Doct. d'Etat            virologlst               752 (mbo mns-)
1986         IDR                     breeder (sise.)          (Fars4.Ba)
1986         t                       phytopathologlst         (Far k  B;)
Present headquarterss  Farako-Bi
Future headquarter.:  Farako-Bi, with second unit at Ksmboinza  i



BURIKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Ill Profssional Staff Position by Prgram
(December 1986)
TABLS 5 - PROGRA:
YSAR OF      QUALMIFCATION          SPCIALZATIOlI             SRiS
1971         Doct. 3e cycle         breeder (peanut)        Chef de Programme
(Kamboinsi)
1976         B. Sc.                 agronomst               CS (Niavngloko)
1977         M. Sc.                 breeder (coupea)        CS (KeWboiun;)
1978         Doct. 3- cycle         phytopatbologist        25S  (Kmmboinsb )
1979         Doct. 3c cycle         microbiologist          CS (Sa*1 )
1979         M. Sc.                 breader (peanut)        not identified in
progrm "1ft
1980         Doct. 3- cyle         entomologist            50S (Kmboius;)
1985         Doct. d'Etat           Virologist              252 (Kambolns;)
1986         I                      breeder (peanut)         (Farako-3i)
1986         1                      entomologist             (Kamboius0)
Present beadquarterss temboinsi
Future headquarters:  Rouare (as of third yoar), with second unit at gamboinsi
El



BUtKIKlA FASO
AGRICULTURL RSEARCH PROJECT
IER Profesional Staff Position by Program
(Decmbor 1986)
TABLE 6   PROGRA_ i  CULTURES MRAICIES
YEAR OF                QUALIFICATION                              onBCIALIZA?IN1
1982                  DPE                              soil scientist (fart.)           Chef do Progra_m
(Farako-B)
1982                   IDP                             4rroacmLt                        Cs zoua1252)
(Kmubo=4
1982                   DUE                             agronomst                         (arako-3)
1980                   Woet. 3e cycle                   grosst                           CS T?eako-31 (SO)
Present         Ir FParako-B
Ftture headquartoers    Di



BUmKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Il BR  Professioal Staff Positioa by Program
(December 1986)
TABLE 7 - PROGRA: JIZ
YEAR OF                 QOALFICATIOU                    SPBCIALZATON 8ICMI
1977                    Doct. 3; cycle                   phytopathologist                   S02 (Farcao-si)
1980                    Ing. Agron.                      bredr (rice)                      Chef de Progrm,
(Frarako-Bi)
1982                    IDR                              agron=mist (sed prod.)             (Farako-lB)
1985                    in                               entomlogist                        (Farako-la)
1978                    DEA                              coil scientist (fort.)             (Farako-B) 
Present heaquarterst   Farako-B3
Future headquarterss    Farako-la
3!



BURKIKA PASO
AGRICULTURAL REISERC PIOJECT
IZM    Professional Staff Position by Program
(December 1986)
TABLE 8 - POGRAUK: COTO=
TElRf                   quIFICATion                       SPCCIAU&TIO  CIMZ^I
1972                    Weot. 30 Cycle                    ag. ecomit                        Chf  . d rgr
(Fareko-R")
1982                    I. d Tech. DRl                    entlogot                           (Pardlo;)
1983                    I. de Tech. DR                    breeder (cotton)                  (Farako-U)
1985                    IDR                               .grnomst                          252 (Yazokl;)
Present headquarterss   Farako-B&
1uture headquarters:    1arako-B;
I!1



- 56 -
ANNE 2
Table 9
AGRICI)URAL RESEARCH PROJECT
TABLE 9 - EXPATRIATE REEAR   STAFF BY PROIAM
-c        10b6)
SPECIAUZATION                 MM             gym         _A ITONI                        EFFECT!  I TIE
1.  Forming Systms ArSo.    lt     CIRAD          RSP/Cotton             Kamboina                  19
2.  Agricultural Ecommist          SAFORAD        RSP                    Kwnboln*6                 19
S.  Animal Production              SAFORAD        RSP                    KmmboltA                  196
4.  Pedology                       SAPONtD        RSP                    Kambolnet                 196
S.  Agrlcultural Eonomlot          SAFOWRA        RSP                    Farako-BI                 lDO
6.  Agronomlit (Soils)             elRmD          RSP/Cotton             Far ko-                   1OO
7.  Agronomist                     CIAD           RIP/ESpFiA             FarakoIB                 186
6.  Irurgatlon Engineer            FA0 1/         EIFIM                 Fhrako-BI                  1861
0.   Soll f rtlity                 ChAD           ESPMA                  Slar 2is
le. Anliml Production              ChAD           Animal Producilon      Sarut                     25x
11. Phytopathologist (leatrust)   CIRAD           Oilseed Crop           Farako-Si (Niangoloko)   196S
12. Agrono mlt                     ChAD           01 Ieod Crop           Kamboln s                 i0
18. Msize breeder                  ChEAP          CreIas                 f rako-SI                 loS
14.  Sorghum breeder               CIRED          Ceroelo                Soria                     1865
15. Vegetable breeder              CADP           Vegetable/Frult Crope Farako-SI                  -
18. Cotton breder                  CDRUD          Cotton                 Fnrako-UI                low
17.  Eeology                       FAC            2REET                  Ousgadouoou              196
18. Forestry                       CDeAP          INSET                  Ouagadougou              196
19. Forestry                       ChEAP          INIET                  Ouagadougou              100X
j./ Continuation of position (I.e. of CERC2 progrm) still under consideortlon In December 1986



- 57 -
BURXNA PASO
AGRICULTURAL REARCH  ROJECT
IRBIT Professional Staff by Program
(D,cember 1986)
YTAR OF       QUALIFICATION            SPECIALIZATIO      N RIMAIS
ENTRY
1969          DU&                      Botanist
1976          1EA                      OrnAthologist
1976          Doct. 3" cycle           scologist
1979          Ph. D.                   Ecologist            Director
1979          MaWtriso                 Zoologist
1981          Doct. 3; cycle           iydrobiologist
1983          K;trise                  Entomologist
1986          Ing. Trvx                Jorestry scientist
1986          IDR/S                    Anjmal bubandry



- 58 -
AN=E 4
IURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
IERA Funding by Source of Funds (1980-1985)
(CFAF 103)
1980      1981     1982      1983        1984      1985
Government */
Counterpart
fund fors
IRAT       60,200    77,300   95,350   98,760      88,242    88,240
IRCT       27,335    33,550   37,400   37,396      33,391    33,391
1R5O       26,800    30,100   35,650      -        30,714    30,714
CERCI      31,790    27,300   34,t50   35,000      35,250    35,000
Others       0         0         0        0          0        23,000
Subtotal       146.125   168.250  203.150  171.156    187.596   210.34S
(Government)
Franc.
IRAT      112,300   134,750  158,500  184,100    199,250
IRCT       28,000    34,500   47,000   58,8S0      63,250    (NIA)
11O       28,000    31,700   36,150      -        40*420
Subtotal       168.300   200.950  241.650  242.950    302.920
Franec
C BCI          244,252   217,210  308,568  230,339 ki 222,373 cl 279,033 di
ISAU/FED          -        -         1,710    7,324     10,451      12,873
IFAD              -        -          -        -          -         96,444
Subtotal       412.552   418.160  551.928  480.613    535.744
(Foreign)
TOTAL          558.677   586.410  755.078 .651.769    723.340
Sources INERA, December 1986
at excluding civil servants' salaries.
kl converted to CFAF at CFAF 3811US$.
cl  converted to CFAF at CFAJ 4371US$.
di converted to CFAF at CFAF 450/US$.



- 59 -
ANNDX S
BURKINA PASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
INERA
Capital snd Recurrent Budgets for Agricultural Research (1986)
(CPA? 106)
Capital expenditures
Government                              50  a/
CIRADIIRAT                               4 k'
CIRAD technical assistance             300  el
CERCI                                  155  di
IhAD                                    77  41
Total                                  586
Recurrent exanditure
Government recurrent budget            199 e1
Government civil servants salaries     167  f/
CIRAD                                   67
CERCI                                  157  gI
IhAD                                    32  1
INSAID                                  70
Others                                  13
Total                                  705
GRAND TOTAL                          1.291
8/ equipment and construction.
b/ vehicles.
c/  assuming that the costs of technical assistance remained the same as in
1984 (1985 data not available).
d1 expatriate salaries, equipment, vehicles and training, converted from
US dollars to CPAF at an exchange rate of CFAF 3451US$.
el including salaries for contractual permanent personnel.
f/ estimated, based on 53 researchers at an average annual salary of
CFAF 2.4 million per person and 40 others at an average annual salary
of CPAF 1 million.
gI convorted from US dollars to CPA? at an exchange rate of CFAF 345lUSS.



- 60 -
BURKINA PASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Capital and Recurrent Budgets for Forestry Research (1986)
(CFAF 106)
Ecosystem     Ecosystem      Forestry   Total
Research      Management    Research
Capital expenditures -
= civil works, vehicles    0.7             8.9           3.5       13.1
and equipment
= technical asslstance
and trainig             16.0            30.1          57.0      103.1
subtotal            16.7            39.0          60S5      116.2
Recurrent expenditures
- personnel               25.0             7.3           9.4       41.7
- others                   4.3             7.2           9.6       21.1
subtotal            29.3            14.5          19.0       62.8
TOTAL               46.0            53.5          79.5      179.0
Source of financing
-GoverAment a/            30.0             2.4          27.0       59.4
-UNSO                       -             27.1            -        27.1
-FAC bI                   16.0            24.0            -        40.0
-CIRAD (CTFT) el            -               -           52.5       52.5
a/ operating budget 1986:                                5  million CFAF
*sti=ated salaries paid by
Gove nmentI                                         27.4 million
counterpart (Government) funds managed by CTFTs      27 million CFAF
hi estimated cost of French technical
assistance.
{/ estlm.ted French counterpart funds
for forestry research by CTFT.



..__ .___............ _........ ..........  ...........  ........... ......... 
1I10     P"out C    "u       b       9 1w 0       1    "          06 '
s ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ 5                 tuas        150        Is        un          m .00
Iau Simi                       s.43    4K5.199    I  405 ton     U        tk. ito    t 01o.1       6I124
r,uuw-aa tm   ts                          a lit I93       t5    i ssi  102.412    "5.46            t2 14S
u"s                             g.m        sos. its    assO       sue.       .aur mS:. In            t.aw
VItlI11                       t114.435      43.361     45. 1`      I in   45. 40      314.810       tn0o
of                              IL 1it    145.15       41.215     a,.,    45.us        ULM           I.3O
Room                            23.101    117.0ft    1015,=       926    3525          32n1          1241
utalmia                          14,911          -     24 to      MO02   tatu          n     a         a
5- -ete I 131t 23                             3.4    U4513          1f.6   43a4         4 4S           150t
L  1511                            22. 15      00.255      M5M        St.505   113,20     355.441       1. 
r.t.t sasum    r.      -     .. . irs. 1  _..  _..   _  au....... . i .u..  _
Total WttiltO                     lt¢0 .tZ 0 INIST11                  ,"1    1,W    *.ULMtS              lXt9
Phniyai  tatimprein               IL3.3       4.04?      3302       2I.25        144     124.111         41*
pu-to  Cwttomgpil                 31.2'I t 56           I* 52       1.2   115tl2l    4*1.S43           1.510
aauus.uuua agaumes.*u.          u suu.  ... . ..n   ....  ........_ .   .......s... 
ftoslgp luom                     36553    54 4         .501101    463,614  315.30   2.#lT31.          5."1I
......... ............ . .               ......   _...  ...              .... - .-    .............. .
Iy 1, toltt nuta
0I



- 62 -
FEhE
Prolects Cost b6 Pro.t.. W Y...
(cPAP 10)
PMz   - Somiltl ce C J !/                                                   Y          n          r
RV                                19.6          70.           a.0          110.9        U.8         468.8
ESFIMA                             73.6         IS.8          00.1          n2.9        02.8        416.4
Comal                             44.0          $8.2          64.           67.2        50.8        172.5
01 _sed Crop.                      84.          14.9          87.1          41.4        19.0        153.2
cetteon                           4.2           14.2         21.9           17.3        25.9        143.6
Rice                               0.8           0.2          21.8          11.0         5.5         19.8
Voeebble & Frulit                  2.0           6.4          28.2          22.1        10.6         78.1
Aeleel Producilon                 44.6          40.0            -           21.2         5.5        110.5
Sub-Total Program.               4.1         "11.0           2.0         807.4       8M5.9      1,696.1
O3ered Cost kl                  1,J2.4         790.0         073.4         406.4       101.       8,14.4
Total Be" Co                    1,07.5        I,".         1,m.            384.0       511.0      4,89t6
Phbyslal Cootimge.cl.e             19.0          4t.0         35.           22:          1.0        125.0
Price Contln_1i.                   $11.0         82.0        117.0         1           I0 111.0     471.0
Total Pojctb Costd            1,427.0       1,21.9       1,119.0       1,916.0       018.       6,456.0
2.1 Pcogr.m-spcl4ic vehicls, tlehatoel m   ce, bloost persoeel, and VbIecl/r.e.rch oprating cost.
k AllI otmer cosote which a not prom spcfic, such *"n  eivil works, qulpmet, furnltur, trining un
spTAO
Septme 1367



Sinsp loasuas by low
Ipta p060
ma ~   ~ ~ | tu* me        mi        un       i..           
..a.,8.,s.g.agea..aa 88m3138880 8888883883 sum. .  . . ..... . . ......... ... 
1. I0n31 c1t3
*. ............ 
It -I 31I  tiA310019311                    1.130    30501      34343   1s1il6                 314603   21.0    101.216
"th0sI                                         *    W2. an      41.33                          MM 3. 42  LO      41.36
.t 6131 641111t l                             6.8O    4.6"    31             tI141    133          0.611   11.    14L6
i1311 miet01                             133114M        164        334 m41 Mn   -              1.1   17.3  '11.13t
1*1.t.  1451051                            11.0    "It. 11        3016      33.164      641, 811.3  n.o 1.6   144
911111141 lUWAVA                           7. M        .636     30.66M      1,631       M      MM16    16.       31.1134
_ ,,*, ~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ..... ..........
.-Tletal USII31II                                                                                         "1        243
asmaucgt 16341a            M131           3.44      21 3        13336 M      .33    .33       2112.in   11.6    4LO443
~~~~~~~~~~~...... ...... ...                     .       --.-----
-tWlttSI                                  314ttt411     I4S t43.50         33.1 tSt           200,41 M    .6       6O4
103163163 13331331113331                  24. 113    15.133     5,438      413 316 9m.343    22,0 3t m7.1    131.13
6. 11931                        ~~~~~~~     ~~47.3M36 111 4M        37  4.     3       13.1361   11.6   361,110
.....      ..... ...... .........._ .  _... . .. ....... _.............. .....   .
ptet el 13 3 A ISt       .i4t01    6"1. M                           I3t  M    1,3 U   31641M    M.130.3      .1  W.3
FOISS.t I -ivssvl                        2tJ. SLSI             D.U -U  5ta7tZ.43 2                     SIA    215.
RlmI           1 mm                       336.01     3 t10 11.13           M431          -    I4.44100.0   0234a#e
........................ .............................._ .  _.  ---  -- _._ ------....
Pib SSUtal "Milo  UII3CUIII012                        13123    31614       32L.33   1.2131    133.331    0.0           0 3 
6  13*3K  IIFI6IIIU   1113                   11.1        331       0.6        0.1136  1    4134036   11.8    333.3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   ........ ............ .
to.a           CO1  3    STS1311P1333          161       3.m        4.3 311             3.3. "36. 313  434   203,360
3. 16311                         21.633~~~~~I oi  $11.63   11.33        2133   13.6303    3*311   11.0    3013
ttasl  1    toiu                         23t1tt 40   14.331    32481    31.H11   34.34    m.33.          2.6    3n6
W;;....  ;;... ;...... .......... ..-4. ....... ...... . . ... ... _0
Total  81111  Pmis3.1341 t.01.60  301113                                      364.1   133.33.0  4 I.36.8     121to   1.
Peltons w     33quse1.    f                  31.83      62.9633    t  43661  313O6 M   30ML1     413.438  1I.#    31.46                                                                    I
*    rts64    as                          3.411. 333  3.'23  316s?    ST .t .4 1. 3 13   3113    4146N     434  3 .   .    t0.33
Uw  3ga 1.p                                  6.643    214.114    10. 30?   46T.114  i3t.100  2.61.I63    0.0    10.
l              SI. 3631  1523
~~~~~~~~~..  ;:                        .. ;.................. ........ .... ... .. . ......
l  Olllslt  CotsilnStt                        t$          .t       tff,4 SOL   319.25n.2e SnI.I I. .618 MS         35 e
fToAZtal  ,ui  CUS.3.8,41                                 .,,,412,l.,0,,,,t9.tt!_.73   KS1  tSII, 4.8L    ItS  . ".8 ",
X*tetol tOti PM%                             mml        tff.6"    u1.on       KI       U,t    I,2M    $9.    XSB.3
ftt  Can2t  *rem"                             St.t3      SLO         fIS      SS    11 - M          t 411.4    W      noL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.......... .. . ..... ........ ....                                                 -----
ttlP ttttT MIa                                                  I.M884tt1g0". ^" a   a.016 ." M M511 4a"4 %rXBIo
ftNttS Inm4                                149,643tAt  S4LIS4 n.X. lff 4t&61 Moam   te     t 0w l.=   tt.0   tX.
W,tW      ..f,2B-------------------   -ts  -E ------illllt  -t "    -- - --A  - -t ------------- -" -t -tx  -------- -



otlZ *8*| " -|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s'sF N*ess ..ss*ssss $"O St* 809  *a*s.ms ag$ses *-$sssusts
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j ---- Ojzj- e                                  e   it  VW1  t t'llb  M'PA  t Olt                                            so-GPzv s"a
v~~~~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a tgo t    nz                                                   9st    Au log     o ot      Us lu                          -1-rOA  1 1"q
IIt     n 5i  1 63   0665   01+s               1560  ursqm I  Ws ee    t                           33S1303 hlNUil I61
a t          1         ta   at 115    011S  m101        AU uut    :sola                             m.;a'1 a 11 3 m*ld1
__,_  __...... _____ ______ ____ ______ .......... .. __j  --  ______ ------______---
9        a         t o     A n     Us>         u s   10        911 o 0n 1 o                      et     lio n. . 8 I8S m 1
11      so           1                    us its    us6101    *1016  C6IO  t  3131131   5W131 2IMIU03 101  ta I
I                  us I*1t  01     6IV AIP  00l0ct   119.S5                   SLNIMIU1OUUlUU I       3 sd 1   I
o                  CT- U          t5  -   tu    6U'm  - 36         It" "5  n  111    @ 5                101S
.... ......  ... ... . ___.... _._ ..... .......... _ .......... _... __._....
is                                 W's . 'Wis    -              WM6                13t310  -WM01 lIinmU1d
*      *           n6     *      36       n e u1    -         sn0015            USUUSSoUIO  1520  1IUSGSS
0                    let$                  us            nlvmssmi imi~~~~~~~~~~~~13 13113O1333I
01       1 U1   UIt Is  O t                19 1s10t  "1CU          "alms 0145l0  Ilixl0 11613  1
.- -- - .-- ........  ---- .............. .... .......  .. .. . -.-. . ... 
£  06         001.6~o Is     I *I  on  13 I"5    01001    1051 Ws                              US*@1.91
5       0t 1       1*      100    -       61011    610116    -                          1      11115 1031
6       U          111    011GU                                                                                *J 30111   0631   101  1311 111 Osam
V                                                                                St      u          us's  40111    us      In'tt       MV011   ciltt uPIO  nel "ISw  tn                         s
*                                                                                                    *  I   as  ou  n   "W  no  Dii
.4                                                                              66         uSI   0l1  on                  1511111u 0l m00M     511               365t      3 n31o1t1u     11w60sm
wimumm 3113s 1
I  56     Awl    a                          Oulu0    06Is 51  111111101S I01-P5
*       06         00 *    5      1t        31 8     0aol M    1111                           153tla  wlow
1       61         063    0*      U   ICO31    6651            05a1t I  "I'mCS u                    IUlDS3iI
*      61         SR      006    11      SAlSo    011,1 1   M  1131 n133 U1UUin30
u      06         0'65   $58    PSI    0611         ff15      611                                    53253 1"   
63 c        a601   010    *1   613115   015101   3 13                                       13Mm13 1 U  16o1-
6  11     013    65      015~~~l    110CW   36511       I630                        1WIUUSI15
1  11         OP~~a   M0      IN1     M"11      1m1u      311001                                  332I3
5       11         US      666    010    1015 u650ol  An,       u  l                    sala               h
5 13* 195  1l
_q  *d S ---'---    _.__,__,_
-   W - 11



3                               8 8 X
~-    .D-  _   oo_  _ _ __ _ _
§u~~ ~ ~  ~ 1   ___U___ __U ___
,t    'I      =_I :,
'0g        1          4|:-    444 1ii i
28 1-1" |~    41   44l
S]2 - -   4g 4
wt~' __________________________________i
III~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



- 66 -
TPble 1
AscLT           slm    E CT
TAKE 1 - TCNA g           =
POECT  Er                             TOTALU
mu     E1      LI      LIE     El      LYE                NM      U
1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .mom  _
1.   Meugseatpolllet                    M         1       1       1       -                 S
(DA  directorste)
t.  Sr.Preoj.c E"|_r (BAT)              MM       12       9       a       8       *        2.5   (a)
S.   n1assommatCorvtea.l..              w         0  9            6       4       * 5
4.  Rear.h PreframlMgI                  K         -       -       0       _       S                        16
S.  Plas  Mmam                           W        4       a       2       1       1 
6.  Solar berw Cou it                             1       -       -       -                         1
7.  RVP                                 MY        1       1       1       -       -
S.  ESfMD                               w         1       1       -       -       -         2
S.   6FDM    - Aoricaltrel Me1bloory    NM        -       4       4       4       4                1
.Somu                                  mu        4       2       2       2       2                it
:1.SO IA/Rlc                            M         -       4       2       2       2                1
- Poet Nerve" Tern    lo
it. Alae   Prodw*lo1 MY                           1       1       -       -       -         2
1s. Lob./SIeaifloe £u01e                11        2       -       -       -       -
14. SdProdutio                                    -               -       -       - 
i6. IT-nto                              M         -       1       1       1       - 
16.11357                                111       -       -       -       1       1                 2
TOTALS                                                                               15.S V   (44 1f)  57 V
,  Itevabloeal rreseAh epecellste, participatog  n perpeleodi la-depth rovIew of the natIlonl
resarc  programs and of the lndlvldul program.
V    Lone-term teohnloal aesiteses - oootlnuone.
3/  Coa.leales nd stue.



.URKDiA PASO
Anicultuara Researclch P*roJct
TMULE 2 - MERA STAFF PROJECTIOIS - Rsrarbcher  /
breftesstZ        RSV               ESFIMA            An. Prod.           Cereals        O Is _og Y s./Frolt                  tioe
Fa rekbi       G,765-,76        1+1,5-4.1,5      2.1-8.1            a - a              8.1441,5        14,5-14,5        1.1,26-1.1,26       2.1,S-2-2,0
KoGa6          0 - O,C          O - *            0 - 1                -0               O -5            0-2              0-s,5               *-0
Di             0,5-,5             - 0            5,5-1,5            5           -          a  0          - s            a - I                 -o
Saria          O,W,t            0 - 0            4 -                  -                1 - 2           8,s-0,5          0 -                   - 0
Katcb rl       *,5W,6           a - 0            0-                 ,'-1,5 I-5                         *-s               s-s                s-s   "
Komboles      5,.-4,5          8 - 5            2 - 1              2,26.2,25          2*2-2.2         2.1,5-2*1,S       1 -                * - S
TOTAL          -                4.1,ii-51,5      5l1,5-11+1,5       6*10,2540,25       0-+.8,6         8*2,5-5+2,5       11,76-2.1,75       2*1,5-2*2
.5               .8                 +1                 .1,5 I2                          *1                  *,$
Nets For Year 0: lot fiure represent _mber at offul 1-ti  r_,esearhr,
2nd ftire represents thb sm total et pert-time rsarebrs:
For exmples 1.1.5 - I re_arebr (tall-tl_) * r pert-ti. remarnhre  ho combled time adds up to 1.5 f1ll-tim  ressrchstS
For Year 5s Same presi_ttlon for Srd sa  4th figure.
;, HsndqurtsCstet tff  ot Included.
V  Timo spet on managment by Progrm Coordinators and Station ilueg.
t41



Agelrulturl Smer.b Pretet
TALS 3- DM    STAFF PRFJECTn    - smreb Fitld metd_s
_m.wmssA        RV      ES UA                  An. Pld.       C_elo          01 led                 V.lp. it    nIc
1-   6          t  -5   6  -  I 0         -           t        O -   S 0         - S                a       -      I a  -  C
Fan&o-O      T      4  -4                -  S     *-               4  -  2         1-             2- 2                  1-             4    5
0                             6             1                a                             0                      0              1
Komr6        T      1-2              *  -  *      *--2             I  -  a         O  -  I        I  -8                 I   "1         *  - 
0                                           1                                              4
Di           T      O-I 2               -  *      O-f 2                - 2         O-         1       -  O              O-         2-1
0                                           2                                1                                    2
Seil*        T      2  -2            *      2         - 5          0  -  *         1-8            O  -  I                   -  *       *  - 
0                                           2                                2
Doti         t          -  O         I  -  0      O  -  I           I         _        _              -                 I  -  I        I  -  I
0
KItboai      T      2-2              4-   8-                       I  -                -2             -                     -              -
0                             4                                              2
TOTAL        T      0-  12           4-  1         3-  12          4  -            2-   9         2- *                  1-6            4 
0
lncr_emtele
TcelccIaat.         .8               *12          .4               .1              .7             .0                    .              .2
Obeerwateurs                        +.1                    4       .1                             +4                    *2             *2
T a teseslces, 0 a obeervateer.
Co%E
Il



- 69 -
Annex 11
Table 4
BURKINA FASO
Agricultural Research ProGect
Table 4 - PHASING OF INCREMENTAL LOCAL HIGHER LEVEL STAFF
INERA:   Directorate                      YR 1   YR 2   YR 3   YR 4   YR 5
Accountant                              1       1       1       1      1
Personnel Officer                       1       1       1       1      1
Material Resources Officer              1       1       1       1      1
Documentalist (Librarian)               1       1       1       1      1
IRET:    Headquarters
Forestry Specialist I/                 -        1       1       1      1
Agroforestry Specialist (ESFImA)        1       1       1       1      1
INERA:   Stations
1. Farako-Ba
Post-harvest Technologist(SOMIA)       -        -     0.5     0.5    0.5
Agroeconomist (RSP)                     1       1       1       1      1
Farming Systems Agronomist (RSP)       -        1       1       1      1
Livestock Production Specialist (RSP)  -       -        1       1      1
Agricultural Mechanization(ESFIIM)     -        -               1      1
Post-harvest Technologist (Rice)       -       -      0.5     0.5    0.5
2.  Saria
Agricultural Mechanization(ESPIMA)     -        -       1       1      1
Plant Protectior  Sorghum(SOMIMA)       1       1       1       1      1
3. Kamboinsd
Agronomist (RSP)                        1       1       1       1      1
Farming System Agronomist (RSP)        1        1       1       1      1
Ollseed Crop Breeder 2/                 1       1       -       -      -
Oilseed Crop Agronomist 2/             1        1       -       -      -
4.  Di
Rural Engineer-Irrigation (ESFIMA)     -       -        1       1      1
Plant Protection (Vegetable Crops)     -       -        1       1      1
5. Kouar6
Oilseed Crop Breeder 3/                -       -        1       1      1
Oilseed Crop Agronomist 3/             -        -       1       1      1
6.  Katchart
Livestock Production Specialist        -        -       -       1      1
1/ Newly recruited Burkinab6 Forester would work with and be trained by the
internationally recruited Symbiotic System specialist, who will be hired for
3 years, as of year 2.
2/ Researchers would be located at Kouar6 as of year 3, upon completion of
housing construction.
3/ Transferred from Kamboins9 (see footnote 2)



SUIKIA FASO
ACRICULTUIRL REAC  PROJECT
GOVI4NEN  POJCT RELLTD CASH  LOW */
(UnIt ctl I Ion CFAF)
PnO        PYl       PYm       pTs        PY4        PYS    Pm-29    PY u    PY21-
1967       1986      1969      1990       1991       1992       1996
DA Crdit                     as        10        1262      121S       14          an          -         -           -
AppI Icatlon/Oul*lee
Project Nab c11t Co         iS         lU=       1z2       1266  1200   .6o             10U             5          5
Debb Sevice IDA
Comitment Chrge. and
Service Charge. O          -           81        o         87         41         44         42         40         1*
Prtnelpel P.1.nm            -          -         -         -          -          -          -          5?        170
Tot I Applicatbe.              Su        1J        1320      1297       1134        09         662        637        729
Surplus (D eleib)                        (60)      (56)      (62)       (94)      (10)       (g62)      (637)      (729)
*/  In eurrent torms throughot the proJact, thereafter, n cstnt 1eI2 torm.
b/ From 1998 on  rd  r current *xpenditure plus  aortilzation of vhiclel  over B yers, trucks over 6 years  od meorctles over 2 years.
c/ Stanrd IDA terms. 
d/ Average, over 30 ytre. 



- 71 -
ASX 18
Aoricultuuat Rsearch Proloct
Estiated Shedue of Dibumonts
Fiscal YVer/Sq oster            pDhburement            Cumulatlve          Wet Africa
(onding on dates shohn)       _itr      sutu vl   Dl*bureemet   Agricultural Project
(M^( N)                                tProfl sI
FY 1988
June 0, 19961                                0 6 
D eember 8,s iI k           2. S/           2.5            14                   0
June s, 1989                2.0             4.5           2S                   2
PY 199J
December J#1989             1.5             6.1            88                   6
June 8, 199                 1.4             7.4            41                  12
December 81. 1990           1.8             6.7            49                  19
June s, 19i1                1.8             11.0           56                  27
FT 1992
Deoembr S1, 1991            1.5             11.5           64                  36
June Mt 1992                1.5            18.0            78                 45
,> 19-0$
December U   1992           1.6             14.0           70                  56
June  , 199                 1.2            15.2            96                 64
FT 1994
D ecseer 81, 199S           6.9             16.1          9o                   72
June 80, 1994               0.5            16.6            98                 79
FY 1Wz
Docbr U81, 1994             0.4             17.0           96                  S$
June80, 1995                9.8            17.8            96                 9
_c     er si, 19#5          0.2            17.5            98                 95
June  , 199                 0.2            17.7            99                 so
FY 1997
Deember 81, 19#             0.2            17.9            1J                  UJ0
!/ Expected dteo  of Board Preontalons April 19, 196
k/ Expected dteU of Credit Effectivennes   September  , 1988
/ Includes refimeacing of PPF (US1.6   II Ion) &n  initial deposit Into Rolving Account
0370s



- 72 -
ANNME 14
Page 2.
BURKINA FASO
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Xe Technical Assistance Staff
A.   Management Advisor
Responsibilities
1. During the three years of his assignment (beginning in year 1 of the
project) the specialist would assist the Director of INERA in the
execution of his  overall functions,  especially with  regard  to
management of the institution.
2. Assist and advise the Heads of the Research Division and of the
Resources Division of INERA in the execution and coordination of their
managerial tasks.
3. Act as advisor to the Program Coordinators in the formulation of their
research programs and the objectives to be achieved.
4. Draft detailed torms of reference for technical assistance specialists
and consultancies funded through the project.
5. Act as coordinator of and advisor to other technical assistance hired
under the project.
Qualifications and Experience
-   a  higher  degree  (Ph.D.,  or M.Sc with  long  oxperience)  In
agricultural science;
-    a minimum  of  7 years of  experience  in  research management;
familiarity with West-african conditions deslrable;
-    familiarity with international agricultural research programse
-    good working knowledge  of the French  language (both spoken  and
written) is essential.
B. Sonior Prolect Enftineer
General   responsibilities:    planning,   coordinating   and    evaluating
implementation of the construction project, and planning the equipment
maintenance systems.
Responsibilities
1. The Senior Project Engineer, as Head of the Technical Support Unit,
("Bureau d'Appui Technique') under the supervision of the Director of NERA
and in close collaboration with national and regional authorities, research
station managers, enterprises, suppliers, artisans and transporters, will:



- 73 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2
(1)  plan the overall execution of the investment project on behalf of
INEM and prepare Implementation programs supported by eat msted
budgets;
(iL) forecast needs and  ensure that the  necessary human, technical,
professional, material and financial resources are available
where and when needed;
(Lit) direct, monitor and generally supervise the duties of delegated
staff, as  well  as  all  activities  related  to  investigations
surveys  and  inventories,  topographic  surveys, building   and
equipment lists,  architectural programs and  space  scheduling,
preparation  of preliminary  schemes obtaining  the   necessary
approvals and clearances of the appropriate authorities and the
World Bank, pre-qualifications, bid invitation, bid reception,
opening and analysis,  recommendations for  contract awards.  He
will also be rosponsible for overseeing the supervision of the
vorks and delivery and safe hand-over of the headquarters
buildings for INERA and IRBET and the construction works at the
research stations and their installation, all in accordance with
agreed schedules, standards and contract documents;
(iv) oversee in particular the logistics of construction materials,
furniture and equipment, both fixed and mobile, and corresponding
documentation.
(v) maintain an up-to-date accounting of the construction project and
of equipment and materials;
(vi) contribute to the overall management of the project by submitting
quarterly reports on progress In civil works construction and
purchase  of equipment,   including  a   financial update   and
projections, in a format designed to fit into the periodic
reports of the Director of INERA.
2,  For the worksites included in the projoct, the Senior Project Engineer
wills
(i)  foresee  logistical or   technical problems   end  advise  the
l$plementers -- architect, engineer, enterprise, supplier -- how
to resolve these problems  In a t$mely manner  in order to  avoid
dolays In carried out work;
(ii) ensure the flow of supplies to the worksites, oversee any
day-work or direct labor works, and coordinate activities In
general;



- 74 -
ANNEX 14
Page 3
(iiI) establish a system of daily logbooks of the worksites; Identify
particular infrastructuro works requiring extension or repair to
Individual sites or sections, workshops, roads and various
networks; decide on supply strategies; make needed revisions and
modifications;  certify   works   for   payment;   and   make
recommendations on the hand-over of completed works;
(iv) establish a system for regular maintenance of infrastructure and
equipment.
3.  Responsibility for procurement of all project vehicles, equipment and
materials, Including preparation of tender documents, evaluation of bids,
etc.
4.  Through on-the-job  training, prepare  local counterpart  staff  for
taking over, prior to project completion, full responsibility for routine
procurement and maintenance of INERA's facilities, furnishings, equipment,
tools and rolling stock.
Qualifications and Exe rience
-   background in civil engineering or architecture;
-    at least 5 years' experience in project management in rural areas
of Francophone Africa;
-   abilitity to remain for variable periods in rural areas, and to
undertake field missions on a  regular basis.  Ability to  take
itiativeos, organize work and coordinate work of assistants.
C. Architect
Responsibilities
1.  The OArchitectO (or architectural firm), in close collaboration with
the Technical Support Unit of INERA (BATt Bureau d'Appui Technique), will
establish and manage a work program, using appropriate mothods (such as a
PERT chart) for all planned activities included in the phases of design,
bidding, construction and Installation under the project.
2.  The  "Archtect" will be  responsible  for the  design  and   final
evaluation of construction works carried out In connection with a completed
and operational project which is to include the following components:
archtecture, engineering, equipping of sites, installation of water and
power (solar or otherwise), certification of works for periodic payments.



- 75 -
ANNEX 14
Page 4
3. The 'Architect" will retain the services of a consulting firm and/or
an Independent consultant judged qualified by INERA and the Bank, with
experience in  the  design  of  the  following  elements:   Irrigation  and
drainage systems, ditches, dikes, land preparation and feeder roads,
photo-voltaic  techniques,  and  the  installation  of wells,  pumps   and
reservoirs.  This  consultant will be answerable  to the  "Architect' for
matters related to the equipping of the research station and of INERA and
IRBET headquarters.   The  'Architect' will ensure  that  these  foregoing
services are correctly reimbursed on the basis of actual costs for which
prior approval of INERA end the Bank will have been given. The 'Architect'
will include in his fees a sum intended to cover services in connection
with the coordination and management of said consultant services.
4.  The "Archtect" will  retain, at his  own expense, the  services of a
construction engineer, a mochanical engineer and of othor qualified
engineers as the need arises.
5. The "Architect' will produce master plans (1:500) and sketches of the
buildings (1:1200) planned for each of the research stations and for INERA
and IRBET headquarters.   The mater plans will show buildings,  roads,
fences, parking  lots, existing  distribution  points for electricity  and
water, etc., and will refer to all other characteristics connected to the
placement  of construction  elements   and  subsequent  development.    In
addition, the works planned in the context of the present project will be
identified and included (on the same scale) on the same master plan.
6.   Preliminary designs should be drawn up, including layouts on a  scale
of 1t:10, as well as estimates, in accordance with detailed architectural
programs supplied by the World Bank ("Descriptions des Travaux de 06ie
Civil et Indications a l'Intention do l"Architecte"). Variations of more
than 1OZ In quantities or costs will requiro an explanation and appropriate
justification. The preliminary designs will be approved by INDIAIBAT and
the World Dank before the subsequent phases of project Implementation can
proceed. An exhaustive description of the architectural works will be
Included in the contract between the architect and INERA.
7. The *Architect" will establish a set of contract documents including
work drawings  (1:50)  based  on  the  agreed prellminary  design.  These
drawings will Include floorplans, facades, cross sections of buildings, and
will be  accompanied by  lists  of technical specifications, bills  of
quantities and other documentation required to invite bids In the form of a
priced  bill.   Before  a bidding  invitation  Is  Issued,  all  documents
connected with it will be submitted to INEIA/BAT end to the Bank for
approval.



- 76 -
ANNEX 14
Page 5
8.   Following the approval of the work drawings, the "Architect* will help
BAT/INERA  to  prepare  the preselection   dossiers  for  the  local   and
International firms interested in submitting offers in connection with the
particular project. The preselection dossiers, as well as the preselection
procedures, will have to be approved by INERA/BAT and the Bank. Once the
results of the preselection have been evaluated, the 'Architect" will make
appropriate recomendations to INERA/BAT and the Bank.
9. In collabbration with INERAIBAT, the "Architect' will assist in the
following areasa
(a) preselection of firms
(b) bidding invitations
(c) interpretation of contract documents
(d) bid nalysis
(a) recommendations prior to contract award (adjudication report)
(f)  contract award.
10. The "Arehiteet" will supervise construction works under the project
and will employ, If necessary, resident engineers who will live on the work
site.
11. The  "Archtect" will verify  the  periodic  requosts  for  payment
submitted by the firm and will issue certificates for payment.
12. He will Lssuoe any orders for variations which may arise In the market
during the construction phase.
13. He will produce periodic progrcss  reports  as well  as  identify
obstacles likely to hinder the progress of works, In accordance with needs
and the instructions of INERA concerning project reporting.
14. The "Architect" will carry out the final inspeetion of each contract
and the hand-over of the works in accordance with the term and conditLons
of the contract documents.
D. Forestry Symbiotic SSystems Specialist
ResponsibilLties
The specialist will:
1.  put the existing laboratory at MET headquarters Into operation
and prepare a detailed list of additional equipmnt, as required;
2. initiate and devolop a research program on the improvement of the
officiency of tree symbiotic systems, both nitrogen-fixing and
mycorrhizal (micro-organism collection and manipulation, troe
clone selection, field trials);



- 77 -
ANNUC 14
Pogo 6
3.  provide on-the-job  training  for  a young  Burkinab&  graduate,
Identify his academic training needs at the end of his 3-years
work experienco and assist hiSm In his further research work
planning
4. provide on-the-job training for two technicians, a laboratory and
field w.rker);
5. assist the Director of IRB1T ins
(i) planning of the future research program on tree symbiotic
System#
(it) improving IRBET's ^tentific documentation In the fiolds of
his specific skills.
QualificAgtions and Experience
-    a university degree  at the level of uDoctorat de  Se cycle" or
"Ph.D.;
-    academic training  in microbiology, eco-physiology  and  genetic
uprovemont;
-    laboratory ard field experience of at least 5 years.
E. Research Agronomlst (Cereals)
RebsonsibilLties
The speciallst, during an initial work visit of about 4 months'
duration, and follow-up visits of up to 2 months during subsequent years,
would ssist the SMOIMA Program Coordinator and his staff, In fonmulating,
fiplementing and monitoring a national cereals resoarch program  (sorghum,
millet and maize), with agreed,  clearly defined objectives and priorities
for each of the sub-programs, and with clearly delineated roles of and
working relationships among subprograms; the national cereal and other
national research programs (epecially RSP and ESFIMA); and regional and
international research networks and institutions (especially ICRISAT, SITA
and CIHUT).
Qualifications and Experience
-    a higher  degree  (Ph.D., or NSc with  long  experience)   in
agricultural science, with at least 7 years of cereal research
experience In semi-arid regions (preferably, but not necessarily
in West Africa), and fully familiar with International cereal
research programs and networks operating in Wost Africa;
-    good working knowledge  of the Prench  language (both spoken  and
written) is essential.



- 78 -
ANNEX 14
Page 7
F. ESFIMA Research Axronomist
Resionsibilities
It would be one of the first tasks of the ESFIH& team to select
from mong the wide range of environmental and natural resource issues and
constraints that face the farmers in the major production zones of the
country, those that warrant priority attention and on that basis decide on
the most appropriate research strategy and methodology.
The   respective   roles   of    an   relationships   with    the
oammodity-oriented  research  programs; with  the  farming  systems  (RSP)
program; and with extension staff would also be reviewed and further
defined.
The  internationally  recruited   specialist,  during  a   2-year
assigrment, would  provide  guidance  in this  process,  by  assisting  the
Project Coordinator in the development of specific, short and medium-term
objectives for the ESFlI& research program, and assisting members of the
team In formulating their joint (interdisciplinary) and individual research
programs and  tasks.   This would involve,  inter  alia,  the  formulation
together with staff from RSP, of proposals for an applied research program
dealing with tillage and mechanization, with emphasis on Improved hand
tools and the development of animal draught power. The specialist would,
moreover,  provide   training  to   the  Burkinabo   research  staff,   and
periodically also to extension specialists, on research methodology and on
topical issues.
Qualifications and Exmerience
-    a higher degree  (MSc or  higher) in  agricultural science,  with
broad  experience   in  crop   agronomy  adn  natural   resource
management, and at least 7 years of indopendent research in crop
agronomy and/or natural resource management;
-    thourough understanding  and  first-hand knowledge  of  semi-arid
farming and agro-ecological systems, preferably in Sub-saharan
Africa;
-    good working knowledge  of the French  language (both spoken  and
written) is essential.



- 79 -
ANNEX 14
Page 8
0. Airicultural Economist (RSP)
Responsibilities
The Specialist, during his three-year assigrment (beginning tin
project year 1) would assist the RSP Program Coordinator in the execution
of his day-to-day responsibilities, i.e. (i) the formulation of short and
medium-term objectives and content of the research program; (ii) the
internal organization of the work program and its functional relationships
with other research programs (including those carried out by international
institutions), and with extension; (Iii) execution and monitoring of work
programs and studies; (iv) organizing training programs for extension staff
(in collaboration with the Research-Extension Lialson Officer of INERA).
The specialist would be responsible also for assisting junior
staff In the development and Implementation of their work programs, and he
vwould conduct training seminars on farming system research methodology and
topical themes.
Qualifications and Experience
-    higher degree (MSc or higher) in  agricultural economics, or  In
agricultural sciences with a minor in economics,
-    thorough familiarity and  experience of  at least  5 years, with
applied  research  and  farming  systems  research  concepts  and
methodology,
-    good working knowledge  of the French  language (both spoken  and
written) is required.
H. Livestock Production Research Scientist
Responsibilities
1.        The Specialist during his two-year assignment sa of year 1 of the
project, would assist the (Acting) Program Coordinator and the other
members of the Animal Production program with the preparation, of a
coherent livestock research program, for the short medium and long-term,
dealing with species (both small and large livestock) and issues of agreoed
national oconomic, socio-economic and technical priority. The proposals
would describe and reflect the government's policy for the livestock
subsector; would identify and address the major constraints faced by
farmers and pastoralists in the various livestock production systems_ would
provide cost estimates, research budget proposals, manpower projections and
staff training requirements and would be accompanied by specific proposals
for the phased development of the country's animal production research
program, its organization and infr"structural requirements.



- 80 -
Annex 14
Page 9
2.        The specialist would provide guidance and on the-job training  to
3urkinabS researchers In the development of their vorkprograms.
Qualifications and lxwerience
-    a higher degree (M$c or higher) in animal production, with  broad
experience in animal production research and research anagement,
-    thorough understanding  and  first hand  knowledge  of  livestock
production system and problems in semi-arid regions, preforably
In Sub-saharan Africas,
-    good working knowledge  of the Freach  language (both spoken  and
written) Is essential.



MAP SECTION



1   5  t          i                         i-                         F        +-         *     t                          ;+                           laD"01g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 202
MAUR1IAIIIA
_ /  ._ _ _ _ _               =  . r ,  _  . 4  .M                         A   L  I I
BURKINA FASO                                                                                                                                                            NIGER
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
PROJET NATIONAL DE RECHERCHESAGRICOLES
Research Station Network                                                                                                                                                          NIGERIA
Centres de Recherches Agricoles                           fD'l RE
*e<,  0°D1ibo         S    A    H    E    L Katcher! DORI                         w °°
KILOMETEtlS/kIlOMETRES                             IV  TCE  RA  .
~~ S~~OUAIGOUJYA /.0 
MF A  L I                                                           X                                                                                                                N I G  E R
ko                                                                                                           131-~~~~~eoZ~
=-~~~_  >   N4u    9 ( \omoS   g-4 C F N+F,) l  9 - 7/ -t<______-<  soX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  R A'                                                           4
MALIw7-g                                                                      %
I?    -- w  --I -------.,- \ . I
panel IV. *mB..Iu            (r           W ..
I  V       N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
^E   w   u  l  \s     s       ,%       1          >        -*- ND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRTHN LIMITFOR GRtONDNTCULTIVATION             I_SOMYTrSENvMIZLL'SETERff  s0^L'Of OLLNE SuvANtlffuELtR
BANFORA  ' I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIIED  FODD  A U UED'AND                                                                                         R    W lYA
Lul  Du \  AfNORD  CULTURE DU COTON                             PAVE FOADS N
? -   tNORTHERN LIMIT OF MAIZE WULTIVATI7A,                             RTESETUMSS
-  NORT"ERN LIMIT OF SOYBEAN CULTIVATION                            ROUTES OPRTM   Raf   CI  WAIB $.ODIEJIJAEWIj
.T 15 ROR  IT OS LA CUTUREOUNOJA                                UNPAVEDDROADS (PRIMARYADUDARll
10                                                                     -~              STREAM LIMIT OP YAM CULTIVATION                          -. ROUTES NOAwBI TU_r0  NR WE LRASEECORMCDAIRESIOUSAK INTEREITTENa    10
00    LIMUTTD NORD5 DE LA CLrJLTIERO'IOPAME                           RAILROADS
EXISTING /xIZRITNril                                           CJEMMIU6 01FIN
*     REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH CENTER                           RIVERS
CENTRE REGIONAL DE RECHERCHES AGRICOLES                         FLIVESM
NEAA IND RBET HEADQUARTERS                                            REIONAL LOEVELOSMENTR   A    IROP CAPITALS
A     CENTRE DE RECHERCIES AGRICOLES IT DE FORMATIION                 CITDES OSRGANUIOE RIGXNMAUX Of ElL OEAERT (OAD
COT  E                        'IVO   IR   E                                           E USTATION                                           -__INTEW TONAL BOUNDARIrLES
~~~. ~~~~SO/S - STATWIO                                                         FROTI AS (SEN TONAM
;EBRUARY 1987
-N-D



