Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1896 BUR
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Research Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 23, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1896 BUR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 23, 1988, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
Page  2
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement, including any sub-accounts of said account opened by the Borrower in 
respect of the Project;
(b)
"MESRS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific 
Research; 
(c)
"INERA" means the Agricultural Research Institute (Institut d'Etudes et 
de Recherches Agricoles) established and operating within MESRS pursuant to the 
Borrower's Raabo No. AN-IV/037/CNR/MESRS/MAE, dated June 16, 1987;
(d)
"IRBET" means the Research Institute for Tropical Biology and Ecology 
(Institut de Recherche en Biologie et Ecologie Tropicale), established and operating 
within HESRS pursuant to the Borrower's Raabo conjoint No. 
AN-V/007/FP/ESRS/ET/AE/EN/CNRST, dated December 18, 1987;
(e)
"Research program" means any of the agricultural research programs 
referred to under Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be carried out by INERA and 
IRBET;
(f)
"Research station" means any of INERA's stations located in Kamboinse, 
Saria, Farako-Ba, Di, Kouare and Katchari;
(g)
"CC" means INERA's or IRBET's Management Council (Conseil de Gestion) 
established pursuant to the Borrower's Raabo No. AN-IV/037/CNR/MESRS/MAE, dated June 
16, 1987, and Raabo conjoint No. AN-V/007/FP/ESRS/ET/AE/EN/CNRST, dated December 18, 
1987, respectively;
(h)
"BAT" means INERA's Bureau d'Appui Technique; 
 
(i)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(j)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters, dated 
December 21, 1982, and January 11, 1983; October 7, 1985, and November 20, 1985; March 
24, 1987, and May 28, 1987, between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(k)
"Fiscal Year" means INERA's fiscal year which runs from January 1 to 
December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 14,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of all Parts of the Project, 
including those to be carried out by IRBET, open and maintain in CFAF a Special 
Account in a commercial bank in the name of INERA on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. All INERA's and IRBET's invoices to be paid out of the Special 
Account shall be paid by INERA. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
Page  3
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1994, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of 
June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988. 
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May I and November I commencing May 1, 1998, and ending November 1, 2027. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2007, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such 
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end shall, through 
MESRS, cause INERA and IRBET to carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and agricultural research practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, make the proceeds of 
the Credit available to INERA on a nonreimbursable basis.
(c)
Without any limitation upon any of its obligations under paragraph (b) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall make annual recurrent budget allocations to INERA and 
IRBET of at least CFAF 200,000,000 and CFAF 31,000,000, respectively.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause INERA to: 
(a)
employ a locally-recruited Information and Training Officer with 
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association, not later than November 
30, 1988; and
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and comments: (i) a 
detailed scientific and laboratory equipment purchase program for INERA, including 
cost estimates, not later than January 31, 1989; and (ii) a livestock production 
research program including detailed investment proposals, not later than September 30, 
1989.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than October 31, 1988, take all 
necessary measures to implement the organizational and staffing  arrangements 
established by INERA and IRBET Statutes.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain at all times: (i) the agreed 
establishment of research staff for INERA and IRBET; and (ii) INERA's and IRBET's key 
positions filled with qualified research and support staff; and
(b)
communicate to the Association, for its prior approval, all proposed 
changes in the organizational structure of INERA and IRBET.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than May 15 of each year, prepare 
and furnish to the Association, for its review, INERA's and IRBET's joint draft 
research programs and budgets for the immediately following year, so as to enable the 
Association to make its respective comments to INERA's CG meeting.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than May 31 of each year, hold an 
annual meeting with the Association and other major aid agencies participating in the 
financing of agricultural research to: (a) review results of the research programs 
carried out by INERA and IRBET during the previous year; and (b) discuss work plans, 
research programs, cost and financing plans proposed for the following year.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1992, conduct a 
mid-term review of progress achieved in the implementation of the Project, including 
the appropriateness of organizational and institutional arrangements for agricultural, 
livestock and forestry research; and (b) promptly thereafter furnish to the 
Association, for its review and comments, the findings and recommendations of the 
mid-term review carried out pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association for its review and comments: (a) not later than 
December 31, 1988, a draft detailed first year's training program for INERA and IRBET 
staff to be implemented not later than May 31, 1989; and (b) not later than May 31 of 
Page  5
each year thereafter, a detailed training program for the following year.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure that all 
INERA and IRBET staff having received training abroad, financed under the Project, 
remain in their assignments for a period of at least five (5) years after completion 
of such training. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause INERA to maintain records and 
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, INERA's 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, including those of 
IRBET.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause INERA to: 
 
(i)
have its records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year, audited in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
INERA to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the completion of the audit 
for the 
Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Raabo No. AN-IV/037/CNR/MESRS/MAE, dated June 16, 1987, and Raabo No. 
Page  6
AN-V/007/FP/ESRS/ET/AE/EN/CNRST, dated December 18, 1987, of the Borrower shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project.
(b)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of INERA or IRBET or for the 
suspension of their operations that would materially and adversely affect the 
objectives of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by 
the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
an internationally-recruited Research Management Specialist has been 
employed to assist the Director of INERA, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement;
(b)
tenancy of the land assigned to INERA and IRBET for the implementation of 
the construction program under Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project referred to under 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement has been legally attributed to MESRS; and
(c)
the members of INERA's CG have been appointed.
 
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for financial 
resources is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
B.P. 7008
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Cable address:
Telex:
 
REFI
5256
Ouagadougou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Paul-Desire Kabare
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                      Amount of the
              Credit Allocated      
   % of
         (Expressed in   
Expenditures
   Category          
 SDR Equivalent) 
to be Financed
 
(1)    Civil Works:
(a)
INERA and          
      200,000       
100%
IRBET head-
quarters
(b)
Research         
    2,000,000       
100%
 stations
 
(c)
Livestock          
      200,000       
100%
production at
Katchari
(2)
(a)
Vehicles, furni-        1,700,000       
100%
ture, office
and agricultural
equipment
(b)
Scientific and            300,000       
100%
laboratory
equipment
(3)
Consultants' and    
   2,400,000       
100%
specialists'
Page  8
services, including
auditors
(4)
Training              
     900,000       
100%
 
(5)
Operating costs     
   3,000,000       
100%
of INERA and IRBET
(6)
Refunding of Pro-   
   1,300,000    
Amount due pur-
ject Preparation                 
suant to Section
Advance                          
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated      
   2,100,000
 
TOTAL
  14,100,000
 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Operating Costs of INERA and IRBET" 
means operating and maintenance costs of vehicles, equipment and buildings; travel 
costs for local and internationally recruited staff; inputs and materials necessary to 
carry out tests, trials, and periodic program reviews and planning meetings.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(b)
expenditures under Category (2) (b) , unless the Association shall be 
satisfied with the scientific and laboratory equipment purchase program referred to 
under Section 3.03 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(c)
expenditures under Category (1) (a) and (b), unless the Association shall 
be satisfied with detailed construction and rehabilitation plans for INERA's research 
stations and headquarters' offices, and IRBET's headquarters' offices; and  
(d)
expenditures under Category (1) (c), unless the Association shall be 
satisfied with the livestock production research program referred to under Section 
3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to:
(a)
strengthen and consolidate the Borrower's capabilities to plan, execute 
and evaluate agricultural research programs, including livestock and forestry 
research;
(b)
support specific research programs; and 
 
(c)
strengthen the links between agricultural research and extension 
services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Organizational Strengthening
 
Strengthening of INERA'S:
1.
managerial capability;
 
2.
financial management and accounting system;
 
3.
capability to carry out research and studies; and
Page  9
4.
physical resource management:
 
(a)
establishment of BAT; and
 
(b)
elaboration of detailed equipment schedules, requirements, 
specifications, cost estimates and bidding documents.
Part B:
Rehabilitation of Research Infrastructure
 
1.
Rehabilitation and construction of office and laboratory space, and acquisition 
of office, agricultural, laboratory and scientific equipment, and research supplies 
for INERA's and IRBET's headquarters.
2.
Construction, equipping and furnishing of about 30 houses for resident research 
and support staff, and about three guesthouses for visiting research staff assigned to 
the research stations in Kouare, Katchari and Di. 
3.
Connection to the existing electrical network and or installation of 
photo-voltaic (solar) energy systems at the research stations in Saria, Kouare, 
Katchari and Di.
4.
Acquisition of vehicles for INERA.
 
Part C:
Research Programs
 
1.
Strengthening of INERA's research programs on: 
 
(a)
Production Systems Research (RSP); 
 
(b)
Water/Soil/Fertilization/Irrigation/Mechanization (ESFIMA);
 
(c)
Livestock Production;
 
(d)
Cereals;
 
(e)
Oilseeds;
 
(f)
Vegetable, Fruit and Root Crops;
 
(g)
Rice; and
 
(h)
Cotton.
 
2.
Strengthening IRBET's forestry research programs for improving the efficiency of 
nitrogen-fixing systems on soil productivity.
Part D:
Training
 
1.
Carrying out a training program for research and support staff.
 
2.
Provision of:
 
(a)
Fellowships, in-service and other training, including attendance at 
workshops, congresses, special courses, study tours and exchange visits for research 
staff in their respective areas of specialization;
(b)
local training of research support staff (techniciens and observateurs) 
in research techniques; 
(c)
training in research management techniques for:
 
(i)
INERA's Director and the Heads of Divisions and research stations; 
and
(ii)
IRBET's Director; and
 
Page  10
(d)
training of extension specialists by research staff in extension 
methodology.
Part E:
Studies
 
Carrying out studies, including a review of INERA's basic seed production 
capacity and the ways to strengthen it.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods, works and services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth 
in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for the procurement of vehicles and 
equipment shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Burkina Faso may be granted a margin of preference 
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local Competitive Bidding:
 
Works referred to in Part B (1) and Part B (2) of the Project and goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but not exceeding the equivalent 
of $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association. 
2.
International or Local Shopping:
 
Goods which cannot be grouped in packages of at least $50,000 equivalent may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids 
invited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, provided the aggregate cost 
of such items shall not exceed the equivalent of $300,000.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
Page  11
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts of less than the equivalent of $20,000 on account of which the 
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of 
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 
4.01 (a) of this Agreement.
3.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist in the optimal execution of the Project, the Borrower shall 
cause INERA and IRBET to employ agricultural research, management engineering, 
accounting and financial consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of CFAF 160,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
Page  12
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the  Association shall reasonably request, 
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.   
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the 
amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association,
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to 
the  Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
