Report No. PID5985
Project Name               Pakistan-Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan
Region                            South Asia
Sector                            Financial Sector Development
Project ID                        PKPE49448
Borrower                          Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Finance
Government of Pakistan
Secretariat Building, Block Q
Islamabad, Pakistan
Tel: (92-51) 210-928
Fax: (92-51) 218-839
(92-51) 214-629
(92-51) 812-929
State Bank of Pakistan
I. I. Chundrigar Road
Karachi, Pakistan
Tel: (92-21) 241-7864
Fax: (92-21) 242-8342
Date PID Prepared                 July 1, 1997
Projected Appraisal               N.A.
Projected Board Date              October 1997
Background:
1. Country and Sector Background
The financial system of Pakistan consists of the State
Bank of Pakistan, 3 nationalized commercial banks, 2 partially
privatized banks, 21 foreign commercial bank branches, 9 private
domestic banks, 2 provincial commercial banks, 9 development finance
institutions, 60 leasing companies, 45 modarabas (mutual funds), 3
stock exchanges, and 60 insurance companies. Although in recent
years the share of the non-bank financial sector has increased, the
financial system is still dominated by the commercial banks.
Commercial banks account for over two thirds of total financing, and
hold over 90 percent of the public's deposits.
State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) is the country's central
bank. Aside from its traditional central bank functions, it is an
important source of financing for the government and certain state-
owned development finance institutions. SBP is the regulatory and
supervisory authority for banks, but shared this role with the
Ministry of Finance and the Pakistan Banking Council with respect to
the Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCB). It has been charged with
the supervision of the non-bank financial institutions, although it
did not have the authority to license or de-license them.



Although Pakistan's commercial banking system is still
heavily dominated by the 3 NCBs and 2 partially privatized banks, in
contrast to the oligopoly of the five NCBs in the 1980s, Pakistan
has achieved a more competitive market structure, with the
establishment of new private commercial banks, the expanding market
share of the foreign banks and the privatization of two NCBs.
However, rapidly deteriorating governance and credit discipline,
especially in the state-owned banking sector, have aggravated
structural problems.
Structural problems have grown as evidenced by a
worsening level of non-performing loans, a slow-down in domestic
deposit mobilization, a growing dependence on foreign currency
deposits (FCD), and increasing market intervention to contain the
cost of financing a large fiscal deficit. Consequently, the
insolvency of the banking sector has increased, two large NCBs and
the older DFIs are experiencing liquidity problems, foreign exchange
reserves are being boosted by potentially volatile and expensive
FCDs, and access to credit by the private sector has been
increasingly curtailed.
The sources of governance and discipline for Pakistan's
financial sector, i.e., bank owners, bank regulators, market
competition, and the courts, either have perverted incentives or are
too weak to provide proper governance or impose credit discipline.
The government which owns most of the banking sector through its
ownership of the NCBs and larger DFIs has allowed political
interference to pervert credit allocation and loan recovery
decisions of the NCBs and DFIs. Because of the frustration over the
devastation of the banking sector by large defaulters and the quasi
fiscal deficits that must now be recognized and financed by
taxpayers, there is consensus in Pakistan that the key solution lies
in the privatization of state-owned banks.
Banking regulation and supervision over the NCBs and DFIs
were a responsibility shared by three agencies, the Ministry of
Finance, the Pakistan Banking Council and the State Bank of
Pakistan, and have been weak and rife with conflicts of interest and
perverse incentives. SBP did not have the autonomy to exercise its
regulatory and supervisory powers over most of the banking sector,
i.e., the NCBs and DFIs. SBP's supervisory capacity is itself weak.
Although it is trying to improve the quality of bank oversight,
considering the years of neglect during the period of nationalized
banking, it will take time before SBP can acquire the expertise to
manage banking risks and anticipate bank failures.
Although growing, competition in financial markets is
still limited. The NCBs continue to dominate the market, rendering
market discipline also weak. Among the NCBs, Habib Bank (HBL) and
National Bank of Pakistan (NBP) account for half of the market.
Credit ceilings, although removed in principle, still apply in
practice curtailing more dramatic shifts in market shares among the
NCBs, the privatized banks, the private domestic banks and foreign
bank branches. Moreover the playing field is not level. NCBs and
privatized banks are allowed to operate de jure with less capital
- 2-



(although the situation is worse, de facto, since they have negative
capital), enjoy lower tax rates, and have a preferred position to
receive public sector deposits. Reduction in market concentration
must be an important objective to aim for in the privatization of
the NCBs. The sale of the NCBs, especially of HBL, in parts, rather
than as wholes, must be a serious consideration.
Finally, the legal risks for banks in Pakistan are
extremely high. When a loan becomes non-performing for any reason,
the recourse to the legal and judicial system is very costly due to
the time it takes not only to get decisions made but also to get
decisions executed. Lenders cannot foreclose on collateral without
lengthy court procedures. The legal and judicial system in Pakistan
has become a haven for defaulters rather than a deterrent to
defaulting. Under Islamic banking, interest has to stop accruing
210 days after a case is filed in court, on the assumption that
court decrees could be made and executed in 90 days and because of
the Islamic principle that interest cannot accrue on interest.
Since the experience is that it takes years to get court cases
resolved, a defaulter can enjoy an interest free loan beyond the
initial 210 days allowed for accruing interest under Islamic banking.
2. Objectives
To reform the banking sector by improving the
environment for, and ability of, bank owners, bank regulators, the
markets and the courts to provide governance and impose financial
discipline.
3. Description
The proposed Loan would provide balance of payments
assistance to the Government of Pakistan (GOP) to help it implement
a stabilization program and structural reforms in a distressed
banking sector in face of a difficult external position. This
operation would support implementation of major short-term reform
measures in the banking sector that would arrest the deterioration,
prevent a crisis, and place the implementation of a medium-term
reform program on an irreversible path. The Government's commitment
to the medium-term program is laid out in a Letter of Development Policy.
4. Financing
IBRD - US$200 million equivalent
5. Implementation
The Ministry of Finance will provide overall
coordination in project implementation. The State Bank of Pakistan
will be responsible for strengthening banking regulations and bank
supervision, and implementing the agreed market liberalization
measures. The Privatization Commission, in coordination with SBP,
will be primarily responsible for carrying out the bank
privatization program. The Ministry of Law will be responsible for
legal and judicial reforms. Project implementation will be
- 3-



monitored by the Bank by means of the Letter of Development Policy
which lays down the medium-term reform program.
6. Sustainability
The ordinances adopted by the interim government have
been enacted into law by the new Parliament. Institutional reforms
in the State Bank of Pakistan and in the court system are expected
to improve their capacity to supervise banks and enforce financial
contracts, respectively. Bank privatization is expected to bring
about bank owners who have the integrity, capital, banking
expertise, and management to run banks prudently and efficiently.
More competitive markets will help impose discipline.
7. Poverty Category
Not Applicable
8. Environmental Aspects
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on
Environmental Assessment (OS. 4.00, Annex A), the proposed operation
has been placed in Category "U" and would not require an
environmental assessment.
9. Program Objective Categories
EA - Economic Management, and
PV - Private Sector Development
Contact Point:  The World Bank InfoShop
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending February 6, 1998.
- 4 -



