Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18684
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
BANKING SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4257-PAK)
December 10, 1998
Finance and Private Sector Development Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Pakistani Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 46.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB            Asian Development Bank
BSAL           Banking Sector Adjustment Loan
BT             Banking Tribunal
DFI            Development Finance Institution
EFF           Extended Fund Facility
ESAF          Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
FCD           Foreign Currency Deposit
GOP           Government of Pakistan
GST           General Sales Tax
IMF            International Monetary Fund
LDP            Letter of Development Policy
NBFI           Non-Bank Financial Institution
NCB           Nationalized Commercial Bank
NFC            National Finance Commission
NSS           National Saving Schemes
OECF          Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PBC           Pakistan Banking Council
PC            Privatization Commission
PML-N         Pakistan Muslim League
SAP           Social Action Program
SBC           Special Banking Court
SBP           State Bank of Pakistan
SCL           Single Currency Loan
SLR           Statutory Liquidity Reserve Requirements
SMP           Staff-Monitored Program
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN - FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
Vice President:                     Ms. Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:                   Mr. Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Manager:                     Ms. Marilou Uy
Task and Sector Team Leader:        Mr. Joseph Pernia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
BANKING SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4257-PAK)
CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ............................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .............................................  ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ........................................I
A. Introduction                            .I
B. Piroject Objectives                       .3
C. Achievement of Project Objectives                 .3
D. Irnplementation Record                       .9
E. Project Sustainability .10
F. Bank Performance .10
G. Borrower Performance .11
H. Assessment of Outcome .11
I. Future Operations .12
J. K;ey Lessons Leamed .12
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES ......................... 14
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits .15
Table 3:  Project Timetable .15
Table z4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .    16
Table 5:     Status of Main Legal Covenants .16
Table 6:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .17
Table 7:   Bank Resources: Missions .17
ANNEX: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ...................................... 18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- i -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
BANKING SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4257-PAK)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Banking Sector
Adjustment Loan (BSAL) in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, for which a loan in the
amount of US$250 million was approved on December 9, 1997 and made effective on
December 16, 1997.
A single tranche, made available upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed on
December 17, 1997. The loan was closed on schedule on March 31, 1998.
This ICR was prepared by Joseph Pernia (Principal Financial Specialist, SASFP),
Shideh Hadian (Operations Officer, SASFP) and Mudassir Khan (Project Finance and
Privatization 'Specialist, SACIS), all of the South Asia Region, and reviewed within the
Pakistan Country Department and the Finance and Private Sector Development Unit of the
Region. The Blorrower provided comments in a letter to the Bank dated November 27,
1998 which is appended to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's supervision mission of BSAL on
April 13-17, 1998. It is also based on material in the project file.



- ii-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
BANKING SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4257-PAK)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    Citing corruption and economic mismanagement, the President of Pakistan
dismissed Benazir Bhutto's government on November 5, 1996, dissolved parliament, and
called for new elections. A caretaker government was appointed to address governance
issues, arrest the economic slide and prepare for elections. On February 3, 1997, the
Pakistan Muslim League (PML-N), headed by former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, won
an unprecedenited landslide victory at the polls, and captured a majority of seats in
parliament. With a strong electoral mandate, the new government acted quickly to move
an ambitious legislative agenda through parliament to promote political and economic
reforms. It iniliated work on a comprehensive stabilization and structural reform program,
including a 'home grown" banking reform program designed to arrest the deterioration and
lay the basis for medium-term reforms. It requested the IMF and the Bank to assess and
support it. In July 1997, the Government and an IMF mission reached agreement on a
three-year ESAF/EFF arrangement for US$1.6 billion, which the IMF Board subsequently
approved on October 20, 1997.
Project Objecitives
ii.   Following on the approval of ESAF/EFF, the Bank's Board considered and
approved the Banking Sector Adjustment Loan (BSAL) on December 9, 1997. BSAL
aimed to support implementation of major short-term reforms in the banking sector that
were designed I:o arrest the flow of bad loans, curtail loss-making, and conserve the assets
of the Nationali zed Commercial Banks (NCB) and the Development Finance Institutions
(DFI), while they are being prepared for privatization. Prudential regulations and financial
disclosure standards were to be brought to international levels to increase transparency.
Market distortions were to be reduced to increase the efficiency of financial intermediation.
And. legal and 'judicial processes were to be strengthened to enable a more effective
enforcement of financial contracts. These reform measures were not only critically needed
to stop the hemorrhage. They were also needed to lay the basis for the implementation of a
medium-term program that would deal with the stock of bad loans, install good governance



- jjj_-
through a comprehensive privatization program, strengthen banking supervision, and build
the capacity of the legal and judicial system for loan recoverv. The Government s
commitment to the medium-term program was spelt out in a Letter of Development Policy
(LDP).
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.   BSAL was designed as a single tranche operation. with an unusual loan
acceleration clause, for several reasons. First. in view of Pakistan's poor policy reform
performance in the past, there was understandable skepticism about the country's resolve
to pursue reforms after a financial crisis is eased by a first tranche release. Second, it was
believed that a series of single tranche operations. coupled with a loan acceleration clause
in each case, structured the financial incentive of the operation better, providing stronger
support to reformers in Pakistan in face of opposition from vested interests. Third. since
privatization of banks and DFIs was seen as the ultimate solution to the problem of
corporate governance in the state-owned banks and DFIs, a multi-tranche operation was
considered inappropriate as privatization could be completed not only if the government
were willing to sell but also if there were willing and qualified buyers, a condition largely
outside the government's control. Finally, since the reform program was ''home grown".
with the Pakistani authorities taking charge of program design and implementation.
expecting prior actions rather than imposing conditionality was considered to be the more
appropriate approach.
iv.    BSAL's single tranche approach in support of a "home grown" program was
proved by subsequent events to be the right approach. First, the "home grown" feature of
the program engendered full ownership of reform design and implementation by the
Pakistanis. Second, by assessing prior actions instead of imposing future conditions, the
single tranche approach allowed the Bank to focus on results rather than on instruments of
reforms, giving the Pakistanis the latitude to select the reform instruments considered most
effective in the context of Pakistan's political and social realities. Third, the signals given
by the Bank were unequivocal since the single tranche approach made it clear to reformers
and opponents alike that the Bank's financial assistance was to be made available in
support of actual reform implementation, not promises to reform. Finally, the pace of
reform implementation was put entirely in the hands of the Pakistanis since BSAL's
processing moved only as fast as prior reform measures were taken. This feature was
particularly important since, one month before expected Board presentation, the country
experienced a political crisis as the executive and judicial branches fought for supremacy.
The single tranche approach made it abundantly clear to the Pakistanis that Board
presentation would only happen after agreed prior actions were taken, as the political
stalemate was resolved.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
v.    BSAL provides strong evidence to prove the principle that program ownership must
underpin reform implementation for it to be successful. The banking sector reform



- iv -
program supported by BSAL was totally designed and implemented by the Pakistanis.
Decisions were made and actions were taken on their own volition. The Bank's role was to
define program "bankability", i.e., specify the results of reforms that would allow the Bank
to provide substantial financial assistance. The Bank also provided a global perspective by
sharing best practice in banking reforms in other countries, gave encouragement to
reformers when the going became tough due to opposition by vested interests, and
promoted the program to potential co-financiers and donors for support, resulting in
cofinancing by Japan's OECF. Finally, it provided parallel technical assistance through
another project to increase the capacity of concerned agencies (principally the central bank
and the privatization agency) in reform implementation.
vi.    The economic crisis or near crisis situation in Pakistan provided the opportunity for
taking strong reform measures. It precipitated a political crisis which resulted in the
election of a government with a very strong electoral mandate. This gave the government
the political calpital to mount a strong attack against vested interests. Thus, when political
capital is aplenty, bold reforms must be selected to maximize it. However, gains from
reforms taken in response to a crisis or near crisis have to be consolidated quickly because.
as the crisis eases, vested interests quickly return to slow reforms, if not reverse them
altogether. Pakistan needs to pursue reforms with the same vigor and resolve as before by
spending political capital wisely.
vii.   BSAL is among the first projects in the Bank that deal directly with the issue of
governance an(d corruption. To its credit, the Government did not shy away from
identifying failure of governance and corruption as the root cause of problems in the
banking sector, as its LDP explains. Thus, key reform measures correctly revolved around
insulating the banking system from vested interests, and achieving autonomy for the
financial intermediation function of the economy.
viii.  BSAL's preparation was a case of a very close collaborative process with IMF and
the productive lpartnership that such a collaboration engenders to the benefit of the client.
Conflicts between short-term stabilization and long-term structural measures were openly
discussed between the two institutions and shared with the client. Joint positions were
arrived at not by glossing over these conflicts but by making the trade-offs explicit, thereby
achieving a superior solution. This is illustrated, for example, in the way the approach to
how quasi-fiscal deficits in the banking system would be financed in the budget was agreed
among the Fund, the Bank and the Government. Discussions at the Fund and Bank Boards
recognized how BSAL and ESAF/EFF were mutually reinforcing and closely interrelated
in achieving reform objectives.
ix.    BSAL correctly tackled the flow problem first. By focusing on stemming bad
lending and reducing banking losses, liquidity in the banking system was quickly restored,
easing pressure on interest rates and helping with the economic recovery. The stock
problem will require a medium-term approach since these sunk costs will have to be
financed over time to be fiscally affordable.



- v -
x.    The Region plans to follow-up BSAL with another single tranche operation (BSAL
II) aimed primarily at achieving a permanent solution to the problem of corporate
governance in state-owned banks and DFIs through genuine privatization. This operation
would help meet the cost of resolving the stock problem that remain in these banks.
However, the financial restructuring of these banks would be undertaken only at the point
of sale and after there is a clear-cut reform of governance. Under the proposed project,
while the government will give a legal commitment to potential buyers that the financial
restructuring of the NCBs and DFIs would be undertaken. actual financial restructuring
would be implemented only at the point of sale, after a qualified bidder has been selected.
xi.   Privatization has many objectives (some conflicting), such as revenue generation.
reduced economic activity by the state, private sector development, greater efficiency. In
view of the root causes of the banking problems in Pakistan. the primordial objective.
under which other objectives would subsume, is to achieve improved corporate governance
by selling the NCBs and DFIs to the most reputable and qualified private investors. To
help achieve this objective, participation by reputable international banks would need to be
encouraged.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
BANKING SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 4257-PAK)
PART 1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introdrction
1.    Political Context. On November 5, 1996, Benazir Bhutto's government was
dismissed on grounds of corruption and economic mismanagement. A caretaker
government was appointed to prepare for elections, enforce accountability, address
governance issues and arrest the economic slide. During its three-month tenure, the
caretaker government focused on stabilizing the economy, stemming the deterioration in
the balance of payments, and holding elections on schedule.
2.    On February 3, 1997, the Pakistan Muslim League (PML-N), headed by former
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, captured a majority of seats in the National Assembly.
With a strong electoral mandate, the new government quickly moved an ambitious
legislative agenda through Parliament to promote political and economic reforms. Policy
pronouncements on economic reforms helped to restore confidence in the business
community as evidenced by a recovery in the stock market. However, general
lawlessness, especially in the main city of Karachi, continued to surface due mainly to
traditional ethnic animosities, religious conflicts and political rivalries.
3.    Macroeconomic Developments. Pakistan's macroeconomic situation
deteriorated substantially from 1995/96 to 1996/97 due to the poor economic policies of
the previous e:lected government and the ensuing political crisis which resulted in its
dismissal. The economy slowed down from a growth of 4.8 percent in 1995/96 to 3.1
percent in 1996/97. In addition, the fiscal and the current account deficits increased to
unsustainably high levels. Mainly because of weak revenue collection, rising interest
payments, and large defense outlays, the budget deficit increased from 5.7 percent of
GDP in 1994/95 to 6.9 percent in 1995/96 and 6.1 percent in 1996/97. Increased
government reliance on bank borrowing pushed up growth in the net domestic assets of
the banking system and domestic liquidity growth accelerated. As a result, the CPI-based
inflation rose from less than 10 percent in mid-1996 to an average of 11.8 percent in
1996/97.



-2 -
4.    The deficit in the current account of the balance of payments rose sharply from
3.9 percent of GDP in 1994/95 to 6.8 percent of GDP in 1995/96. and 6.4 percent in
1996/97. As a result, the level of official reserves fell by about US$2.7 billion over the
last two years to about US$600 million in December 1996 before recovering to about
US$1.5 billion (6.5 weeks of imports) in September 1997. Poor export performance was
the main factor behind the sharp deterioration in the external position, and the real
effective exchange rate appreciation hurt exports. Financing of the balance of payments
depended heavily on short-term borrowing and foreign currency deposits (FCD), which
amounted to about US$1l1 billion by September 1997.
5.    The new government moved swiftly to implement an ambitious structural reform
program. It also attempted to stabilize the macroeconomic situation by controlling
spending, trying to boost confidence and encouraging private capital inflows.
Immediately after assuming office, the government initiated work on a "home grown"
reform agenda. The reform program was comprehensive, and included the following
measures: (i) lowering of the maximum import tariff from 65 percent to 45 percent, and
reduction in the number of tariff bands and tariff concessions/exemptions; (ii) adoption of
a policy package for export promotion; (iii) rationalization of the rate structures and
broadening of the bases of the General Sales Tax (GST), personal income tax, and
corporate income tax; (iv) adoption by the four provinces of ordinances to initiate
taxation of agricultural incomes; (v) adoption of a wide-ranging comprehensive banking
reform program; and (vi) rationalization of public expenditures, including initiation of a
downsizing exercise to identify redundant organizations and staff.
6.    ESAF Negotiations. In March 1997, the Government, in agreement with the
Fund, abandoned the Stand-by Arrangement concluded with the interim government and
reached agreement on an IMF Staff-Monitored Program (SMP), covering the period from
April to September 1997. The Government and the Fund agreed that discussions on an
ESAF arrangement would be initiated provided that Pakistan met the agreed June and
September 1997 performance criteria under the SMP. Having complied with the criteria,
the Government reached agreement with the Fund mission on three-year ESAF/EFF
arrangements for US$1.6 billion, which the IMF Board approved on October 20, 1997.
7.    Banking Sector Crisis. In late 1996, Pakistan's banking system was on the verge
of a crisis. Non-performing loans had reached alarming proportions. Liquidity problems
had begun to emerge as disintermediation spread and banking losses mounted. Most
cases of loan defaults remained unresolved in an ineffective court system. These were
but manifestations of deep-seated problems - a breakdown of governance and loss of
financial discipline. Political interference had vitiated the financial intermediation
function of the banking system and borrowers expected not to repay loans they took,
especially from the state-owned banks. The authorities realized that, while these deep-
rooted problems would take time to resolve, immediate measures were needed to arrest
the deterioration and prevent a banking crisis, especially in face of a difficult external
position. In early 1997, the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance designed and
started to implement what they proudly called a 'home-grown" banking reform program.



- 3 -
At their request, a Bank mission visited Pakistan in May 1997 to assess whether the
program deserved the Bank's financial support.
B. Project Objectives
8.    BSAL aimed to support implementation of major short-term reforms in the
banking sector that were designed to arrest the flow of bad loans, curtail loss-making, and
conserve the assets of the Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCB) and the Development
Finance Institutions (DFI), while they are being prepared for privatization. Prudential
regulations arid financial disclosure standards were to be brought to international levels to
increase transparency. Market distortions were to be reduced to increase the efficiency of
financial intermediation. And, legal and judicial processes were to be strengthened to
enable a more effective enforcement of financial contracts. These reform measures were
not only critically needed to stop the hemorrhage. They were also needed to lay the basis
for the implementation of a medium-term program that would deal with the stock of bad
loans, install good governance through a comprehensive privatization program,
strengthen banking supervision, and build the capacity of the legal and judicial system for
loan recovery.
9.    Since Pakistan's banking sector problems stemmed from a failure of governance
and a break-down of the credit culture, the medium-term reform program aimed to
improve the environment for, and ability of bank owners, bank regulators, the markets
and the courts to provide the required governance and impose credit discipline. Thus, the
program encompassed the privatization of the state-owned sector of the banking system,
the enhancement of the authority and ability of the central bank to supervise banks and
effectively enforce regulations, the promotion of market integration and competition, and
the improvement of the legal and judicial processes for enforcing financial contracts.
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
Short-Term Mdeasures
10.   Arresting the Flow of Bad Loans. The most pressing need was to, stop the
hemorrhage and to prevent the situation from deteriorating. Based on an analysis of the
250 largest defaulters, the main source of default was identified to be project lending by
the NCBs. So the Government, as owner, instructed the NCBs to refrain from making
new project loans from December 1996 to June 1997. In January 1997, SBP required the
new management of the NCBs and DFIs (para 12) to tighten lending policies and
practices.



- 4 -
11.   Preventing Further Deterioration of the NCBs and DFIs. To improve corporate
governance, the management and boards of the NCBs and DFIs were replaced. More
importantly, the process of their appointment and removal was changed through an
amendment in the law to insulate it from political interference (para 29). This reform
resulted in the appointment of expatriate Pakistani bankers, working in reputable
international banks, as presidents, and professionals from the private sector as board
members. Given full autonomy in recruitment, the new management succeeded in
bringing in second and third layer managers from the private sector to revamp the whole
management team.
12.   As caretaker management until these institutions are privatized, the new
management of the NCBs and DFIs were required to implement action programs,
approved by SBP, aimed at conserving assets, reducing cost, downsizing staff and
branches, increasing loan recovery, and limiting lending to borrowers that have no default
with any other bank. The key mandate was to prepare these institutions for privatization
according to an agreed timetable.
13.   Reducing the Stock of Non-Performing Loans. A three-pronged loan recovery
program was launched. The first was an "amnesty" program through which defaulters
and "sick units" were given incentives to settle their overdues. Under this program some
39,000 defaulters and 300 sick units with loans amounting to Rs 27 billion and Rs 15
billion, respectively, were covered. The second was the mandatory filing with the new
banking courts of default cases of those borrowers who did not take advantage of the
amnesty program by September 5, 1997. These defaulters were pursued with the benefit
of the new loan recovery law which strengthened the hands of the banks and DFIs in loan
recovery. Under the third prong, asset recovery departments of the NCBs and DFIs were
strengthened and placed under new management. As of November 15, 1998, total cash
recovery had amounted to Rs 34.7 billion, or 25 percent of total defaults.
14.   Reducing Political and Social Costs. Until recently, all the five large institutions
to be sold were heavily overstaffed while the three NCBs had by far too many branches to
ever achieve reasonable profitability. Overstaffing and overbranching were caused by
political interference and could be resolved only with political backing. Moreover, the
employees were organized by militant and corrupt labor unions that have resisted
downsizing. It would have been difficult to attract bonafide investors to buy these
institutions had these social and political costs not been removed first so that their values
could be more transparently estimated on business grounds. Thus, prior to privatization,
the staffs and branches of these institutions were rationalized in accordance with plans
agreed with SBP. Because of anticipated resistance from the labor unions, downsizing
was done principally through voluntary separation with the help of an attractive severance
payment program. Through this program 23,000 employees, or 29 percent of total staff,
were separated from the NCBs and DFIs. The rupee counterpart of the proposed Loan
was used to help to finance the cost of the severance payment program which amounted
to the equivalent of about US$350 million on an after-tax basis.



- 5 -
Strengtheninig Prudential Regulations and Banking Supervision
15.   The goal of these reforms was to develop a regulatory and supervisory system that
would accurately assess the condition of banks and deposit-taking NBFIs and, where
problems exist, take action to rectify them. The system would prescribe capital standards,
loan classification and provisioning norms, exposure limits, accounting and auditing
standards, and reporting requirements, consistent with international standards, and assure
that such policies are pursued by banks and NBFIs. Supervision would be carried out
with qualified staff, and it would be implemented through an appropriate mixture of on-
site examinations and off-site analytical activities.
16.   Capital Requirements. To strengthen the-system's capital base and achieve
international consistency, Pakistan moved to the Basle system of defining minimum
capital requirements. In preparation for this change of regime, SBP undertook a study to
determine the impact of the new capital adequacy regulations on all banks in Pakistan.
Foreign banks and domestic private banks were found to have no difficulty in complying
with the revised regulations, but partially privatized banks and the NCBs would.
Considering that the NCBs would be privatized, compliance with revised capital
standards would be made a condition for privatization, and achievement of capital
adequacy would be agreed with the successful bidders. Similarly, a timetable for
compliance by the partially privatized banks was issued by SBP.
17.   Under the revised capital adequacy rules issued with effective from December 31,
1997, all banks operating in Pakistan are required to maintain capital and unencumbered
general reserves of not less than 8 percent of their risk weighted assets. Additionally,
they are required to achieve a minimum paid-up capital of not less than Rs 500 million by
December 31, 1998. While all private and foreign banks meet the minimum capital
adequacy ratio of 8 percent of risk weighted assets, the NCBs do not. In order to improve
the capital acdequacy ratio of UBL and HBL to around 4 percent, SBP injected Rs 21
billion and Rs 9.7 billion in these banks, respectively. Their ratios are expected to
improve once conditionalities associated with the capital injection, imposed by SBP, are
fully met. Progress in meeting these conditionalities is being closely monitored by SBP.
18.   Interest Income Accrual on Delinquent Loans. Until recently, interest income
continued to be accrued on long-term loans delinquent for 180 days. This served to
overstate income and understate the attention that troubled credits should receive. SBP
issued instructions to the effect that interest on loans delinquent beyond 90 days will
cease to be recognized as income, and income accrued in the previous 90 days will be
reversed.
19.   Loan Concentrations. Single borrower limits for commercial banks are 20 percent
of capital for fund-based exposure and 30 percent of unimpaired capital and reserves for
total exposure. These limits are reasonable and consistent with international standards.
However, a single borrower, if it is a listed company, was allowed to borrow up to 20
percent of the assets of a non-bank financial institution. This was excessive and could



-6 -
have created a situation where default by a single borrower could potentially lead to the
insolvency in an NBFI. Accordingly, SBP revised relevant regulations to make the single
borrower limits of deposit-taking NBFIs consistent with those of commercial banks.
20.   Reporting, Disclosure, and Off-Site Supervision. The banking supervision system
of SBP is being revamped. Information from the early warning system, off-site
surveillance and on-site inspection is being integrated and focused on risk analysis. In
addition to an income report, banks are now required to report balance sheet data in a
more simple, transparent format that would include current figures on non-performing
loans and estimated required provisions. SBP has revised reporting requirements for
banks that are based on accounting standards consistent with international norms. SBP
has required banks to report provisioning requirements and appropriately adjusted net
income and net worth in 1998, based on year-end 1997 reports. Once the quality of
reporting is satisfactory, the information from individual bank reports will be made
available to the public in an effort to make the overall financial system more transparent
and subject to greater market discipline.
21.   Bank Examinations. SBP is benefiting from the assistance of an international
consulting team, financed by the Bank, which is assisting in modernizing and reorienting
on-site bank examinations in Pakistan. This assistance includes participating in on-site
examination, developing an examination manual that focuses on bank risk and
performance and an examination report, and training to equip bank examiners with
appropriate skills. So far, 8 senior officers have been trained in the US. Another 72
middle level officers will also receive training in the US under this program.
22.   SBP has started a crash recruitment and training program to improve its short-
term and long-term staffing situation. Twenty qualified and experienced middle-level
staff were recently recruited for the bank supervision departments to achieve some level
of expertise immediately. In addition, SBP recruited about 130 new graduates (54 with
MBA/MA degrees), put them through a rigorous six-month theoretical and practical
training program, and assigned them to the bank supervision departments.
Promoting Market Integration
23.   The main causes of market segmentation have been the control on yields on
government securities through a control on the volume of auctions, the high statutory
liquidity reserve requirement for banks to provide a captive market for low-yielding
government securities, the administered rates on the National Savings Schemes and
interest subsidies for the Special Credit Programs. Another major source of market
segmentation, the subsidized forward foreign exchange cover on FCDs by SBP, is being
reformed with the assistance of the IMF.
24.   Statutory Liquidity Reserve Requirements (SLR) and Auctions of Government
Securities. Until recently, banks were required to invest 25 percent of their demand and
time deposit liabilities in approved securities, mainly consisting of 6-month treasury bills



- 7 -
(replaced with short-term federal bonds since July 1, 1996) and medium to long-term
federal investment bonds. This requirement made banks a captive market for public debt
instruments, enabling the Government to borrow from the banking system at below
market interest rates. Interest rates on government securities were further administered
by cutting-off auctions at pre-determined cut-off rates. SBP reduced the SLR by five
percentage points to 20 percent before Board presentation. It further reduced it to 18
percent, and more recently, further to 15 percent. SBP plans to further reduce the SLR
over an appropriate period of time to a level required for prudential purposes only. At the
same time, SBP has started the practice of pre-announcing the volume of securities to be
auctioned each time and allowing the bidding process to determine the yield on T-bills.
25.   National Saving Schemes. The interest rates on National Saving Schemes (NSS)
acquired on or after November 13, 1996 have been increased to facilitate the
Government's borrowing from the non-bank market. On 3-year Special Saving
Certificates (registered) the rate has been increased from 15 percent to 16 percent p.a. for
the first two and a half year and from 17 percent to 18 percent for the last six months.
The compoundl annual rate on 1 0-year Defense Savings Certificates has been increased
from 16 percent to 18 percent. Similarly, value of prizes available in the Prize Bonds
Scheme has been substantially increased. These changes have increased the differential
between the rates on the National Saving Schemes available to the non-bank public and
on public debt instruments (short-term Federal Bonds and medium to long-term Federal
Investment Bonds) held by the banks, increasing disintermediation. Favorable tax
treatment on NSS has further increased the wedge between the two market segments. To
reduce market segmentation and disintermediation, the Government is committed to
benchmark the NSS yields on market-determined rates for government securities of
similar maturities, taking account of differing transaction costs, and to rationalize their
tax treatment under a program agreed with ADB.
26.   Special Credit Programs. Mandatory and concessional credit programs were
meant to direct credit to sectors and clients with limited access. However, low rates of
interest have lecl to rationing of available credit on political grounds, usually at the
expense of the intended beneficiaries. In view of the above, SBP has eliminated new
funding for most programs. In the case of agriculture lending, SBP has stopped making
new loans through refinancing to the Agriculture Development Bank of Pakistan,
although the latter continues to recycle some of its agricultural credits while slowly
repaying SBP. In the case of the locally manufactured machinery lending scheme, the
lending rate has been raised, and the program has steadily declined in nominal terms.
27.   Currently, the only significant program for which concessionary SBP refinancing
is being provided is export financing. Due to the need to boost export, SBP did not
consider it timely to phase out this scheme. SBP is currently reviewing this scheme, with
a view to making indirect exporters eligible and giving priority to emerging, small and
medium size exporters. Considering its complexity, this issue will be assessed
thoroughly, and needed reforms undertaken under a proposed trade policy and export
promotion project. Overall, the absolute amount and the share of concessionary financing



- 8 -
to total private sector financing (including export financing) has declined significantly as
a consequence of the above-mentioned reform measures.
Improving Legal and Judicial Enforcement of Financial Contracts
28.   The goal of legal and judicial reformn was to: (a) insulate state-owned financial
institutions and the central bank from undue interference; and (b) facilitate the process by
which all financial institutions can gain control over their collateral and enforce other
legal and judicial remedies speedily and cheaply.
29.   Banking Institutions Law Reform. While a significant part of the banking system
is still owned by the state, there was need to insulate it from undue interference to enable
it to function on commercial grounds. The central bank, which has also been subject to
such interference in the past, needed to be given sufficient autonomy and authority. The
Pakistan Banking Council, an arm of the Ministry of Finance, also needed to be abolished
to make SBP the sole regulatory and supervisory agency of the banking sector. To effect
these reforms the interim government adopted appropriate ordinances in January 1997
amending the State Bank of Pakistan Act, 1956, the Banking Companies Ordinance, 1962
and the Banks Nationalization Act, 1974. These ordinances were subsequently enacted
into law by Parliament in May/June 1997.
30.   Collateral and Foreclosure Law Reform. A modem and simple collateral
foreclosure law was needed to facilitate the banks' efforts at gaining control of their
security and recovering debt. Under such a law, the charge would become immediately
enforceable upon failure to pay a secured debt, enabling the chargeholder to take
immediate possession of the charged property, and to sell the charged property, upon the
expiry of a suitable notice period, and to apply the proceeds of the sale to the discharge of
the secured debt. Court remedies would be available to the chargor, the chargeholder and
any third party (e.g., a tenant) claiming an interest in the charged property for the
protection of their rights under the law.
31.   Considering that a new collateral law would take time to draft and enact, the
current law was amended to facilitate the exercise by lenders of their right to sell a
mortgaged property without the intervention of the court, and to apply the proceeds of the
sale to the repayment of a mortgage or the payment of debt. To effect these reforms, the
Parliament passed in May 1997 the Banking Companies (Recovery of Loans, Advances,
Credits and Finances) Act of 1997. This law provides that a default case be disposed off
in 90 days, otherwise the defaulter would be required to furnish security. Moreover, an
interim decree can be passed by the banking court in respect of undisputed claims.
Attachment of collaterals is permitted before judgment and appointment of a receiver. In
cases where a bank is authorized to recover or take possession of the collateral without
filing a suit, the bank may at its discretion directly recover its loan by selling the
collateral. Finally, the law dispenses with the need for passing a preliminary decree
relating to suits based on mortgages. The banking court, in such cases, is competent to
directly pass a final decree for foreclosure or sale.



- 9 -
32.   Banking Courts Law Reform. Until recently, there were two parallel systems of
bank loan recovery courts: Special Banking Courts (SBCs), with jurisdiction over
interest-based transactions; and Banking Tribunals (BTs), with jurisdiction over non-
interest based (or so-called Islamic) transactions. The system of SBCs and BTs was
replaced by a new unified system of banking courts through the enactment of the Banking
Companies (Recovery of Loans, Advances, Credits and Finances) Act of 1997. Under
the new system, one unified court system deals with the recovery of all loans, whether
interest-based or non-interest based. This Act also creates a more effective two-tier
system, whereby cases up to Rs 30 million are to be tried by the Banking Courts, while
cases above this amount are tried by the High Courts. This division of work was needed
to enable the courts to expedite the disposal of the heavy load of pending recovery cases,
and help the financial institutions to recover their debt quickly.
33.   To increase effective court capacity, the Government established 34 Banking
Courts, pursucant to the new law in major urban centers. Four High Court judges, two in
Punjab and one each in Sindh and Balochistan, to deal exclusively with banking matters,
were also appointed. Adequate capital budgets for the courts to enable them to start up
their operations immediately were made. Satisfactory arrangements for allocating an
annual budget for the courts to enable them to continue to work efficiently were put in
place.
D. Implementation Record
34.   Project implementation was highly satisfactory. The banking reform program
supported by BSAL was designed mainly by the Pakistanis, i.e., the central bank and the
Ministry of Finance. Justifiably, they proclaimed it to be a "home-grown" program.
Decisions were made and actions were taken on their own volition and according to their
own timetable.
35.   The Bank's role consisted principally of providing a global perspective, giving
technical advice to enhance the bankability and market credibility of the program, and
promoting the program to potential co-financiers and donors for support.
36.   A year after the start of program implementation, the reforms have begun to bear
fruits. The hemorrhage, through bad loans and operating losses, has been stemmed.
Liquidity has returned to the banking system. Credit discipline is being restored. The
markets have been convinced that the reform program is for real. One-half of the
defaulted amounts have been settled and 20 percent has been recovered in cash.
37.   Compared to other adjustment loans in Pakistan, this project was prepared in
record time. The loan became effective a few days after signing which took place four
days after Board approval. The single tranche was made available for disbursement upon
effectiveness and was fully disbursed on the same day.



- 10-
E. Project Sustainability
38.   The reforms supported by BSAL have achieved their short-term objective of
stopping the hemorrhage by arresting the flow of bad loans, curtailing loss-making, and
conserving the assets of the banking system. But the program is far from being complete.
BSAL reforms have succeeded in building a temporary dike around the banking system
to insulate it from undue interference. But this temporary structure has to be replaced by
a permanent one for the reforms to be sustainable. The permanent solution to Pakistan's
banking sector problems will stem from achieving internal or corporate governance
through genuine privatization of banks and financial institutions, and external governance
from an effective regulator and supervisor, competitive markets and a well-functioning
legal and judicial system.
39.   More difficult decisions and bold actions are required of the Pakistanis. They
need to pursue defaulters not only to signal their serious intention to restore credit
discipline in the country but also to resolve the huge stock problem and minimize the cost
of resolving it to the budget. This requires firm political resolve because vested interests
are strong. They need to continue to enhance the autonomy and authority of the central
bank and build its capacity to supervise banks and enforce regulations. They need to
continue to clean up the judicial system and improve its effectiveness in dealing with loan
defaults. Authorities have re-affirmed their strong resolve to continue to complete the
banking reform program as drawn up in the Letter of Development Policy. However, in
view of the deep-seated nature of Pakistan's banking sector problems, the banking reform
program can be completed only with substantial external financial and technical
assistance.
40.   Reform sustainability will also be highly dependent on external forces outside the
control of the Government. Regional animosities can divert Pakistan from focusing on
economic reform in general and pursuing the banking reform program in particular. How
soon Pakistan can recover from the effects of the sanctions imposed on it as a result of its
nuclear tests will help determine sustainability. The East Asian financial turmoil will
have an impact on Pakistan's economic performance.
F. Bank Performance
41.   The Bank was responsive to the special circumstances of Pakistan in preparing
this operation. Pakistan was in the middle of a political crisis in late 1996. This
aggravated and heightened the country's balance of payments problem and banking sector
distress. Another political crisis surfaced prior to Board presentation in December 1997
when the judiciary and the government were fighting for supremacy. BSAL was
processed in record time and yet the timetable was dictated by the Pakistanis in the
context of the above-mentioned circumstances.



42.   Project processing was also tailored to Pakistan's circumstances at that time.
While the first preparation mission dealt with the interim government in November 1997
and had to teke lead in program design due to the time and expertise constraint of the
interim government, the Bank was flexible enough to change the approach with the newly
elected government when it wanted to pursue a "home grown" program approach, as
described above. The single tranche approach, with an unusual loan acceleration clause,
was tailor fit to Pakistan's special situation at that time, and to provide leverage to
reformers in the country against strong vested interests.
43.   This project was processed in close collaboration with IMF staff who were
negotiating the ESAF/EFF. Thus stabilization and structural reform measures were
synchronized. Trade-offs between short-term stabilization objectives and long-term
structural reform objectives were debated in full view of the client for his full
information. Such an approach resulted in arriving at good technical decisions, such as in
the approach to "fiscalizing" the quasi-fiscal deficits embedded in the banking sector.
G. Borrower Performance
44.   BSAL is a unique case of a loan supporting a "home grown" program where the
Borrower was in full command of program design and implementation. Decisions were
made and actions were taken by the Borrower on his own. The Borrower was clear about
its responsibilities and knew that BSAL would be approved only after all agreed prior
actions were completed to the Bank's satisfaction. The implementation timetable was
driven solely by the Borrower, while the Bank made sure that all loan documentation was
ready at any tirne the Borrower had complied with all Board presentation conditions.
45.   The Borrower was a willing client. Cooperation was excellent throughout
preparation and implementation. The Borrower, led by the central bank, was convinced
that the measures supported by BSAL were critical not only in stemming the hemorrhage,
but also in achieving an efficient and sound banking sector. However, the reform
program, especiially loan recovery from defaulters, is starting to be stymied by resistance
from stronger vested interest. The Borrower needs to demonstrate the political resolve to
pursue the reforms to full fruition even in face of such opposition.
H. Assessment of Outcome
46.   BSAL's outcomes are as were expected at appraisal. It has helped stem the flow
problem. It has laid down the basis for implementation of a comprehensive banking
reform program in the medium term. With IMF's ESAF/EFF, it supported the
implementation of the agreed stabilization program. However, due to recent political
events, the refonn program, which is still fragile, is at risk. Sustainability of the reform



- 12 -
program will depend, to a large extent, on how soon regional animosities will abate and
how much foreign aid the country will get to complete its stabilization and structural
reformn program.
I. Future Operations
47.   The Region plans to follow-up BSAL with another single tranche operation
(BSAL II) aimed primarily at achieving a permanent solution to the problem of corporate
governance in state-owned banks and DFIs through genuine privatization. This operation
would help meet the cost of resolving the stock problem that remain in these banks.
However, the financial restructuring of these banks would be undertaken only at the point
of sale and after there is a clear-cut reform of governance. Under the proposed project,
while the government will give a legal commitment to potential buyers that the financial
restructuring of the NCBs and DFIs would be undertaken, actual financial restructuring
would be implemented only at the point of sale, after a qualified bidder has been selected.
J. Key Lessons Learned
48.   BSAL provides strong evidence to prove the principle that program ownership
must underpin reform implementation for it to be successful. The banking sector reform
program supported by BSAL was totally designed and implemented by the Pakistanis.
Decisions were made and actions were taken on their own volition. The Bank's main role
was to define program "bankability", i.e., specify the results of reforms that would allow
the Bank to provide substantial financial assistance. The Bank also provided a global
perspective by sharing best practice in banking reforms in other countries, gave
encouragement to reformers when the going became tough due to opposition by vested
interests, and promoted the program to potential co-financiers and donors for support,
resulting in cofinancing by Japan's OECF. Finally, it provided parallel technical
assistance through another project to increase the capacity of concerned agencies
(principally the central bank and the privatization agency) in reform implementation.
49.   The economic crisis or near crisis situation in Pakistan provided the opportunity
for taking strong reform measures. It precipitated a political crisis which resulted in the
election of a government with a very strong electoral mandate. This gave the government
the political capital to mount a strong attack against vested interests. Thus, when political
capital is aplenty, bold reforms must be selected to maximize it. However, gains from
reforms taken in response to a crisis or near crisis have to be consolidated quickly
because, as the crisis eases, vested interests quickly return to slow reforms, if not reverse
them altogether. Pakistan needs to pursue reforms with the same vigor and resolve as
before by spending political capital wisely.



- 13 -
50.   BSAL is among the first projects in the Bank that deal directly with the issue of
governance and corruption. To its credit, the Government did not shy away from
identifying failure of governance and corruption as the root cause of problems in the
banking sector, as its LDP explains. Thus, key reform measures correctly revolved
around insulating the banking system from vested interests, and achieving autonomy for
the financial intermediation function of the economy.
51.   BSAL's preparation was a case of a very close collaborative process with IMF
and the productive partnership that such a collaboration engenders to the benefit of the
client. Conflicts between short-term stabilization and long-term structural measures were
openly discussed between the two institutions and shared with the client. Joint positions
were arrived at not by glossing over these conflicts but by making the trade-offs explicit,
thereby achieving a superior solution. This is illustrated, for example, in the way the
approach to how quasi-fiscal deficits in the banking system would be financed in the
budget was agreed among the Fund, the Bank and the Government. Discussions at the
Fund and Bank Boards recognized how BSAL and ESAF/EFF were mutually reinforcing
and closely interrelated in achieving reform objectives.
52.   BSAL, correctly tackled the flow problem first. By focusing on stemming bad
lending and reducing banking losses, liquidity in the banking system was quickly
restored, easing pressure on interest rates and helping with the economic recovery. The
stock problem will require a medium-term approach since these sunk costs will have to be
financed over time to be fiscally affordable.
53.   Privatization has many objectives (some conflicting), such as revenue generation,
reduced economic activity by the state, private sector development, greater efficiency. In
view of the root causes of the banking problems in Pakistan, the primordial objective,
under which other objectives would subsume, is to achieve improved corporate
governance by selling the NCBs and DFIs to the most reputable and qualified private
investors. To help achieve this objective, participation by reputable international banks
would be encouraged.



- 14-
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.     Achievement of Objectives       Substantial       Partial           Negligible        Not applicable
Macroeconomics policies            (v)              ()                 ()                  ()
Sector policies                     ()              (
Capital market policies             ()              ()                 ()                  ()
Financial objectives                (v)             ()                 ()                  ()
Institutional development           (i)             ()                 ()                  ()
Physical objectives                 ()              ()                 ()                  (i)
Poverty reduction                   ()              ()                 ()                 (i)
Gender concerns                     ()              ()                 ()                  (')
Other social objectives             ()              ()                 ()                  (i)
Environmental objectives            ()              ()                 ()                 (i)
Public sector management           (i)              ()                 ()                  ()
Private sector development         (i)              ()                 ()                  ( )
Other                               ()              ()                 ()                 (i)
B.     Project Sustainabety                   ly                  Unlikely                   Uncertain
(if)                     ()                           ()
C.     Bank Performance                  HighlySatisfacto                                     Defcient
Satisfactory
Identification                     (if)                      ()                          ()
Preparation assistance             (if)                      ()                           ()
Appraisal                          (i)                       ()                          ()
Supervision                        (if)                      ()                          ()
D.     Borrower Performance              Highly                 Satisfactory                  Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                        (i)                       ()                          ()
Implementation                     (i)                       ()                          ()
Covenant compliance                (i)                       ()                          ()
Operation (if applicable)          (i)                       ()                           ()
E.     Assessment of outcome             Highly        Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory       Highly Un-
Satisfactory                                            satisfactory
(if)             ()                 (i                  ()



- 15 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit title                       Purpose                      Year of    Status
Approval             l
Preceding Operations    To support GOP's financial sector reforms by:  3/89     Closed
I. Financial Sector     gearing credit allocation to market signals,            Oil
Adjustment Loan      improving the health and efficiency of the             6/30/92
(FSAL) Ltu 3029-     banking system, and creating a more efficient
PAK                  Government debt system.
2. Financial Sector      To provide term finance for private           11/94    Closing
Deepening and        investments; to continue and deepen the                date is
Intermediation       financial sector reform process started under          12/31/99
Project (FSDIP)      FSAL; and to strengthen regulatory and
Loan 3808-PAK        supervisory institutions.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle              Date planned             Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification/Government Request for               -             October 1996
Assistance
Appraisal                                 November 1996           November 1996
Re-Appraisal I/                           May 1997                May 1997
Negotiations                              September 1997          September 15-16, 1997
Letter of development policy              October 28, 1997        October 28, 1997
Board presentation                        December 1997           December 9, 1997
Signing                                   December 12, 1997       December 12, 1997
Effectiveness                             December 16, 1997       December 16, 1997
First tranche release (A single tranche loan)    December 17, 1997  December 17, 1997
Midtermn review (if applicable)                    NA                       NA
Second (and third) tranche release (if             NA                       NA
applicable)
Project completionr                       March 31, 1998          March 31, 1998
Loan/Credit closing                       March31, 1998           March31, 1998
" Interim government decided to forego negotiating a smaller loan approved by the OC; and newly elected
government requested Bank to reassess its banking reform program and prepare a bigger loan.



- 16-
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
US$ Million
FY98
Appraisal estimate                                   250
Actual                                               250
Actual as % of Estimate                              1 00%/0
Table 5: Status of Main Legal Covenants
Agree-  Section   Covenant  Present   Original     Revised       Description of covenant   Comments
ment               type     status   fulfillment  fulfillment
date        date
Loan    3.01(a)  Financial /  C      throughout               Borrower and the Bank, from
Policy             the project               time to time, to exchange
life                    views on progress achieved in
carrying out the program.
Loan    3.0 1(b   Financial /  C     throughout               Borrower to report to the Bank
& c)    Policy              the project               on progress achieved in
life                    carrying out the program and
exchange views with Bank on
any proposed action to be
taken after disbursement of the
Loan.
Loan    3.02     Financial   C       At the                   At the request of the Bank, the
(a)                          request of               Borrower to have the Deposit
the Bank                 Account audited in accordance
with internationally accepted
accounting standards.
Loan    3.02     Financial   C       At the                   Borrower to furnish to the
(b)                          request of               Bank, as soon as available, but
the Bank                not later than four months
after the date of Bank request
for such audit, a certified copy
of the audit report.
Loan    3.02     Financial   C       At the                   Furnish to the Bank such other
(c)                          request of              information concerning the
the Bank                 Deposit Account and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall have
C__      _ =_     _ Complied with    CD=Comliedwihafterelay Crequested. wtpil NDNted
C =Complied with    CD = Complied with after delay   CP =Complied with partially   NYD =Not yet due



- 17-
Table 6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle      Planned               Revised                    Actual
Weeks   US$        Weeks    US$ (000)"    Weeks    US$ (000)'
Through appraisal                            62.6        260.2         53.5         212.7
Appraisal through
Board approval                               14.1         45.6         14.3         63.8
Board approval
through effectiveness
Supervision                                  47.7         157.8        26.3         79.2
Completion                                   6.0          25.0          6.0         25.0
Total                                        130.4       488.6         98.3         380.7
"The total cost include consultant fees and travel cost.
Table 7: Bank Resources: Missions
Stages of   Month/   No. of    Days    Specialized                                       Types of
Project     Year   Persons    in         staff skills           Performance            Problems
Cycle                         Field    represented                                              l
Implementation Development
Status        Impact
Through       11/96      7        21    Financial and    President's
first                                    PSD Specialist,  Report was
Appraisal                                Economist,      prepared.
Lawyer
Re-           05/97      5        20    Financial and    President's
Appraisal                                PSD Specialist,  Report was
through                                  Economist,    revised and Legal
Board                                    Lawyer         documents were
approval         _                                       prepared.                                  l
Board        09/97 -     5        12    Financial and    Loan was signed,
approval      12/97                      PSD Specialist,  and made
through                                  Economist,      effective within a
effectivenes                             Lawyer          week after
s                 _                                      approval                                   l
Supervision    04/98     2         5     Financial and    Reforms were     Satisfactory
PSD Specialist,  found intact and
Economist,     progress
___________    ____ _  ________  Lawyer  satisfactory
Completion    done
during
supervi
-sion



-18-
ANNEX
D.O.No.2(10) Bkg (R&S)/98-% 3 
MohammadYunis Khan
AddL Finance Secretarg(F) f
v o            Tele: 9211518
.-A"kau4dz tA 27th November j98
Subject: IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (IaCR)
BANKNG SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (BSAL).
Dear Mr. Abid Hasan
Please refer to your letter dated 11-81998 forwarding therewith draft
implementation completion report (ICR).
2.         ICR was examined in consultation with State Bank of Pakistan.
A statement reflecting our comments thereon, is enclosed.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,
( Mohammad Yunis Khan)
Mr. Abid Hasan
Acting Country Director
South Asia Region
The World Bank Resident Mission
Islamabad.



Sommnuet of Pakistan
Finance Division
(Internal Finance Wing)
* F**** **
SUBJECT:- IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) BANKING
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (BSAL).
PART 'C' OF THE WORLD BANK REPORT
WORLD BANK'S REPORT            GOVERNMENT'S COMMENTS
SHORT TERM MEASURES
10.   Arresting  the Flow of      No  comments.  The  contents
Bad    LoaLns.    The    most     of the World Bank  paragraph
pressing  need was  to  stop      require no change.
the   hemcirrhage   and    to
prevent the situation from
deteriorating. Based on an
analysis of the 250  largest
defaulters, the main source
of default was identified
to be project lending by
the NCBs. So the Government
as  owner,  instructed   the
NCBs to refrain from making
new   projiect   loans   from
December 11996 to June 1997.
In    January   1997,    SBP
required the new management
of the NCBs and DFIs to
tighten   lending   policies
and practices.
iI.     Preventing   Further      No  comments.  The  contents
Deterioration  of  NCBs  and      of the World Bank  paragraph
DFIs.  To improve  corporate      require no change.
governance, the management
and boards of the NCBs and
DFIs  were  replaced.   More
importantly, the process of
their    appointment      and
removal was changed through
an amendment in the law to
insulate it from   political
interference.  This   reform
resulted in the appointment
of   expatriate    Pakistani
bankers,     working       in
reoutable      international
banks, as presidents, and
professional.s    from    the
priivate   sector  as   board
members.     Given       full
autonomy   in   recruitment,
the new management



-: 2
succeeded  in  bringing   in
second   and   third   layer
managers from the private
sector to revamp the whole
management team.
12.         As      caretaker
management    until    these       No  comments.  The  contents
institutions are  privatize,       of the World Bank  paragraph
the  new management  of  the       require no change.
NCBs and DFIs were required
to     implement       action
programs, approved by SBP,
aimed at conserving assets,
reducing  cpst,   downsizing
staff     and       branches,
increasing  loan   recovery,
and   limiting   lending  to
borrowers   that - have   no
default   with   any   other
bank. The key mandate was
to       prepare        these
institutions              for
privatization according to
an agreed timetable.
13.   Reducing  the Stock of       The    paragraph    may   be
Non-Performing   Loans.    A       substituted   to   read   as
three pronged loan  recovery       under :-
program  was  launched.  The       A    three    pronged   loan
first   was   an   "amnesty"       recovery      program     was
program    through      which      launched.
defaulters and "sick units"
were  given  incentives   to       -The  first  was   "amnesty"
settle    their    overdues.       program    through      which
Under   this   program  some       defaulters  and "sick units"
34,000  defaulters  and  770       were  given  incentives   to
sick   units   with    loans       settle    their    overdues.
amounting    to    Rs   28.5       Under   the  loan  Incentive
billion    and    Rs    34.4       scheme   total   of    39287
billion, respectively,  were       borrowers    committed    to
covered. The second was  the       repay    Rs   15.5   billion
mandatory  filing  with, the       against    an    outstanding
new   banking   courts    of       amount of  Rs 27.1  billion.
default   cases   of   those       However,  Rs  4.166  billion
borrowers who  did not  take       were  recovered.  Under  the
advantage  of  the   amnesty       scheme for  revival of  sick
program   by  September  30,       units,  305  cases involving
1997. These defaulters  were       an   amount   of   Rs   15.4
pursued with benefit of  the       billion were settled.
new loan recovery law which
strengthened  the  hands  of       -The  second  was  mandatory
the  banks and  DFIs in loan       filing with the new  Banking
recovery.  Under  the  third       Courts   of   the   defaults
prong,    asset      recovery      cases  of those  defaulters,
departments of the NCBs  and       who did  not take  advantage
of amnesty program by



-: 3
DFIs  were strengthened  and       September  5,  1997.   These
placed       under        new      defaulters were required  to
management. As  of June  30,       be,pursued under the new
1998,  total  cash  recovery       recovery      law       which
had   amounted  to   Rs   28       strengthened  the  hands  of
billion,  or 20  percent  of       the  banks and  DFIs in loan
total defaults.                    recovery.
-Under   the   third  prong,
asset recovery departments
of   NCBs  and   DFIs   were
strengthened   and    placed
under the new management.
During the past 19 months
over Rs 30 billion (20S of
total  default)  have   been
recovered     which      also
included   recovery   of  Rs
4.166  billion  made   under
the incentive scheme.
14.  Reducing Political  and
Social     Costs.       Until
recently,   all   the   five
large   institutions  to  be
sold      were        heavily
overstaffed while the  three       No  comments,  except   that
NCBs  had  by far  too  many       about  23000  employees were
branches  to  ever   achieve       separated from the NCBs  and
reasonablie   profitability.       DFIs.
Overstaffing              and
overbranching  were   caused
by  politiLcal   interference
and could be resolved only
with   political    backing.
Moreover,   the    employees
were  organized  by militant
and     corrupt labor unions
that      have       resisted
downsizing. It would have
been  difficult  to  attract
bonafide    investors    buy
these    institutions    had
these social and political
costs   not   been   removed
first so that their values
could be more transparently
estimated    on      business
grounds.   Thus,   prior  to
privatization,  the   staffs
and   branches   of    these
institutions             were
rationalized in accordance
with plans agreed with SBP.
Because    of    anticipated
resistance from the labor
unions, downsizing was done
principally through



-: 4
voluntary  separation   with
the help of an attractive
severance payment program.
Through this program 20,000
employees, or 25 percent of
total  staff, were separated
from  the NCBs and DFIs. The
rupee  counterpart  of   the
proposed  Loan was  used  to
help  to   finance  the cost
of  the  severance   payment
program which amounted to
the equivalent of about US$
350 million an an after-tax
basis.
Strenothening      Prudential
Regulations   and    Banking
Supervision.
15.     The  goal  of  these
reforms  was  to  develop  a       No  comments.  The  contents
regulatory  and  supervisory       of the World Bank  paragraph
system      that        would      require no change.
accurately    assess      the
condition   of   banks   and
deposit  taking  NBFIs   and
where  problems  exist, take
action to rectify them. The
system    would    prescribe
capital   standards,    loan
classification            and
provisioning           norms,
exposure limits, accounting
and auditing standards, and
report-ing     requirements,
consistent               with
international standards and
assure that such policies
ape pursued by banks and
NBFIs. Supervision would be
carried out with qualified
staff,  and   it  would   be
implemented    through    an
approoriate mixture of on-
site examinations and off-
site analytical activities.
16.    Capital Requirements.       The following  may be  added
To  strengthen the  system's       at the end of para 16 :-
capital  base  and   achieve
international   consistency,       - under the revised  Minimum
Pakistan moved to the  Basle       Capital   Requirements   for
system  of defining  minimum       banks      since       issued
capital   requirements.   In       effective      from      31st
preparation for this  change       December  1997,  all   banks
operating in Pakistan



- 5
of regime,  SBP undertook  a       are  required  to   maintain
study  Ito  determine   the        capital   and   unencumbered
impact  of the  new  capital       general  reserves, the value
adequacy regulations on  all       of  which  is not  less than
banks  in Pakistan.  Foreign       8%  of  the  risk   weighted
banks  and  domestic private       assets.  Additionally,  they
banks  were found to have no       are    also   required    to
difficulty   in    complying       achieve  a minimum  paid  up
with       the        revised      capital  level  of  Rs   500
regulations,  but  partially       million  by  31st  December,
privatized  banks  and   the       1$98.
NCBs   would.    Considering
that  the   NCBs  would   be       -While   all   private   and
privatized, compliance  with       foreign   banks   meet   the
revised  capital   standards       minimum   capital   adequacy
would  be made  a  condition       requirement  of 8%  of  risk
f or    privatization,    and      weighted      assets      the
achievement    of    capital       Nationalized       Commercial
adequacy  would  be   agreed       Banks  (NCBs)  do  not  meet
with    t:he       successful      the said requirement.
bidders.    Similarly,      a
timetable for compliance  by       -In    order   to    improve
the   part:ially   privatized      capital  adequacy  ratio  of
banks was issued by SBP.           UBL  and  HBL to  around 4%,
SBP  has   injected  Rs   21
billion and Rs 9.7 billion
respectively as additional
equity   in   these   banks.
Hopefully, the ratio will
further improve, once the
conditionalities  associated
with   capital    injection,
imposed by State Bank are
fully   met.  The   progress
towards  implementation   of
these  conditionalities   by
the  two   banks  is   being
closely  monitored  by   the
State Bank.
17.       Interest    Income
Accrual    on      Delinquent
Loans.    Llntil    recently,      No  comments.  The  contents
interest  income   continued       of the World Bank  paragraph
to be  accrued on  long-term       require no change.
loans  delinquent  for   180
days.    This   served    to
overstate     income      and
understate   the   attention
that    troubled      credits
should receive. SBP issued
instructions  to the  effect
that   interest   on   loans
delinquent beyond 90 days
will cease t:o be recognized
as   income-P  and    income
accrued in the previous 90
days will be reversed.



6
la.    Loan  Concentrations.      No  comments.  The  contents
Single  borrower  limits for      of the World Bank  paragraph
commercial   banks  are   20      require no change.
percent   of   capital   for
fund-based exposure and 30
percent    of     unimpaired
capital  and  reserves   for
total    exposure.      These
limits are reasonable and
consistent               with
international     standards.
However, a single borrower,
if it is a listed company,
was allowed to borrow up to
20 percent of the assets of
a     non-bank     financial
institution.    This      was
excessive  and  could   have
created a situation where
default    by    a    single
borrower could potentially
lead to the insolvency in
an NBFI. Accordingly, SBP
revised             relevant
regulations   to  make   the
single borrower limits of
deposit-taking          NBFIs
consistent  with  those   of
commercial banks.
i9.   Reporting,  Disclosure
and  Off-Site   Supervision.      No  comments.  The  contents
The   banking    supervision      of the World Bank  paragraph
system  of   SBP  is   being      require no change.
revamped. Information from
the early warning system,
off-site  surveillance   and
on-site inspection is being
integrated and focuse& on
risk  analysis. In  addition
to an  income report,  ,banks
are now required to report
balance  sheet  data  in   a
more   simple,   transparent
format that would include
current   figures  on   non-
performing     loans      and
estimated           required
provisions. SBP has revised
reporting requirements for
banks  that  are  based   on
accounting         standards
consistent               with
international   norms.   SBP
has   required   banks    to
report provisioning



-: 7 :-
requirements              and
appropriately adjusted net
income  and  net  worth   in
1996,   based  on   year-end
1997   reports.   Once   the
quality   of  reporting   is
satisfactory,             the
information from individual
bank reports will be made
available to the public in
an   effort  to   make   the
overall   financial   system
more     transparent      and
subject  to  greater  market
discipline.
20.  Bank Examinations.  SBP       The    following    may   be
is   benefiting  -from   the       inserted  in  para 20  at an
assistance        oDf       an     appropriate place :-
international      consulting
team, financed by the  Bank,       Ms.   Arthur  Andersen   are
which   is   assisting    in       upgrading  the   supervisory
modernizing and  reorienting       system.  They  will  provide
on-site  bank   examinations       training to 72 middle  level
in Pakistan. The  assistance       officers  in  USA   shortly.
includes  participating   in       Eight  top  Executives  have
on-site          examination,      already    been      provided
developing  a   satisfactory       training in USA recently.
examination   manual    that
focuses on bank risk and
performance!      and       an
appropriate       examination
report    and      initiating
training efforts to enable
examination   staff  to  act
effectively in the future.
SBP  has  started  a   crash
recruitment   and   training
program   to   improve   its
short term and long term
staffing    situation.      0
qualified  and   experienced
middle   level  staff   were
recently recruited for the
bank              supervision
departments to achieve some
level      of       expertise
immediately. In addition,



-: 8 :
SBP recruited about 130 new
graduates (54 with MBA/MA
degrees), put them through
a    rigorous   six    month
theoretical  and   practical
training    program,      and
assigned them to the bank
supervision departments.
Promoting Market
Integration
1.    The  main  causes  of        No  comments.  The  contents
market   segmentation   have       of the World Bank  paragraph
been the  control on  yields       require no change.
on   government   securities
through  a  control  on  the
volume   of   auctions,  the
high   statutory - liquidity
reserve   requirement    for
banks to provide a captive
market   for    low-yielding
government securities, the
administered   rate  on  the
National   Savings   Schemes
and interest subsidies for
the      Special       Credit
Programs.   Another    major
source       of        market
segmentation,             the
subsidized forward foreign
exchange cover on FCDs by
SBP, is being reformed with
the assistance of the IMF.
2.     Statutory  Liquidity       No  comments.  The  contents
Reserve  Recuirements  (SLR)       of the World Bank  paragraph
and  Auctions of  Government       require no change.
Securities. Until recently,
banks   were   required   to
invest 25 percent of their
demand   and   time  deposit
liabilities   in    approved
securities,            mMinly
consisting    of   6   month
treasury   bills   (replaced
with   short-term    federal
bonds since July 1, 1996)
and   medium  to   long-term
federal  investment   bonds.
This requirement made banks
a captive market for public
debt instruments, enabling
the   Government  to  borrow
from the banking system at
below market interest



- 9
rates.  Interest  rates   on
government securities were
further   administered    by
cutting   cff  auctions   at
pre-determined        cut-off
rates. SBP reduced the SLR
by five percentage points
to 20 percent before Board
presentation.   It   further
reduced it to 18 percent,
and more recently, further
to  1S percent,.  SBP  plans
to further reduce the SLR
over an appropriate period
of time to a level required
for   prudential    purposes
only. At the same time, SBP
has started the practice of
pre-announcing  the   volume
oF    securities    to    be
auctioned   each   time  and
allowing     the      bidding
process  to  determine   the
yield on T-bill.
23.       National    Saving      The  Central Directorate  of
Schemes.  The interest rates      National  Savings (CDNS) has
on National Savings  Schemes      been providing a variety  of
(NSS) acquired  on or  after      deposit  facilities  to  the
November 13, 1996 have  been      public.  These schemes offer
increased to facilitate  the      higher rates  of return  and
Government's borrowing  from      enjoy       certain        tax
the  non-bink market.  On  3      concessions.   Indeed    the
year     Special       Saving     differential  in  the  rates
Certificates    (registered)      offered on National  Savings
the rate has been  increased      Schemes  available  to  non-
from   15  percent   to   16      bank  and  other  government
percent p.a.  for the  first      borrowing         instruments
two  and  a  half  year  and      available  to banking sector
from   17  percent   to   18    has led to segmentation  and
percent  for  the  last  six      disintermediation.  However,
months.  Thie compound annual     the  proposed  reduction  in
rate   on  10-year   Defence      the   rates   of   NSS   and
Savings   Certificates   has      rationalization  their   tax
been   increased   from   16      treatment       may       have
percent   to   18   percent.      implications   for   private
Similarly  value  of  prizes      savings    and    government
available   in   the   Prize      budgetary  borrowing   since
Bonds   Scheme   has    been      the   government  has   been
substantially      increased.     drawing a  major portion  of
These      changes       have     its    domestic    borrowing
increased  the  differential      through non-bank sources.
between    the   rates    on
National   Savings   Schemes
available to the non-bank



-: 10
public and on public debt
instruments   (short    term
Federal Bonds and medium to
long      term        Federal
Investment  Bonds)  held  by
the    banks,      increasing
disintermediation,
Favourable tax treatment on
NSS has further increased
the wedge between the two
market segments. To reduce
market   segmentation    and
disintermediation,        the
Government is committed to
benchmark the NSS yields on
market determined rates for
government   securities   oF
similar maturiti-es, taking
accounts    of      differing
transaction  costs,  and  to
rationalize    their      tax
treatment under a program
agreed with ADB.                   No  comments.  The  contents
of the World Bank paragraph
24.        Special    Credit       require no change.
Programs.   Mandatory    and
concessional           credit
programs   were   meant   to
direct   credit  to  sectors
and  clients  with   limited
access. However, low rates
of interest have lead to
rationing    of    available
credit     on       political
grounds,   usually   at  the
expense   of  the   intended
beneficiaries.  In  view  of
the     above,    SBP    has
eliminated  new funding  for
most programs.  In the  case
of  agriculture lending, SBP
has   stopped   making   new
loans  through   refinahcing
to     the      Agricultural
Development     Bank        of
Pakistan,    although    the
latter continues to recycle
some  of  its   agricultural
credits     while      slowly
repaying SBP. In the case
of the locally manufactured
machinery  lending   scheme,
the lending rate has been
raised and the program has
steadily     declined       in
nnminal tsar-men



25.    Currently,  the  only       Currently,      the       only
significant   program    for       significant   program    for
which   concessionary    SBP       which   concessionary    SBP
refinancing      is     being      refinancing      is      being
provided       is      export      provided       is       Export
financing. Due  to the  need       Financing. Due  to the  need
to  boost  export,  SBP  did       to  boost  export,  SBP  did
not consider  its timely  to       not  consider it  timely  to
phase   out   this   scheme,       phase  out this  scheme.  At
until   other   alternatives       present  the  SBP is  in the
can  be  found.  Considering       process   of  reviewing  the
its  complexity, this  issue       existing   instructions   on
will be assessed  thoroughly       Export  Finance Scheme.  The
and      needed       reforms      revised  scheme would entail
undertaken under a  proposed       the provisions of  financing
trade   policy  and   export       to  all entities  generating
promotion project.  Overall,       exports i.e. for direct  and
the absolute amount and  the       indirect   exporters,   with
share    of    concessionary       more    stress    on       the
financingi tc  total private       availability  of funds under
sector financing  (including       the   scheme,   to    small,
export    financing)      has      medium      and      emerging
declined  significantly as a       enterprises/exporters.
consequence  of  the   above       Considering its  complexity,
mentioned reform measures.         this issue will be  assessed
thoroughly,    and    needed
Improving Legal  and          reforms  undertaken under  a
Judicial Enforcement  of           proposed  trade  policy  and
Financial Contracts.               export promotion project.
26.  The goal.  of legal  and      No  comments.  The  contents
judicial ;-efcrm  was to  (a)      of the World Bank  paragraph
insulate         state-owned       requiLre no change.
financial institutions and
the central 5ank from undue
interference:             (b)
facilitate the process by
which     all       financial
institutions    can      gain
control      over       their
collateral,   and    enforce
other  lecal  and   judicial
remedies    soeedily      and
cheaply.
27.    Banking  Institutions       No   comments,  except  that
Law    Reform.    While    a       the  month  "February  1997"
significant   part  of   the       appearing  in line  3  (page
banking   system   is  still       8)  may  be  substituted  by
owned  by the  state,  there       "January   1997".    Further
was  need  to  insulate   it       "May,   1997  appearing   in
from undue  interference  to       line   6  (page  8)  may  be
enable  it  to  function  on       substituted  by   "May/June,
commercial   grounds.    The       1997".
central   bank,   which  has
also been subject to such



-: 12
inter+erence  in  the   past
needed    to    be      given
sufficient   autonomy    and
authority.   The    Pakistan
Banking Council an arm of
the   Ministry   of  Finance
also needed to be abolished
to   make   SBP   the   sole
regulatory and supervisory
agency   of   the    banking
sector.   To  effect   these
reforms     the       interim
government            adopted
appropriate  ordinances   in
February 1997 amending the
State Bank of Pakistan Act,
1956, the Banking Companies
Ordinance   1962   and   the
Banks       (Nationalization)
Act, 1974. These ordinances
were  subsequently   enacted
into law by Parliament in
May 199?.
28.         Collateral   and
Foreclosure Law Reform. A
modern      and        simple      No comments.   The  contents
collateral  foreclosure  law       of the World Bank  paragraph
was  needed  to   facilitate       require no change.
the    banks'   efforts   at
qaining  control  of   their
security   and    recovering
debt.  Under such a law, the
charge     would       become
immediately       enforceable
upon   failure  to   pay   a
secured debt, enabling the
chargeholder      to     take
immediate  possession of the
charged  property,  and   to
sell the charged property,
upon the expiry a suitable
notice period, and to apply
the proceeds of the sale to
the    discharge    of   the
secured     debt.       Court
remedies would be available
to    the    charger,    the
chargeholder and any third
party   (e.g.   a    tenant)
claiming an interest in the
charged  property  for   the
protection of their rights
under the law.



-: 13
29.   Considering that a new      No  comments.  The  contents
colIateral  law  would  take      of the World Bank  paragraph
time  to) draft  and  enact,      require no change.
the current law was amended
to facilitate the exercise
by lenders of their right
to    sell    a    mortgaged
property     without      the
intervention of the court,
and to apply the proceeds
of   the    sale   to    the
repayment of a mortgage or
the  payment  of  debt.   To
effect  these  reforms,  the
Parliament   passed  in  May
1997 the Banking Comoanies
(Recovery     of      Loans,
Advances,    Credits      and
Finances) Act of -199?.  This
law provides that a default
case be disposed off in 90
days,     otherwise       the
defaulter would be reauired
to     furnish     security.
Moreover, an interim decree
can   be   passed   by   the
banking court in respect of
undisputed            claims.
Attachment of collateral  is
permitted  be-ore  juduement
and    appointment   of    a
receiver. In cases where as
bank    is   authorized   to
recover or take possession
of the collateral without
filing  a suit, the bank may
as  its cliscretion  directly
recover its loan by  selling
the   collateral.   Finally,
the law dispenses with the
need    for    passing      a
preliminary decree  relating
to     suits    based      on
mortgages.    The    bahking
court  in  such  cases,   is
comoetent to directly pass
a    f inal    decree     for
foreclosure of sale.
101     Banking  Courts  Law      No  comments.  The  contents
Reforms.   Until   recently,      of the World Bank  paragraph
there   were  two   parallel      require no change.
systems    of   bank    loan
recovery   courts:   Soecial
Bankina Courts (SBCs), with
jurisdiction over interest-
based   transactions;    and
Banking Tribunals (BTs),



-: 14
with jurisdiction over non-
interest   based   (or   so-
called               Islamic)
transactions. The system of
SBCs and BTs was replaced
by a new unified system of
banking courts through the
enactment  of  the   Banking
Comoanies    (Recovery    oF
Loans,   Advances,   Credits
and Finances) Act of 1997.
Under the new system, one
unified court system deals
with the recovery of all
loans,   whether   interest-
based    or      non-interest
based.    This   Act    also
creates   a  more  effective
two-tier   system,   whereby
cases  up  to Rs  30 million
are   to  be  tried  by  the
Bankina Courts, while cases
above this amount are tried
by the High Courts. This
division of work was needed
to  enable  the  courts   to
expedite   the  disposal  of
the heavy load of pending
recovery  cases,  and   help
the financial institutions
to   recover   their    debt
quickly.
31.    To increase effective       Para may  be substituted  as
count     capacity,       the      under    subject   to    the
Government  established   34       confirmation      by       the
Banking Courts, pursuant  to       Government  with  regard  to
the  new law  in major urban       budget portion
centers.   Four  High  Court       "To    increase    effective
Judges  each in  Punjab  and       court      capacity,       the
Sindh  and one  each in NWFP       Government  established   34
and   Balochistan   to  deal       Banking  Court,  pursuant to
exclusively   with   bankina       the  new law  in major urban
matters,       were      'also     centers.  Four  High   Court
appointed. Adequate  capital       Judges  i.e. two  in  Punjab
budgets  for the  courts  to       and  one  each in  Sind  and
enable  them  to  start   up       Baluchistan,  to  deal  with
their              operations      banking  matter,  were  also
immediately    were    made.       nominated. Adequate  capital
Satisfactory    arrangements       budget  fbr  the  courts  to
for   allocatinc  an  annual       enable  them  to  start   up
budget  for  the  courts  to       their              operations
enable them  to continue  to       immediately    were    made.
work  efficiently  were  put       Satisfactory    arrangements
in place.                          for  allocating  an   annual
budget for the courts to
enable them to continue to
work efficiently were put
in place."



