Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7173 PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$250 MILLION
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
BANKING SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
November 7, 1997
Finance and Private Sector Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Pakistani Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 44.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ABL           Allied Bank Limited
ADB           Asian Development Bank
BEL           Bankers Equity Limited
BSAL          Banking Sector Adjustment Loan
BT            Banking Tribunal
DFI           Development Finance Institution
EFF           Extended Fund Facility
ESAF          Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
FCD           Foreign Currency Deposit
GOP           Government of Pakistan
GST           General Sales Tax
HBL           Habib Bank Limited
IDBP          Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IMF           International Monetary Fund
LDP           Letter of Development Policy
MCB           Muslim Commercial Bank
NBFI          Non-Bank Financial Institution
NBP           National Bank of Pakistan
NCB           Nationalized Commercial Bank
NDFC          National Development Finance Corporation
NFC           National Finance Commission
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NSS           National Saving Schemes
OECF          Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PBC           Pakistan Banking Council
PC            Privatization Commission
PICIC         Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corp. Ltd.
PML-N         Pakistan Muslim League
ROA           Return on Asset
ROE           Return on Equity
SAP           Social Action Program
SBC           Special Banking Court
SBP           State Bank of Pakistan
SCL           Single Currency Loan
SLR           Statutory Liquidity Reserve Requirements
SMP           Staff-Monitored Program
UBL           United Bank Limited
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN - FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
Vice President:                     Ms. Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:                  Mr. Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Manager:                     Ms. Marilou Uy
Principal Financial Specialist:     Mr. Joseph Pernia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
PROPOSED BANKING SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:         Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:           US$250 million
Terms:            Single Currency Loan (SCL) in US Dollars for 20 years,
including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable
US Dollar SCL interest rate
Description:      The proposed Loan would provide balance of payments
assistance to the Government of Pakistan in implementing a
stabilization program and structural reforms in a distressed
banking sector in face of a difficult external position. This
operation would support implementation of major short-term
reform measures in the banking sector that have arrested the
deterioration, prevented a crisis, and placed the implementation
of a medium-term reform program on an irreversible path. The
G6vernment's commitment to the medium-term program is laid
out in a Letter of Development Policy.
Benefits
and Risks:        The reform measures have stemmed the flow of bad loans,
curtailed loss-making, and conserved the assets of the
Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCB) and Development
Finance Institutions (DFI), while they are being prepared for
privatization. Major defaulters are being aggressively pursued to
maximize loan recoveries as well as signal the Government's
resolve to end the default culture. Major market distortions are
being removed to promote greater market integration. Prudential
regulations and financial disclosure requirements are being
revised to international standards to increase transparency.
Appropriate laws have been recently enacted to help insulate the
NCBs and DFIs from political interference, enhance the authority
and autonomy of the central bank, facilitate the foreclosure of
loan collaterals, and unify the banking court system. Finally,
capacity expansion in the central bank and the courts is being
undertaken to enable them to provide governance and impose
financial discipline.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



The risks are high. The external environment continues to be
difficult, with the downgrading of the country's credit rating.
The country's capacity to borrow domestically and
internationally is already stretched. The real sector is
experiencing a recession. A political backlash on the downsizing
of the NCBs and DFIs could make the program more difficult to
implement. These economic and social uncertainties could
stymie implementation of the agreed stabilization and structural
reform program, and weaken the resolve to pursue it to full
fruition. However, the current government enjoys an absolute
majority, having won a landslide victory in the February 1997
elections. The strong package of reforms taken before Board
presentation would provide the momentum that would make
reversal of reforms less likely. Continued implementation of the
agreed stabilization program is another measure of commitment
to reforms. There is growing public awareness that the options
for Pakistan are limited and that reforms must be implemented
since the alternative could be economic and social upheaval. In
the event that, despite risk management, reforms are reversed or
materially changed, a loan acceleration clause would allow the
Bank to demand immediate repayment of the proposed loan by
the Borrower.
Poverty Category:  N.A.
Estimated
Disbursements:    The loan would be disbursed in one tranche on effectiveness. All
funds are expected to be disbursed by December 31, 1997.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
PROPOSED BANKING SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. INTRODUCTION ..................................1
II. POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT                          .2
A.  Recent Political Developments                 .2
B. Macroeconomic Framework                       .2
III. THE BANKING SECTOR                             ..6
A.  Overview of the Banking Sector                 .6
Table 1: Key Ratios by Banking Group            .8
Table 2: Ownership of the Industrial DFIs        .9
Table 3: FY90 and FY96 Loan Disbursements .                     10
B.    Major Problems of the Banking Sector   .......................... 10
IV. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM .14
A.   Overall Approach and Short-Term Measures .14
B.   Reforming Governance through Privatization .15
Table 4: Highlights of NCBs and DFIs .16
Table 5: Privatization Plait Summary ... .
C.    Strengthening Prudential Regulations and Banking Supervision .18
D.  Promoting Market Integration .22
E.    Improving Legal and Judicial Enforcement
of Financial Contracts .24
F. Cost of the Program .27
Table 6: Cost of the Program .28
V. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN .29
A.   Country Assistance Strategy
and Rationale for Bank Involvement .29
B.    Conditions for Board Presentation .......................        30
C.   External Financing Requirements, Creditworthiness
and Exposure .30
D. Loan Administration .32
E. Benefits and Risks .32



Page No.
VI. RECOMMENDATION ...............                                                                                      33
Annex 1             Letter of Development Policy ...................................                         34
Annex 2             Policy Matrix - Conditions for Board Presentation .........................  48
Annex 3              Economic Projections ...................................                                52
Schedule C          Timetable of Key Processing Events ...................................                   67
Schedule D          Status of Bank Group Operations in Pakistan .................................   68
Schedule E          Pakistan at a Glance ...................................                                 72
MAP - IBRD 16248R4



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
BANKING SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Banking Sector
Adjustment Loan (BSAL) to the Islarnic Republic of Pakistan in support of a program of reforms
to stabilize the economy and restructure the banking sector. The proposed Loan in the amount of
US$250 million would be made to Islamic Republic of Pakistan through the Ministry of Finance.
At the request of the Govermnent and consistent with the external debt management policy of the
country, the Loan would be a Single Currency Loan (SCL) in US Dollars for 20 years, including
a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable US Dollar SCL interest rate.
1.02        The problems of the banking sector are rooted in a failure of governance and lack
of financial discipline owing to undue political interference in the financial intermediation
process, especially in the recent past. They are, therefore, deep-seated and will require persistent
efforts over the medium term to resolve. However, immediate measures are needed to arrest the
deterioration. Otherwise, the state of the banking sector could further deteriorate from one of.
distress to that of a crisis, especially since Pakistan is currently facing a difficult external
position, with foreign reserves heavily dependent on volatile foreign currency deposits.
1.03        BSAL would support implementation of major short-term reforms in the banking
sector that have arrested the flow of bad loans, curtailed loss-making, and conserved the assets of
the Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCB) and the Development Finance Institutions (DFI),
while they are being prepared for privatization. Prudential regulations and financial disclosure
standards are being brought to international levels to increase transparency. Market distortions
are being reduced to increase the efficiency of financial intermediation. And, legal and judicial
processes are being strengthened to enable a more effective enforcement of financial contracts.
These reform measures are not only critically needed to stop the hemorrhage. They would also
lay the basis for the implementation of a medium-term program that would deal with the stock of
bad loans, install good governance through a comprehensive privatization program, strengthen
banking supervision, and build the capacity of the legal and judicial system for financial
contracts enforcement. In doing so, they would strengthen the macroeconomic situation by
reducing growing quasi-fiscal deficits and averting a banking crisis. The Government's
commitment to such a medium-term program is spelt out in its Letter of Development Policy
(LDP).
1.04        This report is organized as follows. The recent political developments and the
macroeconomic program are discussed in Section II. An overview of the banking sector and an
analysis of its main problems are discussed in Section III. The structural reform measures
supported by BSAL and the elements of the medium-term reform program contained in the LDP



-2 -
are laid out in Section IV. Section V explains the Bank's assistance strategy, the rationale for
Bank involvement, the conditions of the proposed loan and the country's creditworthiness.
II. POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC CONTEXT
A. Recent Political Developments
2.01        Citing corruption and economic mismanagement, the President of Pakistan
dismissed Benazir Bhutto's government on November 5, 1996, dissolved parliament, and called
for new elections. A caretaker government was appointed with the mandate to prepare for
elections, enforce accountability, address governance issues and arrest the economic slide. The
caretaker government focused its attention on stabilizing the economy, stemming the
deterioration in the balance of payments, and holding elections on schedule.
2.02        On February 3, 1997, the Pakistan Muslim League (PML-N), headed by former
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, captured a majority of seats in the National Assembly, gained a
majority of the provincial assembly seats in Punjab, the largest of the country's four provinces,
and entered into coalition governments in Sindh and the North West Frontier Province. Only in
Balochistan, the country's least populous province, is the PML-N not represented in the
government. With a strong electoral mandate, the new government has been able to move an
ambitious legislative agenda through Parliament to promote political and economic reforms.
Confidence among the business community appears to have been restored as evidenced by the
recent recovery in the stock market. However, general lawlessness, especially in the main city of
Karachi, has resurfaced due mainly to traditional ethnic animosities, religious conflicts and
political rivalries. Although some measures are being taken to address it, including recent
legislation designed to contain terrorism, this problem, plus unresolved accountability cases
against prominent individuals, could get in the way of a more rapid political healing, which, in
turn, could delay needed reforms and undermine economic recovery.
B. Macroeconomic Framework
2.03        Recent Macroeconomic Developments. Pakistan's macroeconomic situation
deteriorated substantially over the last two years due to the poor economic policies of the
previous elected government and the ensuing political crisis which resulted in its dismissal in
November 1996. The pace of economic growth slowed from about 5 percent in 1994/95 to 4.8
percent in 1995/96 and to only 3.1 percent in 1996/97. Growth performance of agriculture has
been disappointing and manufacturing has been in a recession, with real value added in large-
scale manufacturing falling by an estimated 2 percent in 1996/97. Over the last three years, the
investment to GDP ratio has fallen from about 19.4 percent in 1993/94 to 18.2 percent in
1996/97 despite a significant increase in private investment in the energy sector. The ratio of
gross national savings to GDP has declined from 15.8 percent to 11.8 percent in the same period.



-3 -
2.04        In addition, the fiscal and the current account deficits increased to unsustainably
high levels. Mainly because of weak revenue collection, rising interest payments, and large
defense outlays, the budget deficit (excluding non-budgetary public enterprises) increased from
5.7 percent of GDP in 1994/95 to 6.9 percent in 1995/96 and was an estimated 6.1 percent in
1996/97. In addition, the non-budgetary deficit of public corporations is estimated to have risen
to about 2.6 percent of GDP. Increased government reliance on bank borrowing has pushed up
the growth in net domestic assets of the banking system. Although domestic liquidity growth has
been dampened by a sharp decline in net foreign assets, it nevertheless has accelerated in the past
fiscal year. As a result, the CPI-based inflation rose from less than 10 percent in mid-1996 to an
average of 11.8 percent in 1996/97.
2.05        The deficit in the current account of the balance of payments rose sharply from
3.9 percent of GDP in 1994/95 to 6.8 percent of GDP in 1995/96, and is estimated at 6.4 percent
in 1996/97. As a result, the level of official reserves has fallen by about US$2.7 billion over the
last two years to about US$600 million in December 1996 before recovering to about US$1.5
billion (6.5 weeks of imports) as of late September 1997. Poor export performance has been the
main factor behind the sharp deterioration in the external position, and the real effective
exchange rate appreciation has hurt exports. The recent devaluation of 8.7 percent will help to
restore competitiveness to some extent. Due to large scale short-term borrowing and continued
dependence on foreign currency deposits (FCDs) for financing of the balance of payments, the
stock of short-term foreign currency liabilities of the banking system has increased from US$9
billion to US$11 billion. The banking sector, which is suffering from a large stock of bad loans
(around 25 percent of assets), is highly vulnerable to balance of payments difficulties,
particularly through potential outflows from FCDs.
2.06        Recent Progress on Structural Reforms. The interim government (November
1996 to February 1997) succeeded in arresting further deterioration in Pakistan's fiscal and
balance of payments situation and preventing a potential foreign exchange and banking crisis.
However, this was achieved at the cost of a significant reduction in public investment and
increased short-term foreign currency borrowing, and the economy was not turned around. The
interim government was nonetheless able to broadly protect high priority expenditures (on the
core investment program and social sectors), introduce important legislation to help reform of the
banking system, complete work on a new revenue sharing arrangement (NFC Award) between
the federal government and the provinces, as well as push for the introduction of an agricultural
land tax in the provinces.
2.07        The elected government of Nawaz Sharif has moved swiftly to implement an
ambitious structural reform program. It has also attempted to stabilize the macroeconomic
situation by controlling spending, trying to boost confidence and encouraging private capital
inflows. Immediately after assuming office, the government initiated work on an ambitious
"home grown" reform agenda and requested the Bank and the IMF to assess and support it. The
reform program is comprehensive, and the following measures have already been implemented:
(i) lowering of the maximum import tariff from 65 percent to 45 percent, and reduction in the
number of tariff bands and tariff concessions/exemptions; (ii) adoption of a policy package for
export promotion; (iii) rationalization of the rate structures and broadening of the bases of the



-4 -
General Sales Tax (GST), personal income tax, and corporate income tax; (iv) adoption by the
four provinces of ordinances to initiate taxation of agricultural incomes; (v) adoption of a wide-
ranging comprehensive banking reform program; and (vi) rationalization of public expenditures,
including initiation of a downsizing exercise to identify redundant organizations and staff.
2.08        ESAF Negotiations. In March 1997 the Government, in agreement with the
Fund, abandoned the Stand-by Arrangement concluded with the interim government and reached
agreement on an IMF Staff-Monitored Program (SMP), covering the period from April to
September 1997. Moreover, understandings were reached in March and April 1997 that the
government and the Fund would initiate discussions on a possible ESAF arrangement provided
that Pakistan met the agreed end-June performance criteria under the SMP, as a part of the FY98
budget adopted by the National Assembly, and met the end-September performance criteria
under the SMP. The Government and an IMF mission accordingly reached agreement, ad
referendum, on three-year ESAF/EFF arrangements (for about US$1.6 billion) in late July 1997.
The IMF Board approved the ESAF/EFF arrangements on October 20, 1997.
2.09        Macroeconomic Framework for FY1998-2000. The Government recognizes
that the achievement of the objective of its structural reform program would be jeopardized in the
absence of strengthened efforts to stabilize the economy. It is consequently committed to
substantially tighten its fiscal and monetary policies and, through an appropriate exchange rate
action, enhance export competitiveness. Under the ESAF/EFF arrangements, the following
macroeconomic targets have been agreed for 1997/98: (i) raise real GDP growth from 3.1
percent to 5.5 percent; (ii) reduce year-on-year inflation from 11.8 percent to 10.5 percent; and
(iii) maintain the level of official reserves at the end-June 1997 level of US$1.2 billion (net of
purchases under the ESAF/EFF arrangement). In order to achieve these objectives, the
government will reduce the budget deficit from 6.2 percent of GDP to 5 percent, with a
substantial reduction in budgetary support by the banking system, and reduce the operating
losses of the public corporations from 2.6 percent to 1.8 percent of GDP. As a result, the current
account deficit of the balance of payments is expected to decline from 6.4 percent to 5.1 percent
of GDP. The program also includes measures to contain domestic liquidity growth, reverse the
significant appreciation of the real effective exchange, liberalize the exchange rate system, and
actions to reduce the economy's dependence on short-term foreign exchange liabilities. The
three-year macroeconomic framework targets acceleration of real GDP growth to 6 percent a year
and reduction of inflation to 7 percent, with further reductions in the fiscal and current account
deficits to 4 percent and 4.2 percent of GDP, respectively, by 1999/2000. The official reserves
are expected to increase to US$3.4 billion (13 weeks of imports), including ESAF/EFF
purchases, by the end of the program.
2.10        Tax Reform. The tax reform component of the program focuses on the
rationalization of the rate structure and a reduction in tax rates while broadening the tax base.
The rate structure for the GST has already been rationalized to one uniform rate of 12.5 percent.
The horizontal extension of the GST will involve bringing sugar, edible oil, and most of the
remaining exempt manufactured and imported goods into the tax net. As a step towards vertical
extension of the GST, a transitional turnover tax of 3 percent on traders will be introduced in
January 1998 at the retail level in major cities and towns, although traders will have the option to



-5-
pay the standard GST. The Government has adopted a new rate structure for personal and
corporate income taxes that involves a reduction in rates (to 5, 10, 15, and 20 percent in the case
of the personal income tax, and to 30, 35, and 55 percent in the case of corporate income tax),
together with an expansion of the definition of income and obligatory filing for certain categories
of tax payers. As concerns the agricultural income tax, the Government is committed to a strong
collection effort to ensure that revenue targets for 1997/98 are met, and work to harmonize rates
and coverage of the tax in other provinces to bring them up to the level of Punjab. In the second
year of the ESAF/EFF program, adjustments will be made in the rates and exemptions of the tax,
while a study by the Bank to assess different options for an appropriate system of agricultural
taxation will be undertaken, on the basis of which an action plan for implementing a new
taxation system will be prepared.
2.11        Public Expenditures. Traditionally, the main burden of fiscal adjustment has
fallen on public investment and non-wage operations and maintenance (O&M) spending.
Progress has been made in the past year in economizing on overall budgetary expenditures and
reducing spending on lower-priority activities. Defense and civil administration have been
contained, while cutbacks in development expenditure have been effectively prioritized, with
programs under explicit political sponsorship terminated. The excessive portfolio of projects
under implementation has been substantially reduced, and efforts have been made to strengthen
monitoring of development spending. Subsidies in the federal budget have also been cut back.
A major downsizing exercise has been initiated to identify redundant organizations and surplus
staff. The new NFC Award provides a medium-term framework for the provinces' budgets
during the next five years. The 1997/98 budget maintains tight control over expenditures, with
civil administration targeted to remain roughly constant in nominal terms and defense expected
to decline significantly as a share of GDP. Development expenditures, which are budgeted at 3.1
percent GDP compared to 3.4 percent in 1996/97, have undergone a comprehensive review with
a significant improvement in prioritization and quality of spending.
2.12        While the above measures reflect better prioritization of expenditures and have
broadly protected the Social Action Program (SAP) and high priority development projects from
budgetary cutbacks, little progress has been made in adequately funding non-wage O&M
spending in non-SAP sectors, inefficiencies continue to reduce the effectiveness of expenditures,
and budgeting, monitoring, and expenditure management systems still require significant
improvements. Nevertheless, the Government has initiated a downsizing exercise to identify
redundant organizations and staff, and prepared an overall strategy to reduce surplus staff in a
fiscally viable and socially acceptable manner. The federal government announced in August
1997 a scheme for downsizing federal ministries and attached units. The Government is
committed to initiate a comprehensive civil service reform within the ESAF/EFF program
period.
2.13        Social Impact of Adjustment. By improving Pakistan's medium-term growth
prospects and the pattern of economic growth, the Government's stabilization and structural
reform program is expected, in time, to permit a further reduction in poverty. In the short run,
however, there could be potentially adverse consequences for the poor and certain other groups
(e.g., those affected by public sector downsizing). The Government is committed tb easing them,



-6 -
both to prevent an increase in poverty and to reduce resistance to reforms. Therefore, to
minimize potential social costs of reforms in short-run and strengthen the social safety net, the
Government will be following a multi-pronged strategy. By insulating SAP and high-priority
public investments from expenditure cutbacks, the government expects to maintain the level of
basic social services provided to the poor. As part of the second phase of the SAP program, the
government is strengthening the Participatory Development Program to support NGOs and the
private sector in the management and delivery of basic social services. Moreover, the
government has established the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund to mobilize and assist poor
communities in developing income-generating activities through human resource development
and micro-credit programs. The government has carried out a review of existing public sector
safety nets (i.e., Zakat and Ushr, Bait-ul-Mal), based on which it will ensure more adequate and
better targeting of the most vulnerable groups among the poor. Finally, the government will seek
technical and financial assistance from the donor community to finance severance packages for
compensating and retraining workers affected by the restructuring exercise.
III. THE BANKING SECTOR
A. Overview of the Banking Sector
3.01        The financial system of Pakistan consists of the State Bank of Pakistan, 3
nationalized commercial banks, 2 partially privatized banks, 21 foreign commercial bank
branches, 9 private domestic banks, 2 provincial commercial banks, 9 development finance
institutions, 60 leasing companies, 45 modarabas (mutual funds), 3 stock exchanges, and 60
insurance companies. Although in recent years the share of the non-bank financial sector has
increased, the financial system is still dominated by the commercial banks. Commercial banks
account for over two thirds of total financing, and hold over 90 percent of the public's deposits.
State Bank of Pakistan
3.02        State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) is the country's central bank. Aside from its
traditional central bank functions, it is an important source of financing for the government and
certain state-owned development finance institutions. To a lesser extent, it channeled funds
through its refinancing operations to other financial institutions for special purposes such as
lending for exports, for small scale enterprises and for the purchase of locally manufactured
machinery. It also directed credits by imposing mandatory credit targets on banks for priority
sectors. SBP is the regulatory and supervisory authority for banks, but until recently shared this
role with the Ministry of Finance and the Pakistan Banking Council with respect to the
Nationalized Commercial Banks and the DFIs. It had been charged with the supervision of the
non-bank financial institutions (NBFI), but shared this responsibility with the Corporate Law
Authority, in respect of non-deposit taking NBFIs.
3.03        Recent amendments to the central bank act have enhanced SBP's autonomy. It
had always been the government's lender of last resort and could, therefore, adhere to its
monetary program only by squeezing the private sector. Since it not only provided norrnal



-7 -
financing to other financial institutions through its refinancing operations but also required credit
direction and subsidization through mandatory credit targets on banks, it operated from a conflict
of interest as bank regulator and supervisor. Reforms supported by BSAL have addressed these
issues (para 4.37-4.38). As bank regulator and supervisor, it shared this role with the Ministry of
Finance and the Pakistan Banking Council vis-a-vis the NCBs, as a consequence of the Bank
Nationalization Act of 1974. It did not have sufficient authority and stature to discipline NCBs
and DFIs. It did not have the authority to license banks or approve branch expansion, which
became the prerogative of the government, as a result of the Bank Nationalization Act. The legal
reforms supported by BSAL have addressed these weaknesses (para 4.40-4.42).
Commercial Banks
3.04        Pakistan's commercial banking system is still heavily dominated by the 3 NCBs.
These banks accounted for 67 percent of loans and 65 percent of deposits in 1995. Among them,
Habib Bank Limited (HBL) had the largest branch network of 2000 branches, while National
Bank of Pakistan (NBP) had the largest deposit base of 24 percent. (NBP is the original state-
owned bank and holds most of government deposits.) The 2 partially privatized banks held 17
percent of loans and deposits. Foreign banks as a group accounted for 18 percent of loans and 16
percent of deposits while private domestic banks, 7 percent of loans and deposits. Thus, despite
privatization and the entry of private domestic banks, the dominance by the state-owned sector
continued, due in part to credit ceilings imposed on banks that prevented a faster restructuring of
the market.
3.05        In 1990, two NCBs were partially privatized. Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB)
was sold to a geographically and sectorally diverse group of investors, and Allied Bank Limited
(ABL) to its employees and management. MCB and ABL were the smaller of the five NCBs.
They had about one seventh of the assets and deposits of the system, although over a quarter of
branches. During 1996, the Government at'empted to privatize another NCB (UBL) but was
unsuccessful, in part because of UBL's large non-performing loan portfolio and huge
overstaffing with militant and corrupt labor unions.
3.06        Between 1993 and 1995, the banking sector as a whole experienced declining
profitability, increasing inefficiency and a weakening capital base, even when reckoned under
Pakistani accounting standards. (Financial disclosure weaknesses of Pakistani banks are
discussed in Chapter IV, Section C.) However, there was a marked difference in performance
among the NCBs, the partially privatized banks, the foreign banks and private domestic banks
(Table 1).



-8 -
Table 1: KEY RATIOS BY BANKING GROUP
(%)
Partially                          Private
Privatized        Foreign         Domestic
All Banks         NCBs              Banks             Banks           Banks
1993  1994  1995 1993  1994  1995  1993 1994 1995 1993 1994 1995  1993  1994  1995
ROA                    0.60   0.38  0.22  0.40  0.01  0.04  0.15  0.18  0.22  1.57  1.31 0.50  1.25  1.12  0.91
ROE                   19.35  12.76  7.06 15.08  2.88  1.71  8.98 10.68 11.27 31.54 28.43 8.89  17.94  16.91  15.10
Efficiencyl'          69.04  74.09  78.69 82.00 89.83 90.57 93.14 89.33 87.39 30.14 35.13 48.73  35.62 35.62 53.93
DepositMarketShare   100.00 100.00 100.00 65.16 61.27 59.57 15.96 16.37 17.45 15.51 16.01 15.97  3.37  3.37  7.00
Loan Market Share     100.00 100.00 100.00 67.18  60.97 57.66 14.40 15.99 17.10 14.99 16.34 17.93  3.42  3.42  7.30
Capitalas%ofDeposits    5.10   5.01  5.17  4.27  3.92  3.69  2.52 2.60  3.04  8.88  8.43 10.21  16.02  16.02  11.62
Required Infusion to Reach
BIS (US$ billion)                   5.60              4.80            0.70               0               0.10
Non-interest expense/net interest income and fees
3.07            Despite only a small loss in market share, the NCBs' performance, as a group,
was the worst. Profitability dropped, due to an increasing level of non-performing loans and
declining productivity. If loan losses were adequately provided for, the NCBs would have shown
negative returns and net worth, with a negative capital base estimated to be about 6 percent of
total assets. Considering the large risks that remain in these institutions, the officially-sanctioned
capital base of 3 percent of deposit liabilities is grossly inadequate. The cost of recapitalizing
these banks according to BIS standards could be as high as US$5 billion.
3.08            Although still hampered by the low yield on the old stock of loans and an
inherited high cost base, the partially privatized banks have increased their profitability through
improved loan recovery and increased efficiency. Still, with a ROA of 0. 2 percent and an
efficiency ratio of 87 percent, the privatized banks were only marginally profitable in 1995.
They have low deposits per branch and extremely high personnel costs due to the recruitment of
more qualified staff without a commensurate retrenchment of unqualified personnel. In light of
growing position risks, interest rate risks, and a poor loan stock, the required capital of 3 percent
of deposits is grossly inadequate. A rapid rise in interest rates or a single bad underwriting
decision could easily wipe out any remaining capital. To improve the viability of these banks,
costs must be substantially reduced, risks contained and managed, the corporate culture further
improved, and new capital infused.
3.09            While profitability is declining, foreign bank operations in Pakistan are still very
profitable. The 21 foreign banks make up only 18 percent of the sector but consistently earn
about two-thirds of the sector's profits. Earnings have primarily come from trade finance and
foreign currency deposit (FCD) collection surrendered to the SBP with good margins. In fact,
the dramatic decline in profitability in 1995 was mainly due to reduced arbitrage gains as the
SBP began to require banks to pay a forward cover fee for foreign currency deposits, albeit still
subsidized, where there was none before. However, the SBP counter party risk on FCDs is large
and growing. A further deterioration in the external accounts could trigger a withdrawal of
institutional FCDs.



-9 -
3.10        Private domestic banks, with a few exceptions, are doing well. Profitability is
comparatively high, as reflected in an ROA of 0.9 and an ROE of 15 percent, but, as with the rest
of the sector, also declining. If weak performers, such as Indus and Bolan are excluded, the
performance of this group of banks would be even better. However, due to rapid growth as
reflected by a doubling in market share, costs have increased from an efficiency ratio of 36
percent to 54 percent. Moreover, these banks are still small and are highly vulnerable to a
banking crisis, as they are dependent on FCDs.
Development Finance Institutions
3.11        There are seven industrial and two other development finance institutions, each
with a special mandate to address the long-term financing needs of specific clients of the private
and public sectors. The Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP) was established to
provide term finance to small industries while the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation (PICIC) was to provide term finance to medium and large industries. During the
1960s, while PICIC remained in the private sector and IDBP enjoyed relative managerial
autonomy, they were well managed and became major sources of foreign exchange term
financing for private industrial investment. In the 1970s, nationalization led to serious problems
and in the 1980s both institutions were faced with serious portfolio deficiencies, coupled with
institutional problems including loss of experienced staff.
3.12        NDFC and BEL were established in 1973 and 1980 respectively: NDFC was to
be a bank for public sector enterprises while BEL was originally set up to promote Islamic
instruments, especially providing equity finance to private industry, underwriting equity issues,
and arranging consortia finance participation from the NCBs.
3.13        Except for BEL, which was recently privatized, all industrial DFIs have boards
that are controlled by the public sector (Table 2). These boards have little autonomy in
determining basic lending and recovery policies, staffing levels, and remuneration. The DFIs
have been impaired by this lack of operational autonomy. Frequent management changes, low
pay, political interference in lending and loan
recovery decisions and hiring of staff have
contributed to low staff morale, inadequate loan  Table 2: Ownership of the Industrial DFIs
recoveries, and weak loan portfolios. Resources              (%)
for the DFIs have come mainly from international
lines of credit and SBP refinancing facilities.  I        Public    Priv..&EFr.
Domestically mobilized deposits are only about  IDBP       100           0
one third of assets. Although DFIs have been  NDFC         100           0
increasing efforts at domestic resource      BEL            36          64
mobilization in recent years, they have had little  PICIC   51          49
success except for short-term deposits. With the  Pak-Libya  50         50
drying-up of international credit line sources and  Pak-Saudi  50       50
weak collection performance, the DFIs, as a  Pak-Kuwait    50           50
group, have not only become insolvent but are
also practically illiquid.



-10-
3.14         In 1982, three joint venture
companies, Pak-Kuwait Investment Company     Table : FY90 and FY96 Loan Disbursements
Ltd., Pak-Libya Holding Company, and Pak-                   (Rs million)
Saudi Industrial and Agricultural Investment
Company were established to provide loans and    InSt ituon   FY 1990    FY 1996
venture capital to industry. As PICIC, IDBP,      NDFC         2,272.3    2,243.0
and BEL declined, and NDFC stagnated, their       PICIC        1,230.8     583.0
market shares were taken over by the joint        BEL          1,461.6      489.0
venture DFIs (Table 3).                           IDBP         1,114.5     275.0
Pak-Libya      77.6      401.0
3.15         Investrent Banks. Since the late     Pak-Kuwait    68.0      3,267.0
1980's, nine private investment banks have been   Pak-Saudi     182.3      285.0
established in Pakistan. But so far they have
remaind smal, acountig forless han ~Source: SBP 1990/91 and 1995/96 Annual Report
remained small, accounting for less than I
percent of financial assets. However, since,
unlike the DFIs, the investment banks were not created under artificial conditions (with ready-
made funds from international financial institutions), they are better grounded in the domestic
capital markets. Currently, the bulk of their business is in quasi deposit taking and short-term
finance for Pakistani "blue chip" companies. But they are expanding their role in project and
corporate finance, advisory services and underwriting. The larger investment banks are also in
stock brokerage and portfolio management. Unlike the DFIs, these investment banks seem to
play an important role in Pakistan's capital markets and can become important players in the
financial sector in the future.
3.16         In contrast to the oligopoly of the five NCBs in the 1980s, Pakistan has achieved a
more competitive market structure, with the establishment of new private commercial banks, the
expanding market share of the foreign banks and partial privatization of two NCBs. However,
further reduction of market concentration is needed to promote competition and stronger market
discipline.
B. Major Problems of the Banking Sector
3.17         While Pakistan had taken great strides in de-regulating the banking sector in the
early 1990s, rapidly deteriorating governance and credit discipline, especially in the state-owned
banking sector, have aggravated structural problems, as evidenced by a worsening level of non-
performing loans and increasing disintermediation. Worsening macroeconomic imbalances have
led to a growing dependence on FCDs and increasing market intervention to contain the cost of
financing a large fiscal deficit. Consequently, the insolvency of the banking sector has increased,
two large NCBs and the older DFIs are experiencing liquidity problems, foreign exchange
reserves are being boosted by potentially volatile and expensive FCDs, and access to credit by
the private sector has been increasingly curtailed.



Main Manifestations of Problems
3.18        Deterioration of the Loan Portfolio. This is the most basic issue for Pakistan's
banking sector today. Resource allocation, a key function of the financial sector, has been
vitiated by political interference in both lending and loan recovery decisions. As a result, the
stock of non-performing loans has grown from Rs 25 billion in 1989 to Rs 128 billion as of June
1997, or 4 percent of GDP. On the other hand, total deposits are growing only at a little over
inflation, with growth accounted for mainly by FCDs. Thus, although the banking sector is still
liquid, in terms of stock, owing to the conservative reserve policies of the past (i.e., credit/deposit
ratio not exceeding 65 percent), there is an emerging liquidity problem, in terms of flow, as new
deposits may become insufficient to cover the outflow from bad loans and operational losses.
3.19        Slow-down in Domestic Deposit Growth. Disintermediation of domestic deposits
is caused by several factors: (a) an increasing dollarization of the economy as confidence in the
Rupee weakens; (b) growing direct borrowing by the government through attractive tax-
advantaged national saving schemes to help finance the deficit; (c) low return on bank deposits
vis-A-vis inflation and other competing financial and real assets due to heavy taxation on
fimancial intermediation (through high reserve requirements) and the inefficiency of banks,
especially the NCBs; and (d) increasing lack of confidence of savers in the NCBs (the traditional
domestic deposit mobilizers) in face of publicity about their large non-performing loans and poor
service in comparison with the new private banks.
3.20        Foreign Currency Deposits. FCDs had grown rapidly to US$11 billion by July
1997, already accounting for half of bank deposits in Pakistan. There are two main.causes for the
rapid growth in FCDs: a movement by local depositors from Rs to FX deposits in face of a
weakening Rs, and active encouragement by SBP for foreign bank branches to bring in FCDs.
SBP and the government have encouraged foreign bank branches to bring in FCDs by providing
a heavily subsidized foreign exchange cover that give banks attractive margins. Banks and
NBFIs have also used a "liberal" interpretation of the scheme to increase their short-term foreign
borrowings, the proceeds of which are "deposited" with SBP with the corresponding Rupees
loaned out to local clients. The foreign exchange cover scheme has also given banks and
financial institutions attractive fee business when they bring in FCDs which are pre-arranged by
"depositors" as loans to third parties in Pakistan. In all these transactions, banks, depositors and
borrowers arbitrage between foreign and domestic interest rates, with SBP providing the hedge at
a subsidized rate, thus creating large quasi fiscal deficits. In the past two years, annual losses of
SBP due to this scheme were 0.8 percent of GDP.
3.21        Market Segmentation. Despite liberalization, the financial markets continue to be
segmented, principally into private sector and public sector segments owing to continuing
controls on interest rates paid on government debt. Yields on T-bills were artificially depressed
by predetermining cut-off rates at the primary auctions, and requiring banks to hold large reserve
requirements in T-bills and other government paper. (For these reasons too, there was hardly any
secondary market for government paper). On the other hand, because of its huge appetite for
funds, the government borrows at much higher rates from the general public through national
savings schemes that offer higher yields and are tax advantaged. The spread between the yield



-12-
on government securities (the sovereign risk) and private sector debt (commercial risk) is
abnormally large.
3.22        The other source of market segmentation is the special credit programs. Although
declining these programs are still sizeable. In 1995-96, the total cost of interest subsidies
amounted to about Rs 7 billion or 0.3 percent of GDP. The Government implements two types
of special credit programs: (a) mandatory credit programs; and (b) concessional credit programs.
Under mandatory credit programs, the SBP prescribes minimum annual targets for Pakistani
commercial banks to lend to certain priority sectors, like agriculture, small agricultural
production loans, and small loans for industry and business. Concessional credit programs
require banks and NBFIs to charge below-market interest rates on their loans for exports, local
sale and export of locally manufactured machinery, tourism projects in specified geographical
areas, and production loans to small farmers. Loans to the Government for financing commodity
operations are also at concessional rates of interest.
3.23        Both mandatory credit targets and concessional credit schemes have been justified
on grounds of market failure which has constrained access to credit by certain sectors or classes
of borrowers, and for social reasons - to provide relief to the disadvantaged. But contrary to
expectations, interest repression has constrained the supply of credit and political clout has
influenced the allocation of limited funds. Thus, these schemes have not only been costly for the
budget, but have also become unsustainable and, to a large extent, ineffective in achieving the
stated objectives. Besides, these schemes have had poor repayment records. The default risks
have been so high that banks have preferred to pay the penalty of not meeting targets, than lose
also the principal amounts of such loans.
Root Causes of the Problems - Failure of Governance and Lack of Financial Discipline
3.24        The sources of governance and discipline for Pakistan's financial sector, i.e.,
bank owners, bank regulators, market competition, and the courts, either have perverted
incentives or are too weak to provide proper governance or impose credit discipline. The
government which owns most of the banking sector through its ownership of the NCBs and
larger DFIs has allowed political interference to pervert credit allocation and loan recovery
decisions of the NCBs and DFIs. NCBs and DFIs have been the major source of bad loans,
accounting for 90 percent of the bad loans of the entire system. Similarly, loan recovery by the
NCB and DFI officers and staff has been stymied by fear of politically motivated retribution.
3.25        Because of the frustration over the devastation of the banking sector by large
defaulters and the quasi fiscal deficits that must now be recognized and probably financed by
taxpayers, there is consensus in Pakistan that the key solution lies in the privatization of state-
owned banks. However, bureaucratic inertia and political agenda have slowed down the
privatization program since the initial spurt in the early 1990s. An attempt was made to privatize
United Bank Limited (UBL) during the current year. But opaque procedures due to inadequate
"due diligence" and conflicting objectives between maximizing price and achieving improved
governance doomed the sale from the start.



- 13 -
3.26        The failed privatization of UBL has underscored the lesson that, because of the
moral hazard inherent in the privatization of large banks, the privatization of the remaining
NCBs must be undertaken with care. The main goal must be to sell these banks through a very
transparent selection to private investors who possess the integrity, financial and managerial
capacity, and the needed expertise to run these banks. Price maximization and fiscal revenue
generation must be secondary factors and should be considered only after qualified bidders have
been pre-selected on the basis of the above-mentioned criteria.
3.27        Banking regulation and supervision over the NCBs and DFIs used to be shared by
three agencies, the Ministry of Finance, the Pakistan Banking Council and the State Bank of
Pakistan, and have been weak and rife with conflicts of interest and perverse incentives. SBP did
not have the autonomy to exercise its supervisory powers over most of the banking sector, i.e.,
the NCBs and DFIs. Because of a conflict between the Banking Companies Ordinance and the
Bank Nationalization Act (which set up the NCBs) SBP could not exercise its powers to
discipline the NCBs through various enforcement measures, especially the removal of
management or withdrawal of banking license. Only the government, through the Ministry of
Finance and the Pakistan Banking Council, had the authority to appoint or remove NCB and DFI
management. The government, not the central bank, was the authority that granted banking
licenses and permission to open branches.
3.28        SBP's supervisory capacity is itself weak. Although it is trying to improve the
quality of bank oversight, considering the years of neglect during the period of nationalized
banking, it will take time before SBP can acquire the expertise to manage banking risks and
anticipate bank failures. Moreover, there are major organizational and systemic problems that
work against SBP's efforts to modernize, including a powerful labor union that militates against
personnel changes.
3.29        Although growing, competition in financial markets is still limited. The NCBs
continue to dominate the market, rendering market discipline also weak. Among the NCBs,
Habib Bank (HBL) and the National Bank of Pakistan (NBP) account for half of the market.
Credit ceilings, although removed in principle, still applied in practice curtailing more dramatic
shifts in market shares among the NCBs, the privatized banks, the private domestic banks and
foreign banks. Moreover the playing field is not level. NCBs and privatized banks are allowed
to operate dejure with less capital (although the situation is worse, defacto, since they have
negative capital), enjoy lower tax rates, and have a preferred position to receive public sector
deposits. Reduction in market concentration must be an important objective to aim for in the
privatization of the NCBs. The sale of the NCBs, especially of HBL, in parts, rather than as
wholes, must be a serious consideration.
3.30        Finally, the legal risks for banks in Pakistan are extremely high. When a loan
becomes non-performing for any reason, the recourse to the legal and judicial system is very
costly due to the time it takes not only to get decisions made but also to get decisions executed.
Lenders cannot foreclose on collateral without lengthy court procedures. The legal and judicial
system in Pakistan has become a haven for defaulters rather than a deterrent to defaulting. Under
Islamic banking, interest has to stop accruing 210 days after a case is filed in court, on the



-14-
assumption that court decrees could be made and executed in 90 days and because of the Islamic
principle that interest cannot accrue on interest. Since the experience is that it takes years to get
court cases resolved, a defaulter can enjoy an interest free loan beyond the initial 210 days
allowed for accruing interest under Islamic banking.
IV. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM
A. Overall Approach and Short-Term Measures
4.01        The goal is to achieve a sound banking sector that can provide the financial
services needed by the economy efficiently. In view of the problems described above, the thrust
of the reform program is to insulate the banking system from political interference, and to
improve the environment for, and ability of, bank owners, bank regulators, the markets and
the courts to provide the required governance and impose financial discipline. Thus, the
Government's reform program encompasses the privatization of the state-owned sector of the
banking system, the enhancement of the authority and ability of the central bank to supervise
banks and effectively enforce regulations, the promotion of market integration and competition,
and the improvement of the legal and judicial processes for enforcing financial contracts.
4.02        Arresting the Flow of Bad Loans. Considering the deep-seated nature of the
problems in Pakistan's banking sector, it will require persistent and constant efforts over the
medium term to resolve them. However, in the immediate term, the Government and the central
bank have taken measures to prevent the situation from deteriorating. Based on an analysis of
the 250 largest defaulters, the main source of default has been project lending by the NCBs. In
December 1996, the Government, as owner, instructed the NCBs to refrain from making new
project loans until June 1997. This was an emergency measure justified on grounds of stopping
the hemorrhage. It also helped to restructure somewhat the market shares of the NCBs, the
partially privatized banks, private domestic banks and foreign banks, which have remained static
due to the credit ceilings which were in effect until recently. The central bank has stopped using
informal credit ceilings to control liquidity, and is using more indirect means of monetary
control.
4.03        In January 1997, SBP required the new management of the NCBs and DFIs to
submit for its clearance well-defined lending policies, including loan approval procedures and
powers of various levels of management. SBP gave directives to tighten lending practices and
increase transparency in lending. With its new powers over the NCBs and DFIs, SBP has been
closely monitoring compliance with the new lending policies.
4.04        Preventing Further Deterioration of the NCBs and DFIs. The management and
boards of the NCBs and DFIs have been replaced. More importantly, the process of their
appointment and removal has been changed through an amendment in the law. The presidents
and board chairmen have been appointed from a panel of qualified professionals, maintained and
updated by SBP. They will serve for a fixed term of three years and will have security of tenure.



- 15 -
Similarly, the board directors have been appointed by the government in consultation with SBP.
Moreover, all selections, promotions and transfers of NCB and DFI staff, and decisions on
remuneration and benefits are now being made by the concerned bank presidents in accordance
with personnel policies approved by their boards, under the guidelines of SBP. Amendments to
the law prohibit government departments from issuing directives to NCBs and DFIs that are
inconsistent with the directives of SBP. The Pakistan Banking Council has been abolished,
making SBP the sole regulatory and supervisory agency for the banking sector.
4.05        As caretaker management until these institutions are privatized , the new
management of the NCBs and DFIs are implementing action programs, approved by SBP, aimed
at conserving assets, reducing cost, downsizing staff and branches, increasing loan recovery, and
limiting lending to borrowers that have no default with any other bank.
4.06        Reducing the Stock of Non-Performing Loans. Efforts to reduce the stock of bad
loans through vigorous recovery have also started. GOP and SBP have launched a loan recovery
program consisting of two phases. The first phase, from June 5 to September 5, 1997, was an
"amnesty" program by which defaulters and "sick units" were given incentives to settle their
overdues. Cash settlement is typically 10 percent downpayment, with the payment of the 90
percent balance due by December 5, 1997. Under this program some 34,000 defaulters and 770
sick units with loans amounting to Rs 28.5 billion and Rs 34.4 billion, respectively, were
covered. Cash recovery to date under this program has been Rs 1.3 billion, with Rs 14.8 billion
expected to be paid by the December 5 deadline.
4.07        The second phase was the mandatory filing with the banking courts of default
cases of those borrowers who did not take advantage of the amnesty program by September 30,
1997. These defaulters will be pursued vigorously under the new loan recovery law. This law
has strengthened the hand of the banks and DFIs to expedite loan recovery. Outside of the
amnesty program, the new management of the NCBs and DFIs have also pursued loan recovery
more aggressively. Asset recovery departments under new management have been established.
So far Rs 5.9 billion have been recovered, bringing total recovery to Rs 7. 2 billion. From the
three programs, the NCBs and DFIs expect to recover about Rs 26 billion by December 1997.
Whatever of the stock of bad loans is left would be carved out of these institutions at the point of
privatization to facilitate privatization, increase transparency and reduce moral hazard (para
4.10).
B. Reforming Governance Through Privatization
4.08        The overriding goal of privatization is to achieve good governance by selling the
NCBs and DFIs to private investors who possess the integrity, capital, banking expertise,
management and technology to run these institutions prudently and efficiently. The privatization
plan consists of: (a) the complete divestiture of the Government's remaining ownership interests
in MCB, ABL, PICIC and BEL, and the sale of Habib Credit and Exchange Bank; (b) the full
privatization of HBL, UBL, NBP, NDFC and IDBP; and (c) the orderly liquidation of the bad



- 16-
assets that will be removed by the Government from HBL, UBL, NBP, NDFC and IDBP at the
point of sale.
Table 4: HIGHLIGHTS OF NCBs AND DFIs
December 31, 1995
HIGHLIGHTS            TOTAL,    HBL         UBL       NBP      NDFC       IDIBP
Number of Employees      77,492    31,761    22,102    21,549     1,200       880
Number of Branches        5,280     1,978     1,706     1,537       40         19
Total Assets (Rs bn)      893.0     336.6     182.2     320.2      33.0      21.0
Classified Loans (Rs bn)  121.4      52.0       .0       17.4       8.0      12.0
Provisions (Rs bn)        42.0       18.7      4.5       10.9       2.9       5.0
Paid up Capital (Rs bn)    6.1       2.5        1.5       1.5       0.4       0.2
Reserve Funds (Rs bn)      15.8      4.8       2.1        6.4       2.1       0.4
4.09        Reducing Political and Social Costs. Until recently, all the five large institutions
to be sold were heavily overstaffed while the three NCBs had by far too many branches to ever
achieve reasonable profitability. Overstaffing and overbranching were caused by political
interference and could be resolved only with political backing. Moreover, the employees were
organized by militant and corrupt labor unions that have resisted downsizing. It would have been
difficult to attract bonafide investors to buy these institutions had these social and political costs
not been removed first so that their values could be more transparently estimated on business
grounds. Thus, prior to privatization, the staffs and branches of these institutions are being
rationalized in accordance with the plans agreed with SBP. Because of anticipated resistance
from the labor unions, downsizing was done principally through voluntary separation with the
help of an attractive severance payment program. Through this program 20,000 employees, or
25 percent of total staff, were separated from the NCBs and DFIs. The rupee counterpart of the
proposed Loan will help to finance the cost of the severance payment program which amounted
to the equivalent of about US$350 million on an after-tax basis.
4.10        Carving-out Bad Assets. To attract bonafide investors and enhance the
transparency of the privatization process, the bad assets that remain after vigorous recovery
efforts in HBL, UBL, NBP, NDFC and IDBP will be removed by the Govermnent. However, to
ensure that financial restructuring is not done too prematurely before there is a structural change
in governance, the removal of bad assets will be undertaken only at the point of privatization.
The book value of the bad assets would first be offset against related reserves and the remaining
capital accounts of the institutions, and the resulting deficiencies made up with good assets (such
as fully marketable, market rate obligations of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, cash or put
options) to the extent that the networth of these institutions would be brought back to zero.
4.11        Transparency of the Process. The Privatization Commission (PC), the agency
responsible for privatization, is contracting, with the help of Bank financing under an ongoing
operation, fully qualified investment advisors to assist in the structuring of the sales transactions
and developing related marketing plans. The PC, in close collaboration with SBP, is preparing



- 17-
complete information packages on each institution that would provide prospective bidders with
sufficient information to undertake informed analyses of the transactions and do their own
thorough due diligence. All pre-qualified bidders will be allowed to perform on-site due
diligence to make the transactions as transparent as possible and increase bidder confidence in
the process. The most crucial information required by the prospective bidders would relate to the
bad assets that are to be removed by the Government from the institutions, and the extent of staff
reductions and branch rationalization undertaken prior to sale.
4.12         Selection of Bidders. The objective is to attract as many qualified bidders as
possible while quickly screening out those that lack the required financial strength, background,
or character. Bidders will be required to submit complete financial information on themselves
and the companies they represent, including personal resumes with verifiable history of past and
current employment and business associations and full disclosure regarding past personal or
related company bankruptcies or creditor compromises. Written details regarding the financing
arrangement for the purchase price, the required recapitalization of the institutions, and the
expected sources for repayment of resultant debt will be required. High financing ratios for bank
acquisitions often increase the level of moral hazard and, on occasion, serve as precursors of self
serving activity on the part of insiders. Care will be exercised before accepting a bid where more
than 60 percent of the funding is being financed and the bidder cannot demonstrate a clear
independent ability to service the debt. In addition, bidders will be required to submit a detailed
restructuring plan for the institution, which will be subject to the approval of SBP.
4.13         Bid Meetings and Acceptance of Bids. Meetings will be held with all pre-
screened bidders prior to any on-site due diligence, and before the information packages are
distributed. General guidelines and conditions regarding the transaction, including required
minimum capital levels, will be clearly described. The time and date that the bids are due and
the method and location for their submission will be clearly disclosed. Bidders will also be
advised that the information package and any other data made available regarding the institution
are confidential and that each bidder is expected to discuss the subject matter only on a "need to
know" basis. Bidders will likewise be discouraged from discussing the transaction among
themselves since such exchanges could lead to lower bid prices and side deals among bidders.
Conversely, the government itself will treat all bidders alike and information to one bidder, either
at the bid meeting or otherwise, will be provided to all participants.
4.14         Capital Requirements for the Privatized NCBs and DFIs. The goal is to increase
the risk-based capital levels of each of the privatized institutions to at least 8 percent. However,
requiring private investors to achieve this capital level immediately might preclude many
otherwise qualified bidders, particularly domestic investors. Thus, the sale of HBL, UBL, NBP,
NDFC and IDBP will be conditioned on the acquirers reaching an understanding with SBP on a
restructuring plan so as to achieve an 8 percent capital adequacy ratio within an agreed timeframe
(para 4.17).



- 18 -
Table 5: PRIVATIZATION PLAN SUMMARY
Financial Institutions    Proposed Privatization Process and Timetable
Habib Bank Limited    -    BL could possibly be broken up. Staff have been reduced and
branches would be appropriately rationalized before privatization. Bad
assets would be removed and substituted good assets (e.g., government
securities) at the point of privatization. Sale of the Government
ownership in HBL would be completed by June 1999.
United Bank Limited       Staff have been reduced and branches would be appropriately
rationalized before privatization. Bad assets would be removed and
substituted with good assets (e.g., government securities) at the point of
privatization. Sale of the Government ownership in UBL would be
_____________________    completed by June  1998.
National Bank of Pakistan   Staff have been reduced and branches would be appropriately
rationalized before privatization. Bad assets would be removed and
substituted with good assets (e.g., government securities) at the point of
privatization. Sale of the Government ownership in NBP would be
completed by December 1999..
National Development      Staff would be appropriately reduced before privatization. Bad assets
Finance Corporation       would be removed and substituted with good assets (e.g., government
securities) at the point of privatization. Sale of the Government
ownership in NDFC would be completed by June 1998.
Allied Bank Limited       The Government would divest all its shares and those of government
Muslim Commercial Bank   controlled corporations, possibly through a firm commitment
Bankers Equity Limited    underwriting by underwriters selected through a transparent process, by
PICIC                     March 1998.
Habib Credit and Exchange  The Government would spin-off this subsidiary from HBL and sell it to
Bank                      strategic private investors by September 1997.
Industrial Development    Staff would be appropriately reduced before privatization. Bad assets
Bank of Pakistan          would be removed and substituted with good assets (e.g., government
securities) at the point of privatization. Sale as a going-concern or as
assets would be completed by December 1998.
C. Strengthening Prudential Regulations and Banking Supervision
4.15         The goal is to develop a regulatory and supervisory system that will accurately
assess the condition of banks and deposit-taking NBFIs and, where problems exist, take action to
rectify them. The system would prescribe capital standards, loan classification and provisioning
norms, exposure limits, accounting and auditing standards, and reporting requirements,
consistent with international standards, and assure that such policies are pursued by banks and
NBFIs. Supervision would be carried out with qualified staff who would gain the respect of the
financial community, and it would be implemented through an appropriate mixture of on-site
examinations and off-site analytical activities.



-19-
4.16        Capital Requirements. Currently capital requirements are based on total callable
liabilities. They are 7.5 percent for foreign banks, 8 percent for domestic private banks, and 3
percent for the nationalized commercial banks and partially privatized banks. The Pakistani
liability-based system does not raise the capital requirement for off-balance sheet exposure,
lower it for holdings of cash and Government securities or take account of borrowings. To
strengthen the system's capital base and achieve international consistency, Pakistan will move to
the Basle system of defining minimum capital requirements. These requirements will apply to
consolidated bank balance sheets for all Pakistani banks.
4.17        SBP has undertaken a study to determine the impact of revised capital regulations,
consistent with BIS standards, on all banks in Pakistan. Foreign banks and domestic private
banks apparently will have no difficulty in complying with the revised regulations, but partially
privatized banks and the NCBs will. Considering that the NCBs will be privatized, compliance
with revised capital standards would be made a condition for privatization, and achievement of
capital adequacy would be agreed with the successful buyers (para 4.14). Similarly, a timetable
for compliance by the partially privatized banks will be issued by SBP. In the meantime, to
effect this reform, appropriate amendments to the banking law have been promulgated by the
Government as an ordinance.
4.18        Provisions for Loan Losses. At the present time loan classifications and
provisioning requirements are based principally upon the length of time interest and/or principal
payments are in arrears on a particular loan. In calculating required provisioning, only liquid
collateral is netted out. Some provisioning requirements may appear substantial in view of the
value of non-liquid collateral. However, recovery experience from non-liquid collateral on non-
performing loans has been extremely bad. Even where recovery on the loan principal is
eventually achieved, the process takes so long that the present value of recovery (calculated from
the onset of provisioning) is likely to be modest.
4.19        Until satisfactory court reform occurs and loan collection experience shows
considerable improvement, the best practice would be to continue with the present system of
time-based provisioning, supplemented by increased classification and provisioning by SBP
examiners in those situations where time-based rules understate likely present value loss.
Required provisions as determined by SBP will be made, regardless of their impact on a bank's
net income or net worth. Information on loan classification and provisioning will be shown
explicitly in published statements of banks, starting with financial year 1997. To make them
comparable with 1997 statements, 1996 statements are also being revised.
4.20        Interest Income Accrual on Delinquent Loans. Until recently, interest income
continued to be accrued on long-term loans delinquent for 180 days. This served to overstate
income and understate the attention that troubled credits should receive. Interest on loans
delinquent beyond 90 days will cease to be recognized as income, and income accrued in the
previous 90 days will be reversed. This policy has been announced by SBP and is currently
effective.



- 20 -
4.21        Loan Concentrations. Single borrower limits for commercial banks are 20 percent
of capital for fund-based exposure and 30 percent of unimpaired capital and reserves for total
exposure. As long as capital is appropriately measured, these limits are reasonable and
consistent with international standards. However, a single borrower, if it is a listed company,
was allowed to borrow up to 20 percent of the assets of a non-bank financial institution. This
was excessive and could have created a situation where default by a single borrower could
potentially lead to the insolvency in an NBFI. Accordingly, SBP has revised relevant regulations
to make the single borrower limits of deposit-taking NBFIs consistent with those of commercial
banks.
4.22        Lge Credits. Large business groups account for a major share of bank
borrowing in Pakistan, and the performance and creditworthiness of these groups are extremely
important for bank performance. SBP will establish a team within supervision that would
analyze the financial performance of major Pakistani groups and their affiliates. The team would
operate on a continuous basis and its findings would be available to those engaged in on-site
examination so that consistent loan classifications can be made where borrowers deal with more
than one banks. The team would perform an in-depth review of a business group's performance,
and would be able to bring more judgment to the classification process.
4.23        Reporting. Disclosure, and Off-Site Supervision. The reports submitted by banks
to SBP include substantial details in some areas, but omit important information that is necessary
to assess their condition. Banks are not required to submit an income report according to any
format prescribed by SBP. Within the next several months, the banking supervision system of
SBP will be revamped. Information from the early warning system, off-site surveillance and on-
site inspection will be integrated and focused on risk analysis. In addition to an income report,
banks would report balance sheet data in a more simple, transparent format that would include
current figures on non-performing loans and estimated required provisions The new reports
would then provide the basis for analysis of the condition and performance of individual banks in
Pakistan. Such analysis would play an important role in developing increased staff
understanding of the factors affecting bank performance and risk.
4.24        Full reliance on reports submitted by banks presupposes that information supplied
is accurate. Over time on-site examinations will help assure the accuracy of reports submitted by
banks. The interaction of off-site and on-site supervision can be especially important in helping
SBP allocate staff resources used in on-site examinations and special efforts devoted to handling
problem banks. Once the quality of reporting is satisfactory, the information from individual
bank reports will be made available to the public in an effort to make the overall financial system
transparent and subject to greater market discipline.
4.25        At the present time annual balance sheets and income statements from audited
reports are made available to the public once a year, three or four months after the end of the
year. Aside from the time lag, these reports contain inaccuracies. Income and net worth do not
reflect required provisioning for many banks. The public is entitled to accurate information,
especially where their deposits may be at risk and where they are current or potential
shareholders of the banks. For these reasons, SBP has required banks to report provisioning



- 21 -
requirements and income and net worth that reflect such requirements. SBP has announced
revised reporting requirements for banks that are based on accounting standards consistent with
international norms. Revised reporting will begin later in 1997 along with initial efforts at off-
site monitoring. Data from these reports will be made publicly available in 1998. SBP will
require banks to report provisioning requirements and appropriately adjusted net income and net
worth in 1998, based on year-end 1997 reports. 1996 reports are also being revised to make
them comparable with the new formats for 1997.
4.26        Role of Bank Examinations. In the past on-site examinations have focused to a
considerable extent on determining whether banks were complying with certain legal
requirements. Violations generally resulted in the imposition of modest fines. Examinations
paid little attention to such factors as determining the overall condition of the bank, its risk
profile and the quality of its management. Doing so effectively presupposes a well-defined
mission and a quality, well-trained staff. Well-focused on-site examinations can serve to allocate
limited staff resources to the most important supervisory tasks. This may require departing from
current rules regarding loan and branch coverage, and knowing when to cut short examinations
so that resources can be shifted from unnecessary review of good banks and to more detailed
review of the practices of bad banks.
4.27        SBP will benefit from the assistance of an international consulting team, financed
by the Bank, which is assisting in modernizing and reorienting on-site bank examinations in
Pakistan. This assistance includes participating in on-site examination, developing a satisfactory
examination manual that focuses on bank risk and performance and an appropriate examination
report and initiating training efforts to enable examination staff to act effectively in the future.
SBP is committed to move forward as rapidly as possible in improving the examination process,
although successful implementation in this area may take several years.
4.28        Quality Examination Staff. Many of the existing examination and supervisory
staff in SBP apparently have had limited training in basic analytical areas such as economics,
finance and accounting. For many years their role was heavily clerical. It is probably unrealistic
to expect the majority of such staff to be able to function effectively in SBP's new supervisory
system. SBP has started a crash recruitment and training program to improve its short-term and
long-term staffing situation. 20 qualified and experienced middle level staff were recently
recruited for the bank supervision departments to achieve some level of expertise immediately.
In addition, SBP recruited about 130 new graduates (54 with MBA/MA degrees), put them
through a rigorous six-month theoretical and practical training program, and assigned them to the
bank supervision departments.
4.29        In the long run, it will be necessary to recruit younger but qualified staff on a
continuous basis to keep up with SBP's growing needs and staff attrition. It may be necessary
for SBP to offer compensation that exceeds levels prevailing elsewhere in government, and are
close to those of the private sector. The pay and quality of supervisory staff must be sufficient so
that the staff will eventually command the respect of and be taken seriously by the institutions
they are asked to supervise. With the help of international consultants, SBP is currently
developing a plan for future staff compensation and recruitment.



- 22 -
4.30        Problem Banks and Enforcement. The laws have been amended to make it
possible for SBP to enforce prudential regulations and initiate bank closure procedures if a
problem bank were not showing any improvement. To translate these laws into practice, SBP
has totally revamped its banking supervision structure, and is issuing new regulations and taking
steps to enforce them. SBP will also develop the capability to handle bank closures and facilitate
mergers and acquisitions. SBP staff will also need to equip themselves to manage bank failures
based on the experience of other countries and on local conditions.
4.31        Deposit Insurance. Deposits at nationalized commercial banks are guaranteed by
the Government of Pakistan. Deposits in domestic private banks are not. Private domestic banks
account for about 7 percent of bank deposits in Pakistan but that share is growing, and it will
increase significantly as privatization moves forward. During the next several years a deposit
insurance system will be developed in Pakistan. Such a system would provide limited deposit
insurance coverage when a bank fails, thereby making it more feasible to close banks and
lessening the potential exposure of the Government and SBP in the event of a bank failure.
Active consideration is being given to establish a Pakistani deposit insurance system.
4.32        Bank Audits. SBP has the authority to prescribe standards for external audits.
Apparently, many bank audits do not meet rigorous standards. The authority to prescribe audit
contents and maintain an approved list of auditors will be pursued more vigorously and be made
to complement and strengthen SBP's supervisory activities. If external audits cover appropriate
ground and are dependable, SBP may be able to use them to economize on its own scarce
supervisory resources, especially in the case of stronger banks.
4.33        SBP has required all banks to pursue a strong internal audit program. Those
responsible for internal audits should report directly to the bank's board of directors and be
insulated from bank management so that they may be free to call attention to operating
deficiencies within the bank. SBP will prescribe more stringent audit standards within a year.
D. Promoting Market Integration
4.34        Liberalization will improve resource allocation, promote financial interrnediation,
help reduce the fiscal deficit by containing interest subsidies, and promote transparency and
market discipline especially for government borrowing. The main causes of market
segmentation have been the control on yields on government securities through a control on the
volume of auctions, the high statutory liquidity reserve requirement for banks to provide a
captive market for low-yielding government securities, the administered rates on the National
Savings Schemes and interest subsidies for the Special Credit Programs. Another major source
of market segmentation, the subsidized forward foreign exchange cover on FCDs by SBP, will be
reformed with the assistance of the IMF.
4.35        Statutory Liquidity Reserve Requirements (SLR) and Auctions of Government
Securities. Until recently, banks were required to invest 25 percent of their demand and time



- 23 -
deposit liabilities in approved securities, mainly consisting of 6-month treasury bills (replaced
with short-term federal bonds since July 1, 1996) and medium to long-term federal investment
bonds. This requirement made banks a captive market for public debt instruments, enabling the
Government to borrow from the banking system at below market interest rates. Interest rates on
government securities were further administered by cutting-off auctions at pre-determined cut-off
rates. Recently, the SLR has been reduced by five percentage points. SBP plans to further
reduce the SLR over an appropriate period of time. At the same time, SBP has started the
practice of pre-announcing the volume of securities to be auctioned each time and allowing the
bidding process to determine the yield on T-bills. These measures have probably contributed to
the rise in interest rates on public debt instruments to about 17.5 percent, a rate considered in line
with the budget deficit, the inflation rate and prevailing market conditions. During the past
several weeks, loan demand from the private sector has been slack, financial markets have
become more liquid, and T-bill rates have fallen back to about 15.5 percent.
4.36        National Saving Schemes. The interest rates on National Saving Schemes (NSS)
acquired on or after November 13, 1996 have been increased to facilitate the Government's
borrowing from the non-bank market. On 3-year Special Saving Certificates (registered) the rate
has been increased from 15 percent to 16 percent p.a. for the first two and a half year and from 17
percent to 18 percent for the last six months. The compound annual rate on 10-year Defense
Savings Certificates has been increased from 16 percent to 18 percent. Similarly, value of prizes
available in the Prize Bonds Scheme has been substantially increased. These changes have
increased the differential between the rates on the National Saving Schemes available to the non-
bank public and on public debt instruments (Short-term Federal Bonds and medium to long-term
Federal Investment Bonds) held by the banks, increasing disintermediation. Favorable tax
treatment on NSS has further increased the wedge between the two market segments. To reduce
market segmentation and disinternediation, the Government is committed to benchmark the NSS
yields on market-determined rates for government securities of similar maturities, taking account
of differing transaction costs, and to rationalize their tax treatment, by June 1998.
4.37        Special Credit Programs. Mandatory and concessional credit schemes have
created distortions, misallocated resources, created quasi fiscal deficits, and increased the fiscal
deficit without really achieving the objective of correcting for market failures. Mandatory and
concessional credit programs were meant to direct credit to sectors and clients with limited
access. However, low rates of interest have lead to rationing of available credit on political
grounds, usually at the expense of the intended beneficiaries. In view of the above, SBP has
eliminated new funding for most programs. In the case of agriculture lending, SBP has stopped
making new loans through refinancing to the Agriculture Development Bank of Pakistan,
although the latter continues to recycle some of its agricultural credits while slowly repaying
SBP. In the case of the locally manufactured machinery lending scheme, the lending rate has
been raised, and the program has steadily declined in nominal terms.
4.38        Currently, the only significant program for which concessionary SBP refinancing
is being provided is export financing. Although recent changes have made the scheme less
attractive to lenders (e.g., the lender's spread has been reduced from 3 to 2 percent), the lending
rate itself has been reduced and the amount disbursed has increased in line with other private



- 24 -
sector financing. Due to the need to boost export, SBP does not consider it timely to phase out
this scheme until other alternatives can be found. Considering its complexity, this issue will be
assessed thoroughly, and needed reforms undertaken under a proposed trade policy and export
promotion project. Overall, the absolute amount and the share of concessionary financing to
total private sector financing (including export financing) has declined significantly as a
consequence of the above-mentioned reform measures.
E. Improving LIegal and Judicial Enforcement of Financial Contracts
4.39        The goal of legal and judicial reform is to: (a) insulate state-owned financial
institutions and the central bank from undue interference; and (b) facilitate the process by which
all financial institutions can gain control over their collateral and enforce other legal and judicial
remedies speedily and cheaply.
Banking Institutions Law Reform
4.40        While a significant part of the banking system is still owned by the state, there
was need to insulate it from undue interference to enable it to function on commercial grounds.
The central bank, which has also been subject to such interference in the past, needed to be given
sufficient autonomy and authority. Although the promotion of good governance of state-owned
financial institutions and the central bank is largely a function of political will and culture, an
adequate legal framework can help engender them.
4.41        The main objective of amending the banking institutions laws was to achieve the
following reforms: (a) The presidents and board chairmen of state-owned banks and financial
institutions would be appointed from a panel of qualified professionals maintained and updated
by SBP, while board members would be appointed in consultation with SBP. Security of tenure
would be assured through three year fixed-term appointments. All selections, promotions and
transfers of staff of these banks and decisions on remuneration and benefits would be made by a
bank president provided they were in accordance with personnel policies approved by the board,
consistent with SBP guidelines. (b) State-owned financial institutions would be mandated to be
run in accordance with sound business principles, prudent banking practices, and the SBP's
prudential regulations and policy directives, and government agencies would not have the
authority to issue directives to them in the running of their business that are inconsistent with
SBP guidelines. (c) The exercise by SBP of its bank licensing powers would not be obstructed
by the state, and the exercise of its license revocation powers would be appealable not to the state
but to the High Court. (d) Monetary policy would be conducted exclusively by SBP. (e) SBP's
accounts would be audited and reported upon by statutory auditors appointed in accordance with
the SBP Act and there would be no further audit by any state agency.
4.42        To effect these reforms the interim government adopted appropriate ordinances in
February 1997 amending the State Bank of Pakistan Act, 1956, the Banking Companies
Ordinance, 1962 and the Banks Nationalization Act, 1974. These ordinances were subsequently
enacted into law by Parliament in May 1997. The appointment of the new presidents and boards



- 25 -
of the NCBs and DFIs has been made in accordance with the new rules. The SBP's board has
been reconstituted and made more autonomous according to the new rules.
Collateral and Foreclosure Law Reform
4.43        Under the current law, the principal instrument available to banks and other
financial institutions for the creation of security for their loans is a mortgage where the collateral
is an immovable property, or a hypothecation where the collateral is goods. Of the many
different forms of mortgage provided for by the law, the banks have favored two, namely, the
"registered mortgage" and the "mortgage by deposit of title deeds" or "equitable mortgage". The
registered mortgage attracts a considerable stamp duty, which has discouraged the banks and
their clients from resorting to it freely as a security instrument. In practice, therefore, the
mortgage by deposit of title deeds has come to be widely used by the banks for this purpose.
4.44        This has, however, caused trouble for banks in various ways. For instance, the
slightest defect in the memorandum recording the transaction can invalidate the mortgage itself.
Also, in the absence of a registration requirement, there is no way of telling whether a prior
equitable mortgage exists on the property to be mortgaged. Similarly, where goods are offered
as collateral, there is no way of telling whether these have been hypothecated to more than one
creditors. The current archaic, cumbersome and costly system of creating security does not
appear to be particularly suited to the needs of modern banking, and a clean break from it seems
to be warranted.
4.45        A modern and simple collateral foreclosure law should be enacted, which would
facilitate the banks' efforts at gaining control of their security and recovering debt. Under such a
law, a simple document stating that a given property was being placed under the bank's lien or
charge would suffice to create a security in favor of the bank. This document, containing a
simple declaration signed by the chargor, would be registrable with, say, a Registrar of Bank
Securities, on payment of a nominal registration fee at a flat rate, but would not be subject to any
stamp duty. All standard covenants that set forth the rights and liabilities of the chargor and the
chargee will be incorporated in the law itself to obviate the need to repeat and incorporate them
in the charge document for each transaction. Under the law, the charge would become
immediately enforceable upon failure to pay the secured debt, which means that the chargeholder
would be entitled to take immediate possession of the charged property, and to sell the charged
property, upon the expiry of a suitable notice period, and to apply the proceeds of the sale to the
discharge of the secured debt. Under the law, court remedies would be available to the chargor,
the chargeholder and any third party (e.g., a tenant) claiming an interest in the charged property
for the protection of their rights under the law.
4.46        In the interim, until the proposed collateral law is passed, the current law will
continue to be applied, but certain substantive provisions have been introduced to govern the
exercise by the mortgagee banks of their right to sell the mortgaged property without the
intervention of the court, and to apply the proceeds of the sale to the repayment of the mortgage
money or the discharge of the debt. These amendments are: (a) the mortgagee bank exercising
its right of sale is enabled to transfer unencumbered property rights in the mortgaged property in
the same way as the owner; (b) the mortgagee bank is enabled to obtain, if need be with the



-26 -
assistance of state authorities, vacant possession of the mortgaged property being sold and to
deliver the same to the buyer; and (c) while the court may entertain a challenge to the exercise by
the mortgagee bank of its right of sale, it may do so only upon deposit by the mortgagor of the
amount of the mortgage money or debt.
4.47        To effect the above-mentioned legal reforms, the Parliament passed in May 1997
the Banking Companies (Recovery of Loans, Advances, Credits and Finances) Act of 1997. This
law provides that a default case be disposed off in 90 days, otherwise the defaulter would be
required to furnish security. Moreover, an interim decree can be passed by the banking court in
respect of undisputed claims. Attachment of collaterals is permitted before judgment and
appointment of a receiver. In cases where a bank is authorized to recover or take possession of
the collateral without filing a suit, the bank may at its discretion directly recover its loan by
selling the collateral. Finally, the law dispenses with the need for passing a preliminary decree
relating to suits based on mortgages. The banking court, in such cases, is competent to directly
pass a final decree for foreclosure or sale.
Banking Courts Law Reform
4.48        Until recently, there were two parallel systems of bank loan recovery courts:
Special Banking Courts (SBCs), with jurisdiction over interest-based transactions; and Banking
Tribunals (BTs), with jurisdiction over non-interest based (or so-called Islamic) transactions.
However, the case for maintaining this distinction was considerably weakened by recent High
Court rulings: (a) declaring the BTs to be unconstitutional; and (b) holding that, in any case, the
BTs have no jurisdiction over transactions which are, in substance, interest-based. This meant, in
practice, that even if it is assumed that the two-court system would continue to exist, it would no
longer be up to the banks themselves to decide freely which of these courts to apply for loan
recovery.
4.49        The previous dual system of SBCs and BTs was replaced by a new unified system
of banking courts through the enactment of the Banking Companies (Recovery of Loans,
Advances, Credits and Finances) Act of 1997. Under the new system, one unified court system
deals with the recovery of all loans, whether interest-based or non-interest based. This Act also
creates a more effective two-tier system, whereby cases up to Rs 30 million are to be tried by the
Banking Courts, while cases above this amount are tried by the High Courts. This division of
work will enable the courts to expedite the disposal of the heavy load of pending recovery cases,
and help the financial institutions to recover their debt quickly.
4.50        To increase effective court capacity, the Government has established 34 Banking
Courts, pursuant to the new law, as follows: 5 each at Karachi and Lahore; 3 each at Faisalabad,
Multan, Sukkur and Peshawar; 2 each at Hyderabad, Sialkot and Bhawalpur; and 1 each at other
centers. Four High Court Judges each in Punjab and Sindh and one each in NWFP and
Balochistan, to deal exclusively with banking matters, have been appointed. Adequate capital
budgets for the courts to enable them to start up their operations immediately have been made.
Satisfactory arrangements for allocating an annual budget for the courts to enable them to
continue to work efficiently have been made.



- 27 -
F. Cost of the Program
4.51        The main cost components of the reform program comprise severance payments
for employees laid-off from the NCBs and DFIs, the carrying cost of government securities
issued to financially restructure the NCBs and DFIs, and the expected increase in interest cost on
new government debt as interest rates are liberalized further and the statutory liquidity reserve
requirement of the banks is reduced. The first item is a one-time cost estimated on the basis of
the lay-off of 20,000 redundant bank employees at the after tax cost of Rs 700,000 (Rs 1.2
million before tax) per employee. If the government were to choose this instrument for the
financial clean-up of the NCBs and DFIs, the second item is the annual interest cost on the
government securities issued to replace the "uncollectible" non-performing loans on the basis of
a medium term annual interest rate of 15 percent, and assuming that further refinancing after 6
years is possible.
4.52        The third item derives from financial liberalization as the interest cost on new
government debt, held by the banking system, increases. Interest rates on government debt held
by the public, through the National Savings Scheme, are likely to remain at current levels.
Assuming that the interest rates for new government debt would, on average, be 200 basis points
higher in FYI 997/98 than the current repressed rates, the additional interest cost on new
government debt could be about Rs 9 billion. The annual cost in subsequent years should decline
as interest rates come down with inflation, and gains from fiscal stabilization and improved
banking sector efficiency are realized.
4.53        The annual cost of banking sector reforms would depend on the speed of reform
implementation. The first cost item is expected to be fully incurred in FY 1997/98 as the
severance program is expected to be completed by December 1997. The size of the second cost
item would depend on the timetable for privatization since the government securities should be
issued to replace impaired bank assets only at the point of privatization. The third item is a
recurring but probably a declining cost. For FY 1997/98, the total cost of banking sector reform
could be Rs 23.04 billion, or about 0.8 percent of projected 1997/98 GDP. Financing of the
program is consistent with the agreed macroeconomic framework.
4.54        The privatization of NDFC is expected to be completed in December 1997. The
financial restructuring of NDFC would require the issuance of about Rs 5 billion of government
securities. For FY 1997/98, the semi-annual interest burden on this new government debt would
be about Rs 40 million. During FY 1998/1999, the privatization of UBL, HBL, NBP and IDBP
would imply the issuance of another Rs 55 billion of government securities involving an average
semi-annual interest cost of about Rs 4.1 billion. The total program cost would be Rs 8.6 billion.
Beyond 1999/2000, the annual debt service on government securities issued to replace non-
performing loans will have to continue to be reflected in the budget within an agreed
macroeconomic framework.



-28-
Table6: COST OF THE PROGRAM
(FY 1997-2000)
Rs Billion
1997/98    1998/99    1999/2000
One-time severance payment program for NCBs and
DFIs, on an after-tax basis (20,000 employees)      14.00        0.0         0.0
Annual interest cost on govemment securities issued to
replace non-performing loans of NCBs and DFIs (Rs 60  0.04       4.1         8.3
billion at 15 percent)
Annual increase in interest cost on new government
domestic debt (average 200 b.p. increase in first year,  9.00    4.5          0.0
100 b.p. increase in second year)
Total                          23.04       8.6          8.3



- 29 -
V. THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
A. Country Assistance Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.01        The key objective of the Bank's country assistance strategy (discussed by the
Board on December 19, 1995, and the Progress Report discussed on April 10, 1997) is to help
Pakistan to reduce poverty through investing in people, raising productivity, and promoting
economic growth. To achieve this objective, three development challenges must be met:
supporting fiscal adjustment, expanding access to improved basic social services, and nurturing a
more competitive environment for private investment. The proposed BSAL would help the
government to meet these challenges by supporting fiscal stabilization, improving the private
sector's access to banking services, and helping protect those directly affected by the reform
process. In Pakistan, moreover, these development challenges cannot be effectively met, unless
the core issue of governance, which is pervasive in Pakistan, is addressed. As discussed in
Section IV, the reform strategy supported by BSAL centers around the restoration of governance
in banking.
5.02        Due to past economic mismanagement and inadequate structural reforms, Pakistan
has been facing a difficult external position, with official foreign exchange reserves mainly
financed by potentially volatile and expensive foreign currency deposits (FCD). At the same
time, heavy reliance on FCDs has made the banking sector vulnerable to balance of payments
difficulties at a time when structural problems, principally a rapid accumulation of non-
performing loans and a growing disintermediation, have placed it under great stress. Having won
an unprecedented landslide victory and obtained an absolute majority in parliament, the current
government has moved rapidly to design and implement a "home grown" stabilization and
structural reform program, including a comprehensive banking reform program. It has now
requested for Bank support of its banking sector reform program. These reforms would help to
arrest the deteriorating condition of the banking sector and reduce its vulnerability to balance of
payments difficulties. In doing so, they would strengthen the country's medium-term
macroeconomic outlook and investment prospects.
5.03        In July 1997, agreement between the Authorities and an IMF mission on an
ESAF/EFF arrangement was reached. In parallel with the proposed ESAF/EFF arrangement, the
proposed BSAL would help the government to meet the cost of implementing the agreed
program of stabilization and urgent structural reforms in the banking sector. Funds under the
proposed BSAL are expected to be augmented by cofinancing from the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) in the amount of US$250 million equivalent. The rupee
counterpart funds from the Bank and OECF loans would specifically be used to help finance the
severance payment program in connection with the staff and branch rationalization of the NCBs
and DFIs.
5.04        While the desire to reform is strong, the government's capacity for implementing
needed reforms for the banking sector is limited. As BSAL helps to mend the banking sector at



- 30 -
the policy level, the government also needs assistance at the institutional level to accelerate
implementation of the agreed adjustment program and maintain the quality of reforms. Through
the technical assistance components of an existing Financial Sector Deepening and
Intermediation Project, the Bank is helping to increase institutional capacity for reform
implementation, particularly the central bank's ability to supervise banks and enforce
regulations, and the Privatization Commission's capacity to prepare the NCBs and DFIs for
privatization. Assistance by the Bank at both the policy and institutional levels is required to
realize the government's stabilization and structural reform program in a timely manner.
B. Conditions for Board Presentation
5.05        In line with their "home grown" approach to reform formulation and
implementation, the authorities have prepared and submitted a Letter of Development Policy
(Annex 1). This letter explains the reform measures taken by the Pakistani authorities thus far,
and lays down the medium term reform program for the banking sector. This was discussed and
agreed at negotiations. A Policy Matrix developed with the interim government in December
1996 was discussed with the current government in May 1997. Agreement on the Policy Matrix
was confirmed by the Government and the central bank during negotiations in September 1997
(Annex 2). All conditions for Board presentation have been complied with.
C. Exteral Financing Requirements, Creditworthiness and Exposure
5.06        Medium-term Macroeconomic Scenario. Pakistan's real GDP growth is
projected to average about 5.5 percent a year, with annual inflation of about 7 percent over the
medium-term. Total investment is expected to recover gradually from 18.2 percent of GDP in
1996/97 to 19.5 percent by 1999/2000, mainly due to increased in private investment, which is
projected to rise from 9.5 percent to 11.5 percent of GDP. The domestic savings to GDP ratio,
which had fallen to about 10.6 percent of GDP in 1996/97, is expected to rise to about 15 percent
mainly on account of fiscal tightening, the expected improvement in financial intermediation and
a rise in the household savings rate.
5.07        Balance of Payments Position. Due to weak management of the macroeconomic
policy over the last two years, official foreign exchange reserves fell from US$2.7 billion at end-
June 1995 to only US$600 million by early December 1996. While they have rebounded to
US$1.5 in October 1997, they have been financed mainly by an increasing level of foreign
currency deposits in the banking system, which together with short-term debt has reached about
US$11.5 billion as of mid-October 1997. Assuming continued tightening of the current account
deficit, and a more flexible management of the exchange rate to ensure competitiveness of
exports, the current account deficit is projected to fall from 6.4 percent of GDP to 5.1 percent in
1997/98, and further to 4.2 percent in 1999/2000. Despite this improvement, Pakistan's balance
of payments will remain highly vulnerable to adverse external shocks, particularly potential
outflows of capital from FCDs, though the reliance on FCDs is likely to gradually decline
because of the planned phase out of the highly subsidized forward exchange cover of SBP.



- 31 -
5.08         Pakistan's external capital requirements are estimated to average about US$8
billion a year over the next three years. Official reserves are projected to begin to rise gradually in
terms of import coverage from less than 5 weeks in June 1997 to about 13 weeks over the medium-
term. This projection, however, depends critically on Pakistan's export performance over the next
few years. If the country were to encounter supply-side bottlenecks in non-traditional
manufactured exports or a serious shortfall in the cotton crop, the balance of payments situation
would deteriorate rapidly compared to present projections. Moreover, foreign direct and portfolio
investment flows are assumed to rise as a ratio to total financing requirements (from 12 percent in
1996/97 to 20 percent by 1999/2000). But social uncertainty from a resurgence in general
lawlessness, or serious backtracking on the policies to reform the economy would result in a
significant drop in private flows and the emergence of financing problems for the balance of
payments.
5.09         Creditworthiness. Pakistan is not a severely indebted country: by end-1996/97
total external public and publicly guaranteed debt had increased to US$27.5 billion, or 43 percent
of GDP. The ratio of total debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services rose to 30.8
percent from 26 percent in 1988. (Excluding private non-guaranteed debt and foreign currency
accounts, the total debt service ratio in 1996/97 was 25.5 percent). Assuming satisfactory progress
in key areas of reform (stabilization, taxation, trade policy, and banking), creditworthiness is
expected to gradually improve over the medium term. Total debt as a percentage of GDP is
projected to rise to 45 percent of GDP by 2000 before declining to 33 percent by 2007, and the total
debt service ratio, to 27.8 percent by 2000. Pakistan has serviced promptly its IBRD and IDA debt,
and we expect it to continue to do so. As ongoing loans are disbursed more quickly and loans
disbursed in the late 1980s and early 1990s come due, IBRD debt service indicators will increase in
the short to medium term.
5.10        As indicated in the 1997 CAS Update, IBRD, ADB and Japan are likely to continue
to provide the bulk of development assistance to Pakistan over the medium term. IBRD financing
as a share of total'borrowing should begin to drop toward the end of the decade as Pakistan's access
to foreign private financing improves gradually. Under the base case scenario, exposure ratios are
projected to be within guidelines over the medium term, except for debt service to preferred
creditors as a ratio of total public debt service. This ratio is estimated at 51 percent for 1996/97
(compared to the guideline of 35 percent), reflecting the fact that official bilateral flows
have declined significantly -- since the end of the cold war and the Soviet withdrawal from
Afghanistan -- while flows from multilateral institutions (including the IMF) have risen
substantially. The preferred creditor ratio is expected to decline to 49.5 percent by 2000 and 37.9
percent by 2007. This decline would reflect in part the progress made under the government's
development strategy and the Bank's country assistance strategy to help promote private flows into
Pakistan. IBRD debt service as a share of public debt service is projected to rise from about 15
percent in 1997 to 16.3 percent in 1999 and then fall to 14.9 percent in 1999/2000, compared to the
guideline level of 20 percent. Outstanding loans and guarantees as a share of the IBRD portfolio
(3.2 percent) continues to remain well within the guidelines (10 percent) throughout the decade.
Finally, the IBRD debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services is projected to decline
from 3.6 percent in 1996/97 to 3.3 percent in 1999/2000 and 2.1 percent by 2007, compared to the
guideline level of 4 percent.



-32 -
D. Loan Administration
5.11        Terms and Conditions. At the request of the Government, and consistent with
the country's external debt management policy, the proposed Loan, in the amount of US$250
million equivalent, would be a Single Currency Loan (SCL) in US Dollars, with a 20-year
maturity, including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable US Dollar SCL interest
rate. The loan would be disbursed in one tranche and would be available for disbursement on
effectiveness.
5.12        Disbursement and Procurement. The loan would finance 100 percent of foreign
expenditures associated with the reform program of the Government described in the Letter of
Development Policy, except for items specified in Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement. The total
amount of the loan would be disbursed into a Ministry of Finance account with SBP, opened and
maintained for this purpose.
5.13        Accounts and Audit. SBP will maintain the accounts for this loan in accordance
with sound accounting practices. The accounts and disbursements under the program will be
audited within four months of the end of the fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. The accounts and audit reports will be submitted to the Bank not later than four months
after the close of the fiscal year.
5.14        Monitoring Arrangements. The Ministry of Finance and SBP will be
responsible for monitoring the implementation of the program. The Bank will monitor the
implementation of the reform program with the help of the Letter of Development Policy,
through regular reviews, as well as in the context of the preparation and supervision of other
projects. The Ministry of Finance and SBP will prepare a final report on the progress of the
program within six months after the closing date of the loan, and submit the report to the Bank.
5.15        Environmental Assessment Requirements. In accordance with the Bank's
Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OS. 4.00, Annex A), the proposed
operation has been placed in Category "U" and will not require an environmental assessment.
E. Benefits and Risks
5.16        Benefits. The reform measures have stemmed the flow of bad loans, curtailed
loss-making, and conserved the assets of NCBs and DFIs, while they are being prepared for
privatization. Major defaulters are being aggressively pursued to maximize loan recoveries as
well as signal the Government's resolve to end the default culture. Major market distortions are
being removed to promote greater market integration. Prudential regulations and financial
disclosure requirements are being revised to international standards to increase transparency.
Appropriate laws have been recently enacted to help insulate the NCBs and DFIs from political
interference, enhance the authority and autonomy of the central bank, facilitate the foreclosure of



- 33 -
loan collaterals, and unify the banking court system. Finally, capacity expansion in the central
bank and the courts is being undertaken to enable them to provide good governance and imnpose
financial discipline.
5.17        Risks. The risks are high. The external environment continues to be difficult,
with the downgrading of the country's credit rating. The country's capacity to borrow
domestically and internationally is already stretched. The real sector is experiencing a recession.
A political backlash on the downsizing of NCBs and DFIs could make the program more
difficult to implement. These economic and social uncertainties could stymie implementation of
the agreed stabilization and structural reform program, and weaken the resolve to pursue it to full
fruition. However, the current government enjoys an absolute majority, having won a landslide
victory in the February elections. The strong package of reforms taken before Board would
provide the momentum that would make reversal of reforms less likely. Continued
implementation of the agreed stabilization program is another measure of commitment to
reforms. There is growing public awareness that the options for Pakistan are limited and that
reforms must be implemented since the alternative could be economic and social upheaval. In
the event that, despite risk management, reforms are reversed or materially changed, a loan
acceleration clause would allow the Bank to demand immediate repayment of the proposed loan
by the Borrower.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
6.01        I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Gautam Kaji
Attachments: Annexes 1 - 3
Schedules C - E
Washington, D.C.
November 7, 1997



-34-                               Annex I
Page I of 14
Government of Pakistan
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn                    Islamabad the 28th October, 1997
President
Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Subject:    Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan
Letter of Development Policy
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
A.  RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
After taking office in February 1997, the elected government of Prime Minister
Nawaz Sharif initiated a far-reaching program of stabilization and reform to accelerate
growth, reduce inflation, strengthen the balance of payments, and improve Pakistan's
export competitiveness. To consolidate and expand these initiatives, the Government has
formulated a three-year economic program for FY 98-2000 in consultation with the World
Bank and llIF. In support of this program, the Government has requested financial
assistance from the IMF under its ESAF/EFF facilities, the World Bank, and the Asian
Development Bank and bilateral donors.
1.    Recent Economic Developments
Pakistan's macroeconomic situation deteriorated significantly during the past two
years due to imprudent macroeconomic management. Economic growth slowed down to 3
percent in 1996/97, as a result of disappointing performance of agriculture and a recession
in the manufacturing sector; investment and savings declined as a share of GDP; and the
CPI-based annual rate of inflation reached 12 percent in 1996/97. The fiscal and current
account deficits rose to unsustainably high levels - 6.3 percent of GDP and 6.8 percent of
GDP respectively in 1995/96 and 6.2 percent and 6.4 percent in 1996/97. In addition, the
operating losses of the seven largest non-financial public sector corporations are estimated
to have risen to about 2 percent of GDP in 1996/97. Poor export performance has been
the main factor behind the sharp deterioration in the external position. Pakistan's foreign
exchange reserves fell sharply from S2.7 billion at the end of June 1995 to only $600
million in December 1996, before recovering to about $1.6 billion (seven weeks of
imports) as of late October 1997. Due to increased short-termn borrowing and continued
dependence on foreign currency deposits (FCDs) for financing the balance of payments,
the stock of short-term foreign currency liabilities of the banking system has increased to
$11 billion.
The newly elected government has moved swiftly since February to implement a
comprehensive, "home grown" structural reform program while taking further measures to
stabilize the economy. The following reform measures have already been implemented:
(i) lowering the maximum import tariff from 65% to 45% and reducing the number of
tariff bands and tariff concessions/exemptions; (ii) adopting a policy package for export
promotion; (iii) rationalizing the rates and broadening the bases of the General Sales Tax,
personal income tax, and corporate income tax; (iv) adoption by the four provinces of



-35 -                             Annex 1
Page 2 of 14
agricultural income tax legislation; (v) initiating a comprehensive banking reforn program;
and (vi) rationalizing public expenditures, including further containing non-priority
spending and initiating a restructuring exercise to identify redundant organizations and
staff.
2.    The Government's Macroeconomic Program
In March 1997 the Government, in agreement with the IMF, abandoned the Stand-
by Arrangement concluded in October 1996 and revised by the Interim Government in
December, 1996 and reached agreement on an ME Staff-Monitored Program (SMP)
covering the period April-September 1997. Following achievement of the agreed end-
June performance criteria under the SMP and adoption of the 1997/98 budget by the
National Assembly, the Government and the IMF have reached agreement on a three-year
ESAF/EFF arrangement. The agreement was approved by the IMF Board on 20 October,
1997.
Medium-term Macroeconomic Fram ework The Government's macroeconomic
objectives for the three-year program period, 1997/98 to 1999/2000, are: (i) to raise the
growth rate of GDP to 6 percent a year in real terms; (ii) to progressively reduce annual
inflation to about 7 percent a year; and (iii) to reduce the external current deficit
(excluding official transfers) to 4-4.5 percent of GDP. Higher growth would result from
an increase in domestic investment and from gains in total factor productivity, a key
objective of the structural reform package. The targeted reduction in inflation and
strengthening of the external reserve position would require a substahitial increase in
national savings, based mainly on lower dissavings by the public sector. Government
budgetary revenue is projected to increase to 16.8 percent of GDP by 1999/2000 (from
15.3 percent in 1996/97), current expenditure to fall to 17.2 percent of GDP (from 18.1
percent in 1996/97). Revenue growth would reflect further expansion of the base of the
GST and its extension to the trade sector; expansion of the base of direct taxes, including
to agriculture; and improvements in tax administration and tax compliance. Containment
of credit to the government would create room for credit to the private sector to expand
somewhat faster than the growth in nominal GDP. The efficiency gains associated with
the restructuring and privatization of financial institutions are likely to be reflected in a
narrowing of the spread between deposit and lending rates. This, together with the
declining borrowing requirement of the government, would contribute to a simultaneous
moderation of real lending rates and enhancement of real deposit rates over the program
period.   The above described fiscal and monetary policies, along with structural and
sectoral reforms, should substantialy strengthen Pakistan's external position.
Public Expenditures. Progress has been made in the past year in economizing on
overall budgetary expenditures and reducing spending on lower-priority activities. The
1997/98 budget maintains tight control over expenditures, with civil administration
targeted to remain roughly constant in nonrunal terms and defense expected to decline
significantly as a share of GDP.  Development expenditures have undergone a
comprehensive review with a significant improvement in prioritization and quality of
spending. Subsidies in the federal budget have also been cut back. A major restructuring
exercise has been initiated to identify redundant organizations and surplus staff in the
government and major public sector corporations. The new NFC Award provides a
medium-term framework for the provinces' budgets during the next five years. Funding
allocations for the Social Action Program (SAP) have been appropriately increased. On
2



-36 -                              Annex 1
Page 3 of 14
the other hand, little progress has been made so far in adequately funding non-wage
O&M spending in non-SAP sectors; inefficiencies continue to reduce the effectiveness of
expenditures; budgeting, monitoring, and expenditure management systems still require
significant improvements; and the restructuring exercise has yet to yield major savings. To
address these problems, the program includes a number of actions to contain government
employment, accelerate privatization, restructure government departments and remaining
public enterprises, improve expenditure programmning and information flows, and initiate a
comprehensive civil service reforn. The SAP and high-priority development projects will
continue to be protected from budgetary cutbacks.
Social Impact of Adjustment. By improving Pakistan's medium-term growth
prospects and the pattern of economic growth, the Government's stabilization and reform
program is expected to result in a further reduction in poverty over time. In the short run,
however, there could be potentiaLly adverse consequences for the poor and certain other
groups (e.g. those affected by public sector downsizing). To address such problems, the
Government will be following a multi-pronged strategy. First, by insulating SAP and
high-priority public investments from expenditure cutbacks, the government expects to
maintain the level of basic social services provided to the poor. Second, as part of the
second phase of the SAP, the Government is strengthening the Participatory Development
Program to support NGOs and the private sector in the management and delivery of basic
social services. Third, the government has established the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation
Fund to mobilize and assist poor communities in developing income-generating activities
through human resource development and micro-credit programns. Fourth, the government
has carried out a review of existing public sector safety nets (i.e., Zakat and Ushr, Bait-ul-
Mal), based on which it will ensure more adequate and better targeting of the most
vulnerable groups among the poor. Fifth, the Government will seek technical and financial
assistance from the donor community to finance severance packages for compensation and
retraining of workers affected by the restructuring exercise.
B.  BANKING SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
1.    Program Objectives
The main objectives of the financial sector reforns are to promote financial
savings, improve the process of financial intermediation, enhance competition and ensure
efficient allocation of financial resources and, in the final analysis, facilitate investment and
growth within the framework of relative financial stability and balance of payments
viability. Since the problems of the financial sector had their origin in the nationalisation of
banking institutions, weakening of appropriate regulations, undue outside interference and
the erosion of an accountability mechanism, the thrust of the reform program is to improve
the environment for, and ability of, bank owners, bank management, bank regulators, the
markets and the courts to provide an improved environment of governance and regulation
so as to promote efficient financial intermediation. Accordingly, the reform program under
implementation focuses on: i) speeding up of the privatisation of the state owned
institutions after ensuring necessary restructuring and improved management; ii)
promotion of market integration and competition; iii) improvement of the legal and judicial
process for enforcement of financial contracts; iv) centralisation of the regulatory authority
in the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP); v) strengthening of the SBP's capabilities and
technical skills to perform its enhanced responsibiLities; and vi) an improvement in the
3



37-                              Annex I
Page 4 of 14
environment for prudential regulations and supervision of financial institutions so as to
bring those at par with international standards.
2.    Arrest the Flow and Reducing the Stock of Bad Debt
The banking sector has accumulated a substantial stock of bad debt. As on June
30, 1997, the total amount of bad loans was Rs 128 billion or over 4 per cent of GDP.
However, before the problem could be tackled, it was vital to ensure that flow of bad debt
was reduced to a minimum. For this purpose, several legislative, institutional and
administrative measures have been taken to impart prudence in lending and promote
professional management of financial insttutions in a systematic way. To start with, the
management of banks and their boards have been changed; chief executives appointed
under the new law, in consultation with the SBP, are bankers of high professional
competence; they have been given autonomy and security of tenure and have been given
guidelines to ensure prudence in new lending. Merit-based lending determined on sound
banking principles is essential for containing the flow of bad debt. To this effect, the State
Bank has issued several directives to institutionalise and professionalise the process of
lending and loan recovery. To reinforce the quality of management, the SBP has instructed
banks and DFIs to formulate new lending policies and to improve transparency in lending.
Moreover, a new recovery law has been enacted for the speedy judicial remedy for
overdue obligations. With measures to stop the flow of bad debt, initiatives have also been
taken to recover the large amount of bad debt that had accumulated over the last decade
or so. The SBP has given guidelines on incentives for recovery of bad debts upto
September 5, 1997, after which defaulters are being pursued vigorously for recovery of
loans. Committees have also been constituted for the recovery loans stuck up in sick
industrial units and to look into the feasibility of revival of such units. This phase is to be
followed by a full blown loan recovery effort through the judicial system effective from
September 6, 1997.
3.    Autonomy of the State Bank and an Effective Monetarv Policy
The State Bank Act has been amended to ensure autonomy of its Board of
Directors to forrnulate and implement an independent monetary policy, including a
provision that enables it to determine and enforce the level of government borrowing from
the State Bank of Pakistan. The tenure of the Governor and the Board are statutorily
protected and the Board is required to give independent policy advice to the government
as well as submit a quarterly report on the state of the economy to the Parliament. In
addition to the abolition of the Pakistan Banking Council, earlier set up under the Banks
(Nationalisation) Act, 1974, the State Bank Act stipulates that no government agencies
can directly or indirectly issue any instructions to a banking company that are inconsistent
with the directives and guidelines of the SBP. In this way, the SBP has been made the sole
regulatory authority over the banking system, which is a major step towards improvement
in governance of, and stoppage of interference in, the affairs of the banking companies.
This, in combination with the independence of monetary policy, should begin to enforce
financial discipline and good governance in the banking sector.
4.    Institutionalisation of the Process of Management of NCBs and DFIs
As mentioned before, management and boards of NCBs and DFIs have been
reconstituted on professional basis. More importantly, the process of their appointment
4



-38 -                              Annex I
Page 5 of 14
and removal has been legislated and institutionalised with a major role of the SBP. Under
the amended Banks (Nationalisation) Act, the Presidents/Chairmen are to be appointed
from a panel of "professional bankers" maintained at, and updated by, the SBP. They will
serve for a three year tern and will have security of tenure. Similarly, the boards of
directors of these institutions are to be appointed in consultation with the SBP. Moreover,
all selections, promotions and transfers of the staff of NCBs and DFIs, and decisions on
remuneration and benefits, will be made by the concerned NCBs/DFIs in accordance with
the policies approved by their boards within the broad guidelines of the SBP. The State
Bank has already issued instructions on all the relevant aspects and has begun to audit the
banks for their enforcement.
*The mandate of new management of the NCBs and DFIs is to focus on
conservation of assets, cost reduction, staff and branch rationalisation and loan recovery.
The SBP has issued instructions to reduce the financial intermediation costs by reducing
wasteful expenditure, limiting donations and perks, lowering the maintenance costs of rest
houses and provision of protocol duties to unauthorised persons, and restricting the
interference of trade union leaders in the management of banks. These policies have
already begun to yield results and with control on expenditure and improved profitably,
NCBs and DFIs have begun to reduce lending rates and increase deposit rates voluntarily.
5.    Rationalisation of Manpower and Branches
Currently, the public sector financial institutions are overstaffed and have several
loss making branches. Overstaffng and loss making of branches have been caused by
several factors. Outside interference, poor management, weak regulatory framework,
malpractices and the involvement of "professional" trade union leaders in the decision
making process had contributed to the problem. The recent changes in the laws, and new
management and boards, will ensure that prior to privatisation, the staff and branches of
these institutions are rationalised. Branches will be relocated or adjusted in a manner that
the number of loss making branches is substantially reduced without significantly affecting
banking facilities for the respective areas. Similarly, downsizing will be done principally
through voluntary separation with the help of an attractive severance payment program
"which will be funded with the rupee counterpart of the Banking Sector Adjustment
Loan."
6.    Privatisation
The process of good governance will be carried forward by selling the NCBs and
the DFIs to private investors who possess the expertise, management and technology to
run these institutions prudently and efficiently. The privatisation plan consists of (a)
downsizing and rationalisation of staff and branches, (b) orderly replacement of bad assets
of BBL, UBL, NBP, NDFC and IDBP, (c) orderly divestiture of the Government's
remaining ownership interests in the MCB, ABL, PICIC and BEL, (d) full privatisation of
HBL, UBL, NBP, NDFC, IDBP and First Women Bank; merger/consolidation of NDFC
and RDFC, ADBP and Federal Bank of Co-operatives, and liquidation of YIPs. The
process of privatisation is being expedited and is likely to be completed within two years
as per PFP; with at least one NCB and one DFI to be privatized by June, 1998.
5



39-                                 Annex 1
Page 6 of 14
The divestiture of remaining Government share holding is also expected to be completed
by March, 1998.
7.    Carving Out Bad Assets
To attract bonafide investors and enhance the transparency of the privatisation
process, the bad assets of NCBs and DFIs will be removed. However, to ensure that
financial restructuring is not done prematurely, the removal of bad assets will be
undertaken only at the point of privatisation. The book value of bad assets will first be
offset against related reserves and the remaining capital accounts of the institutions. The
residual deficiencies will be made up by the Government with good assets to the extent
that the net worth of these institutions can be brought to zero in selecting the financial
restructuring instrument. The government will ensure that the chosen instrument is
consistent with the agreed macro-economic framework as indicated on the PFP. In view of
the severe budgetary constraints, funding will, most likely, have to be arranged through
the SBP and international agencies.
8.    Transparenca of the Privatisation Process
The Privatisation Commission (PC) has contracted fully qualified investment
advisors to assist in structuring of the sales transactions and developing related marketing
efforts. The PC, in close coDlaboration with the SBP, is preparing complete information
packages on each institution that will provide the prospective bidders with sufficient
information to undertake informed analysis of the transactions and do their own thorough
due diligence. All pre-qualified bidders will be allowed to perform on-site due diligence to
make the transactions as transparent as possible, and increase bidders' confidence in the
process. The most crucial information required by the prospective bidders relates to the
bad assets (that are expected to be removed from the institutions) and the extent of staff
and branch rationalisation to be undertaken prior to sale.
9.    Selection of Bidders
The objective is to attract as many quaiified bidders as possible; while quickly
screening out those that lack the required financial strength, background or character.
Bidders will be required to submit complete financial information on themselves and the
companies they represent, including personal resume with verifiable past history, current
employment, business associations and full disclosure regarding past personal, or related,
company bankruptcies or creditor compromises. Written details regarding the financing
arrangements for the purchase price, the required recapitalisation of the institutions, and
the expected sources for repayment of resultant debt will be required. High financing
ratios for bank acquisitions often increase the level of moral hazards and, on occasions,
serve as precursors of self serving activity on part of the insiders. Care will be exercised
before accepting a bid in cases where more than 60 per cent of the funding is being
financed and the bidder cannot demonstrate a clear and independent ability to service the
debt. In addition, bidders will be required to submit a detailed restructuring plan for the
institution, which will be subject to the approval of the SBP.
6



-40-                                Annex I
Page 7 of 14
10.   Bid Meetings and Acceptance of Bids
Meetings wiDl be held with all pre-screened bidders prior to any on-site due
diligence, and before the information packages are distributed. General guidelines and
conditions regarding the transactions, including required minimum capital levels will be
clearly described. The due time and date of the bids, the method and location for their
submission will be disclosed and made distinctly clear. Bidders will also be advised that the
inforrnation packages and any other data made available to them regarding the institutions
are confidential and that each bidder is expected to discuss the subject matter only on a
"need to know" basis. Bidders will likewise be discouraged from discussing the
transactions among themselves since such exchanges can lead to lower bid prices and side
deals amongst the bidders. Conversely, the PC, in close collaboration with the SBP, will
treat all bidders alike and information provided to one bidder, either at the bid meeting or
otherwise, will also be provided to all other participants.
11.   Capital Requirement for the Privatised NCBs and DFIs
The objective is to increase the risk-based capital levels of each of the privatised
institutions to at least 8 per cent. However, requiring private investors to achieve this
capital level immediately might preclude many otherwise qualified bidders, particularly
domestic investors. Thus the sale of BBL, UBL, NBP and NDFC will be contingent upon
acquirers reaching an understanding with the SBP on the restructuring plan so as to
achieve 8 per cent capital adequacy of the take over of a privatised institution within a
reasonable period, alongwith the fulfillment of all other prudential requirements prescribed
by the SBP or a regulatory agency abroad where branches of a bank are located.
12.   Strengthening Prudential Regulations and Banking Supervision
The objective is to develop a regulatory and supervisory system that will
accurately assess the conditions of banks and deposit-taking non banking financial
institution (NBFI) and, where problems exist, take action to rectify them. The system will
prescribe capital standards, loan concentration limits. Provisioning norms, and reporting
requirements, consistent with international standards, and ensure that such policies are
pursued by NCBslDFIs. Supervision will be carried out by qualified staff, who will gain
the respect of the financial community. The supervision will be done through an
appropriate mixture of on-site examinations and off-site analysis.
13.   Reportin. Disclosure and Off-Site Supervision
At present reports submitted by the banks to the SBP include substantial details in
some areas, but omit important information that is necessary to assess their conditions.
Banks are not required to submit an income report according to any format prescribed by
the SBP. Within the next several months, the revamped banking supervision system of the
SBP will take hold and information on early warning, off-site and on-site inspection will
begin to flow in an integrated manner focused on risk analysis of banking institutions. In
addition to an income report, banks will report balance sheet data in a more simple,
transparent format that will include current figures on non-performing loans and estimated
required provisions. The new reports will then provide the basis for analysis of the
conditions and performance of individual banks in Pakistan. Such analysis will play an
7



-41-                                Annex I
Page 8 of 14
important role in developing increased staff understanding of the factors affecting bank
performance and risk.
Full reliance on reports submitted by banks presupposes that infornation supplied
is accurate. In due course on-site examinations will help ensure the accuracy of the
reports. The interaction of off-site and on-site supervision can be particularly important in
helping SBP to allocate staff resources used in on-site examinations to handle the problem
banks. Once the quality of reporting reaches satisfactory levels and authorities are
comfortable with such reports, the information from individual banks will be available to
the public in an effort to make the overall financial system transparent and subject to
greater market discipline.
At present, annual balance sheets and income statements from audited reports are
made available to the public once a year, three or four months after the end of the year.
Apart from the time lag, these reports contain inaccuracies. Income and net worth do not
reflect required provisioning for many banks. The public is entitled to accurate
information, especially where their deposits may be at risk and where they are current, or
potential, shareholders of the banks. For these reasons, the SBP will require banks to
report provisioning requirements and income net worth that reflect such requirements. The
SBP has announced revised reporting requirements based on accounting standards that are
consistent with international norms. Revised reporting will begin later in 1997 alongwith
initial efforts at off-site monitoring. Data from these reports will be made available to the
public in 1998. The SBP will require banks to report provisioning requirements and
appropriately adjust net income and net worth in 1998, based on 1997 reports.
14.   Role of Bank Examinations
In the past on-site examinations have focused, to a considerable extent, on
determining whether banks were complying with certain legal requirements. Violations
generally resulted in the imposition of fines. Examinations paid little attention to such
factors as determination of the overall performance, risk profile and the quality of
management of the banks. Doing so effectively presupposes a well defined mission and
well trained staff. Well-focused on-site examinations can serve to allocate limited staff
resources to the most important supervisory tasks. This may require departure from
current rules regarding loan and branch coverage, and knowing when to cut short
examinations so that supervisory staff can be shifted from unnecessary review of good
banks to more detailed review of bad banks.
The SBP has hired the services of an international consulting firm, in consultation
with the World Bank, whose mission includes, interaGia, modernising and re-orienting on-
site bank examinations in Pakistan. It will include participating in on-site examination,
developing a satisfactory examination manual that focuses on bank risk and performance,
an appropriate examination report, and initiating training efforts to enable supervisory staff
to act effectively in the future. The SBP is keen to move forward as rapidly as possible in
improving the examination process, although successful implementation in this area may
take several years.
8



-42 -                                 Annex I
Page 9 of 14
15.   Ouality of Examination Staff
The present bank supervisory staff in SBP apparently has had limited training in basic
analytical areas such as economiics, finance and accounting. For many years their role was
mainly clerical. It is probably unrealistic to expect the majority of such staff to immediately
function effectively on totally different lines. However, the State Bank has started a crash
recruitment and training program to improve its long-term and short-term staffing and skill
requirements. In the short run, it has recruited several qualified and experienced middle level
staff in the banking supervision departments. Also the State Bank has recruited, in three
batches, about 150 fresh MBAsMAs and after six months' rigorous theoretical and practical
training appointed thern in the banking supervision departments. In the long-run, it is necessary
to recruit qualified young professionals on a continuous basis to keep up with growing staffing
needs. Accordingly, the recruitment process has been nstitutionalized and will continue.
However, it is necessary for SBP to offer compensation that help to attract quality personnel to
their service. The pay and quality of supervisory staff must be sufficient so that the staff
eventually commands the respect of and be taken seriously by, the financial institutions. The
SBP is to develop a plan for staff compensation in the current year. The compensation
package and internal reorganzation of the State Bank will be developed to recruit and retain
appropriate manpower resources for the State Bank of Pakistan.
16.   Canital Reauirements
Currently, minimum capital requirements for banks are based on total callable liabilities.
They are 7.5 per cent for foreign banks, 8 per cent for domestic private banks, and 3 per cent
for nationalized and privatized banks. The Pakistani deposit-based system does not provide the
capital requirement for off-balance sheet exposure, or lower it for holdings of cash and
government securities or take account of borrowings. To strengthen the capital base of the
banking system and to achieve international level consistency Pakistan will move to the Basle
system  of defining minimum  capital requirements.  These requirements will apply to
consolidated bank balance sheets for all Pakistani banks. Capital requirements will also be a
key element in a "performance-based" supervisory system. An exercise to adopt new capital
regulations (BIS standard) has been undertaken and a time table for compliance will be issued
by SBP after the results of the exercise on transitory phase, evolved to meet risk weighted
capital level are known.
17.   Provisions for Loan Losses
At present, loan classifications and provisioning requirements are based principally on
the length of time, interest and/or principal payments which are in arrears in respect of a
particular loan. Some provisioning requirements may appear substantial in view of the value of
loan collateral. However, recovery experience from collateral on non-perfomiing loans has
been extremely disappointing. Even where recovery of principal is eventually achieved, the
process takes so long that the present value of recovery (calculated from the onset of
provisioning) is likely to be modest. Time-based provisioning will continue until satisfactory
court reforms occur and loan collection experience shows considerable improvement. In the
immediate future, the best practice will be to continue time-based provisioning, supplemented
by increased classification and provisioning on those situations where time-based rules
understate likely present value loss. Required provisions as determined by State Bank of
Pakistan will be made, regardless of their impact on net income and on a bank's net worth, and
these data wiU be shown explicitly in published statements of individual banks.
9



43-                                 Annex I
Page lO of 14
18.   Loan Concentrations
Single borrower limits for commnercial banks are 30 per cent of their unimpaired capital
and reserves subject to a maximum of 20 per cent against fund-based and reserves subject to a
maximum of 20 per cent against fund-based facilities. However, until last month a single
borrower, if it was a listed company, could borrow upto 20 per cent of the assets of a non-bank
financial institution. This was found excessive and the limits have since been made consistent
with those of commercial banks.
19.   Lame Credits
Large business groups account for a major share of bank borrowing in Pakistan, and
the perfonnance and creditworthiness of these groups are extremely inportant for bank
performance. The SBP will establish a staff team within supervision departments that will
analyze financial performance of major Pakistani groups and their affliates and its findings will
be available to those engaged in on-site examination.
20.   Interest Accrual on Delinquent Loans
Until last month, the interest income continued to accrue on delinquent long-term loans
for 180 days. This had the effect of discouraging the necessary attention that troubled credits
should receive and it served to overstate income. Instructions have since been issued whereby
accruals on all delinquent loans will now cease and be reversed after 90 days.
21.   Problem Banks and Enforement and Bank Closing Procedure
The laws have been changed to make it possible for the State Bank to identity the
problem banks, take measures to enforce prudential requirements and initiate closing
procedures if a banldng company was not showing improvement. To translate these laws into
ground realities, the State Bank has totally revamped its banking supervision structure, is
issuing new regulations and taking steps to ensure enforcement. The SBP will also develop the
capability to handle bank closures and facilitate mergers or purchase. The SBP staff will also
need to equip itself to manage failures based on the experience of other countries and the local
conditions.
22.   Deposit Insurance
Deposits with nationalized banks are guaranteed by the Government of Pakistan but
deposits with domestic private banks are not Private domestic banks account for about 10 per
cent of bank deposits in Pakistan but their share is growing, and it will increase significantly as
privatization moves forward. During the next several years a deposit insurance system will be
developed in Pakistan. Such a system will provide lirited deposit insurance coverage when a
banks fails, thereby making it more feasible to close banks and lessening the potential exposure
of the Government and the SBP in the event of bank failure. Active consideration is being
given to prepare a deposit insurance system.
23.   Bank Audits
The SBP has the authority to prescribe standards for external audits. Apparently, many
audits do not meet rigorous standards. The authority to prescribe audit contents and to
10



-44-                                 Annex I
Page I1 of 14
maintain an approved list of auditors will be pursued more vigorously and be made to
complement and strengthen the SBP's supervisoxy activities.  If external audits cover
appropriate ground and are dependable, the SBP may be able to use them to economize on its
own scarce supervisory resources, especially in the case of stronger banks.
The SBP has been impressing upon all banks to pursue a strong internal audit program
Those responsible for intemal audits should report directly to the bank's board of directors and
be insulated from bank management so that they may be free to draw the attention of board
mernbers to the operational deficiencies of the bank concerned. The SBP will prescnbe more
stningent audit standards within a year.
24.   Promoting Market Integration
The market integration reforns should remove the major causes of segmentation of
credit market. Significant progress has already been made in this direction. For instance,
control on yields on goverunent securities through a control on the volume of auction has
already been abolished, statutory reserve requirements both for banks and DFIs have been
lowered recently, and interest rate subsidies on special credit programs have been virtually
eliminated as also has been the size of subsidized and directed credit. Two sources of
segmentation, namely, a subsidized forward foreign exchange cover prograrm for FCDs by the
State Bank and the administered rates on national saving schemes still continue. The gradual
phasing out of the subsidized forward foreign exchange cover program will engage the
authorities' attention in the next few years and interest rate structure is in the process of being
rationalized.
25.   Statutor Liquidity Reauirements (SLR) and Auctons of Goverment Securities
Until recently banks and NBFIs were required to invest 25 per cent and 19 per cent,
respectively, of their demand and time deposit liabilities in approved securities.  This
requirement had made banks/DFIs a captive market for public debt instruments, enabling the
Government to borrow from the banldng system at below market rates of return. Effective
May 28 and June 7, 1997, the SLR has been reduced by 5 percentage points, respectively, to
20 per cent in the case of banks and to 14 per cent in the case of NBFIs. This will lead to
improvement in the profitability of banks, higher returns for depositors, increase in financial
savings, and eventually better allocation of resources. We are committed to firther reduce the
SLR at an appropriate time.
26.   National Saving Schemes
Rates of return on National Saving Schemes acquired on or after November 13, 1996
were adjusted in line with market trends, to facilitate government's borrowing from the non-
bank market. On 3-year Special Saving Certificates (registered), the rate of return was
increased from 15 per cent to 16 per cent p.a. for the first two and a half years and from 17 per
cent to 18 per cent for the last six months. The compound annual rate of return on 10-year
Defence Savings Certificates was increased from 16 per cent to 18 per cent. Similarly, value of
prizes available in the Prize Bonds Scheme were increased significantly. The Government
remains committed to rationalizing tax treatment of various saving instruments so that pricing
mechanism is allowed to promote integration of the credit and savings market. We expect this
reform to be in place by June 1998, after completion of a study on this issue for which ADB
technical assistance is being provided.
11



-45 -                                Annex 1
Page 12 of 14
27    Special Credit Program
Mandatory and concessional credit schemes create distortions, mis-allocate resources,
create quasi fiscal deficits and contribute to dis-intermediation as they eventually reduce the
interest received by depositors. In view of the above, the authorities have reduced mandatory
and concessionary credt schemes, and are committed to substantialy phase them out in the line
with the gradual removal of excess burden of stuck-up loans and high administrative costs on
the rates of interest.
28.   Collateral and Foreclosure Law Reforms
As a part of Banling Sector Reforms Program, foUlowing laws have recently been
passed:-
i)    Banking Companies (Recovery of Loans, Advances, Credits and Fmances)
Act, 1997.
ii)    Banks (Nadonization) (Amendment) Act, 1997.
iii)    Banking Companies (Amendment) Act, 1997.
iv)    State Bank ofPalistan (Amendment) Act, 1997.
These laws are of far reaching importance. The law regarding recovery of defaulted loans and
advances is a comprehensive piece of legislation which will enable the banks to deal with
recovery of stuck up loans/advances. Its main features, inter-alia, are  mmarized below:-
i)    Disposal of a suit is required to be made within ninety days and in case
proceedings continue beyond the said period, the court may ask the defaulter to
furnish security.
it)    An interim decree can be passed by Banking Courts in respect of claim or
amount which is not disputed.
iit)    Effective mode of execution has now been laid down in the law.
iv)    There can be attachment before judgmnent and appointment of receiver under
the law.
v)    In case where a banking company is authorized to recover or take over
possession of the property without filing a suit, the bank may at its discretion
directly recover the same if the property is available.
vi)    The new law dispenses with the need of passing a preliminary decree relating to
suits based on mortgages. The Baning Courts will in such cases be competent
to directly pass a final decree for foreclosure or sale.
vii)   It provides for recovery of loans written off under any compromise, inclusive
of adjustment of a decree made on or after 1st January, 1990, if such write offs,
compromise or adjustment was found to be based on political grounds or
considerations other than bonafide business considerations.
viii)   The Federal Government is empowered under the above law to establish as
many Banking Courts as it considers necessary for the purpose of expeditious
recovery of stuck up loans. Banldng Courts will exercise jurisdiction in respect
of claims based on a loan or finance where the amount does not exceed Rs 30
million. However, where the amount exceeds Rs 30 million the High Court of
the area will exercise jurisdiction. It has been laid down in the law that the
12



-46-                                 Annex 1
Page 13 of 14
Federal Govemnment may request the Chief Justice that no other work be
assigned to such a judge so that cases are decided expeditiously.
Again vaious amendments have been made in the Banking Companies Ordinance,
1962 to enhance effectveness of State Bank of Pakistan as a supervisory and regulatory body
and to protect and safeguard interests of bankcs and depositors. A few important modifications
made in the law are enumerated below:-
i)    In order to curb disruptive trade union activites it has now been laid down that
no officer or member of trade union will interfere in the adnisrative matters
of a banking company nor shall use any bank faciity including a car or
telephone to promote illegal trade union activities. No one can carry weapons
into bank premises unless so authorzed by the managenent.
i)    Special provision to maintain fidelity and secrecy relating to affairs of bank
customers has been introduced.
iii)   Banks have now been obligated to disclose infonnation in respect of loans
written off or other financial relief of Rs 500,000 or above while publishing
their balance sheet and profit and loss account.
iv)    State Bank has now been authorized to lay down general guidelines for
fcilitating recovery of stuck up loans by making adjustments or remission in
relation to interest or mark up or part of the principal amount. Following this
conferment of power the State Bank has issued guidelines to banks to give one
time concession to loan defaulters.
v)    Provision has been made reiterating responsibility and duty of the State Bank to
systematically monitor the performance of every banldng company. The State
Bank is now required to send quarterly report to the Federal Government on
problem banks. The State Bank has since developed an early warning systern
and has started monitoring performance of the banks.
vi)   The State Bank has been authorized to prosecute a Director or Chief Executive
or other officer if they are found responsible for causing loss to depositors'
money or to the income of the banking company.
vi)   The amount of fine in case of certain violations of the Ordinance has been
suitably enhanced.
viii)  The amended law also contemplates setting up of a Banling Mohtasib
(Ombudsman). He will be appointed by the President of Pakistan in
consultation with Governor, State Bank of Pakistan.
29.   Setting up of the Banking Courts
As already stated above under the new recovery law a number of Banling Courts will
be set up to deal with claims upto Rs 30 million. Special benches of Hgh Courts will be set up
which will dispose of cases of stuck up loans exceeding Rs 30 million. The State Bank had
13



-47 -                               Annex 1
Page 14 of 14
asked the Banks to finmish information in respect of number of pending cases so as to enable
the Govemment and State Bank to take a decision about the number of cous required in
difet aras As per informatim received there are presety about 62700 cases of sitck up
loans of less tm Rs 30 milli each and about 780 cases exceeding Rs 30 mMion eadch Based
on this information we have decided to set up 11 additional Banking Courts and 6 High Court
Judges to deal with stuck up loans, bringing the total number of banldng courts to 35. The
Banks have offered to finance by contibutio expenses of new courts if the Govement fces
any budgetary constaint to meet expenditure on account of setting up of courts It has been
laid down in the law that the courts wi dispose of cases within 90 days and in case proceeding
continue beyond this peiod, the defaulters wi be required to firmish security. The State Bank
of Pakistan has notified a loan incentive scheme across the board to effect expeditious recovery
and for this purpose has given tnme upto 5th September, 1997. Banks have been advised that
after expiy ofthis deadlie they should insitute suits against the defaukers and for this purpose
make all the preparatory arrangements in advance.
(Sartaj Aziz)                                      (Dr. Muhammad Yaqub)
Fnance Miister,                                    Govemnor,
Government of Paistan.                             State Bank of Paistan



4 8 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
PROPOSED BANKING SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Single Tranche Operation)
Policy Matrix - Conditions for Board Presentation
Reform Objective            Reform Measures                           Explanations
A. Macroeconomic        1. Agreed macroeconomic
Framework               framework in place.
B. Arresting the Flow of   1. Prohibition of NCBs from all    1. Project lending by the NCBs has been the main
Bad Loans               project lending until SBP has   source of default. In December 1996, GOP as
determined that adequate        owner imposed a ban on project lending by the
safeguards against poor lending  NCBs until June 1997. SBP as supervisor
decisions have been installed by    required the new management of the NCBs to
new NCB management.             submit for its clearance well-defined lending
policies, including sanctioning procedures and
powers of various levels of management.
Monitoring by SBP of adherence to new lending
policies is on-going.
C. Preventing the        1. Change in the management of   1. The presidents/managing directors of NCBs and
Deterioration of the    NCBs and DFIs and in the        DFIs have been appointed from a panel of
NCBs and DFIs           process of appointing and       qualified professionals maintained and updated
removing management to          by SBP. Other board members of the NCBs and
insulate it from political      DFIs have been appointed in consultation with
interference and base it solely  SBP. They will serve for a fixed term and will
on professional considerations.  have security of tenure. All selections,
promotions and transfers of staff and decisions on
remuneration and benefits are now the
prerogative of the presidents/managing directors
in accordance with personnel policies approved
by the boards, without government interference.
2. Imposition by SBP of         2. The NCBs and DFIs have submitted satisfactory
satisfactory rules and guidelines    action plans to SBP which spell out the mandate
for the governance of NCBs      of the caretaker management until these
and DFIs for the period before  institutions are privatized. The mandate focuses
privatization to make certain   management mainly on conservation of asset, cost
that their managements function    reduction, staff and branch rationalization, and
primarily as caretakers focusing    loan recovery.
on recovery of non-performing
loans and preservation of assets.
D. Reducing the Stock of  1. Satisfactory cash recovery from   1. GOP and SBP launched a loan recovery program
Non-Performing         the stock of classified loans,   consisting of two phases. The first, from June 5
Loans                  preferably from the largest     to September 5,1997, was an "amnesty" program
defaulters.                     by which defaulters and "sick units" were given



-49 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
Reform Objective            Reform Measures                          Explanations
incentives to settle their overdues. The second
was the mandatory filing with the new banking
courts of default cases of those borrowers who
did not take advantage of the amnesty by
September 30, 1997. New NCB and DFI
management have also focused on loan recovery.
To date, these efforts have resulted in satisfactory
loan recovery.
E. Preparing the NCBs    1. Satisfactory staff and branch  1. (a) Attractive severance payment and early
and DFIs for           rationalization by HBL, UBL,      retirement programs enabled voluntary
privatization, and     NBP, NDFC and IDBP.                separation to the extent needed to reduce
completing                                                overstaffmg.
divestment of                                          (b) Branch rationalization has resulted in the
partially privatized                                      closure of unviable branches. HBL, UBL and
NCBs and DFIs                                            NBP management have identified more loss-
making branches which would require
merging/closure.
2. Submission of a satisfactory  2. As a section of the LDP.
privatization plan for NCBs and
DFIs that includes the
replacement of all bad assets,
net of reserves and capital, by
the Government with good
assets at the point of sale, and
the possible break-up of HBL
into two or three banks.
3. Appointment of financial    3. A timetable for the completion of the divestiture
advisors to assist in the      program is presented in the LDP.
divestment of remaining shares
owned by the government or
govermment-controlled
institutions in MCB, ABL,
PICIC and BEL.
4. Sale of Habib Credit and    4. This is a fully-owned subsidiary of HBL,
Exchange Bank Ltd.             consisting of the former BCCI branches in
Pakistan. It was sold to strategic foreign
investors.
F. Strengthening        1. Issuance of revised regulations   1. (a) capital adequacy according to BIS standards;
Prudential Regulations  on capital adequacy, interest   (b) interest income would stop accruing on both
and Banking             income recognition, and single    short and long term non-perforning loans
Supervision             borrower limits based on          after 90 days; and
international standards, and   (c) single borrower limits for deposit-taking
announcement of a satisfactory    NBFIs have been made consistent with those
timetable by which all banks      of commercial banks, which are already
must comply.                      consistent with international practice.



-50-                                     Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
Reform Objective           Reform Measures                         Explanations
2. Requirement for all banks to
uniformly follow international
accounting standards and be
audited according to
international auditing standards,
and announcement of a
satisfactory timetable by which
all banks must comply.
3. Requirement for all banks to
disclose provisioning, including
related adjustments in net
income, beginning in 1998,
based on 1997 reports.
4. Recruitment by SBP of an   4. SBP has recruited 20 qualified and experienced
adequate number of skilled and  middle level staff. It has also employed about
experienced bank examiners     130 new graduates (50 with MBA/MA degrees)
locally and abroad.           to serve as apprentices. An international
consulting firm has been contracted to develop its
bank supervision systems and train staff under an
existing Bank project.
5. Abolition of the Pakistan  5. Appropriate amendment to the Bank
Banking Council to unify bank  Nationalization Act was recently passed by
supervision in SBP.           parliament. All assets and liabilities of PBC were
transferred to SBP.
G. Promoting Greater    1. Removal of controls on primary
Market Integration     auctions of government
securities by pre-announcing
volumes and taking up pre-
announced volumes.
2. Reduction in the liquidity
reserve requirement of banks to
20% and that of NBFIs to 14%,
and planned phase-down to a
level appropriate for prudential
purposes.
3. Phase-out of mandatory and
concessionary credits
automatically refinanced by
SBP.
H. Strengthening Legal   I. Enactment of appropriate  1. (a) Enactment of appropriate amendments to the
and Judicial Processes    legislation to ensure that     State Bank of Pakistan Act, 1956, the Banking
selection of management of       Companies, 1962, and the Banks
state-owned banks and financial  Nationalization Act, 1974.
institutions is based on      (b) Enactment of appropriate legislation, with a



-51-                                        Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
Reform Objective            Reform Measures                          Explanations
professional criteria and that    view to enabling banks and other fnancial
these institutions are run        institutions to sell the property mortgaged to
without undue political           them as security for defaulted loans without
interference; to enhance the      the intervention of the court, and to apply the
autonomy and authority of SBP,    proceeds of the sale to the repayment of those
in particular SBP's licensing     loans.
and inspection powers; to      (c) Enactment of appropriate legislation to replace
facilitate foreclosure of loan    the dual system of Special Banking Courts and
collaterals; and to unify the     Banking Tribunals with an unified system of
banking court system.             banking courts, all with a view to enabling the
courts to expedite the disposal of the heavy
load of pending recovery cases, and to
assisting the banks to recover their debt
quickly.
2. Establishment of a satisfactory
number of fully operating
banking courts with adequate
budgets.



-52-                                                  Annex 3
Page 1 of 15
Islamic Republic of Pakistan - Proposed Bankdng Sector Adjustment Loan
Key Economic Indicators
Prelm            Projeced
Indicator               1993    1994    1995    19ff    1997        1998     1999    2000
National accounts
(as % GDP at current marcet prices
Gross domestic product                  100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture'                            22.2    22.9    23.3      23.2    22.1      21.5     20.7     19.9
Industr                                 22.6    22.5    21.9      22.1     22.1     22.4     22.7     23.0
Services'                              44.6    44.9    44.4       44.8     45.3     46.1     46.7     47.2
Total Consumption                        85.4    83.8    84.3      85.8     89.4     87.7     86.2      84.7
Gross domestic fixed                     19.1    18.0    17.2      17.0     16.5      16.1     17.2     17.8
investment
Public investnent                        9.1     8.3      8.3      8.1      5.4      4.9      4.8      4.6
Private investment                      10.0     9.6      8.9      8.9    11.1      11.2     12.4     13.2
(excludes increase in stocks)
Exports (GNPFS)b                         16.2    16.2    16.4      16.5     15.1     16.2      17.0     17.3
Inports (GNFS)                           22.3    19.0    19.4      20.9    22.9      21.7     22.0     21.5
Gross domestic savings                   14.6    16.2    15.7      14.2    10.6      12.3     13.8      15.3
Share of EBRD portfolo W. Guantees      14.6    16.2    15.8      14.2     10.6     12.3     13.8     15.3
Gross national savings0                  16.9    18.4    17.4      15.2     12.2     12.9     14.3      15.6
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                  51809   51870   60496    64673   64203   66371    68948    74364
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per              430.0   430.0   470.0    490.0   480.0   500.0    510.0    520.0
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1981
prices)
Gross domestic product at              2.2%    4.5%/   5.3%      4.6%     3.1%     5.5%     5.8%     6.0%
factor cost
Gross Domestic Income                  1.5%    4.2%    6.3%      5.2%     1.9%     5.2%     5.7%     6.0%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (Yo, calculated
from 1981 prices)
Gross domestic product at             -1.1%    0.8%    2.2%      1.7%     0.7%e    2.3%     2.9%     3.2%
market prices
Total consumption                      1.4%   -1.4%    4.0%      3.8%     2.0%     1.1%     1.3%     1.70o
Private consumption                   -0.6%    0.7%/   4.2%      3.8%     3.6%     2.4%     1.0%     1.5%
(continued)



- 53 -                                                Annex 3
Page 2 of 15
Islamic Republic of Pakistan - Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan
Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Prelim    Projected
Indicator               1993    1994    1995    1996       1997     1998    1999    2000
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports (GNFS)b                       8339.0  8369.0  9943.0  10317.0  9812.8  10757.4  11727.0  12867.3
Merchandise FOB                     6782.0  6745.0  8074.0   8652.0  8194.8  9003.6  9845.1  10837.9
Imports (GNFS)b                      12856.0 11066.0 13023.0  15174.0  14681.3  14425.0  15163.1  15962.0
Merchandise FOB                    10049.0  8685.0 10296.0  12015.0  11418.4  11353.9  11915.0  12539.5
Resource balance                     4517.0  -2697.0  -3080.0  4857.0  4868.5  -3667.5  -3436.1  -3094.7
Net current transfers                 2689.0  2704.0  2709.0   2605.0  3207.4  2735.7  2791.5   2804.2
(including official cutrent
transfers)
Current account balance              -.3326.0  -1590.0  -2101.0   4195.0  -3821.7  -3262.2  -3145.7  -2891.2
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct             310.0   360.0   440.0   1106.0   703.0   750.0    884.0    992.0
investment
Long-term loans (net)                 1491.0  1370.5  1485.0   1442.2  1960.3  2246.5  2352.3  2142.1
Official                             1166.0  1203.0   908.0   1424.0   1163.5  1258.1   1335.3   1118.1
Private                               325.0   167.5   577.0      18.2   796.8   988.4  1017.1   1024.0
Other capital (net including           936.0  1444.5   423.0   1196.8   518.3   501.0   375.0   245.0
errors and omissions)
Change in reservegd                    589.0  -1585.0  -247.0    450.0   640.0  -235.3  -465.7   -488.0
Memoeandum items
Resource balance (% of                  -8.7%   -5.2%   -5.1%    -7.5%    -7.6%    -5.5%    -5.0%    -4.2%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(FY81 prices)
Merchandise exports                   .0.3%   -0.6%    19.6%      7.2%    -6.4%     7.6%     6.7%     7.3%
(FOB)
Merchandise inmports                   11.7%  -13.6%   18.6%    16.7%    -3.9%    -1.0%      3.3%     3.5%
(CEF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Current revenues                        17.9    17.3    17.2      17.0    15.3      15.7      16.4     16.8
Current expenditures                    20.3    18.7    18.7      19.5     18.0     17.6     17.5      17.2
(Continued)



-54 -                                                   Annex 3
Page 3 of 15
Islamic Republic of Pakistan - Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan
Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Prelim Projected
Indicator                1993    1994    1995      1996     1997      1998     1999     2000
Current account surplus (+)               -2.5    -1.4    -1.5      -2.5     -2.8      -1.9     -1.1      -.4
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                       5.7      4.6      4.5      4.3      3.4       3.1      3.3      3.6
Foreign financing                         1.9      1.6      1.5      2.0      1.8       1.9      2.0      2.0
Monetary indicators
M2I/GDP (at current market               41.1    41.7    40.8       40.9     39.3      39.0     39.1     39.7
prices)
GrowthofM2(%)                            25.0    18.2    16.7       16.7     10.9      15.7     15.9     15.1
Price indices( FY81 =100)
Merchandise export price                162.8   184.6   233.6    261.6    265.2    270.8    277.5    284.8
index
Merchandise import price                211.9   236.7   277.4    304.0    302.5    304.1    308.8    314.1
index
Merchandise terms of trade               76.8    78.0    84.2       86.0     87.7      89.0     89.9     90.7
index
Real exchangerate, 1981=100                 ..    92.7    94.0      94.0     88.7      85.3     81.8     81.0
(US$ILCUW
Real interest rates
Consumerpriceindex                      9.3%    11.2%    12.9%    10.8%    11.8%    10.5%      9.0%     7.0%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                            8.7%    12.3%    13.4%    11.3%    11.4%    11.0%      9.5%     7.0%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating this fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the government to which the data refer.
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



-55 -                                                 Annex 3
Page 4 of 15
Islamic Republic of Pakistan - Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan
Key Exposure Indicators
Prelim           Projection
hidicator               1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Total debt outstanding and             22182.0  25358.0  29604.0  30824.8  31628.1  33845.6  36225.9  38660.7
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)'
Public & publicly guaranteed, PPG (US$m)   20050.0  22654.0  25298.0  26267.8  27446.1  29360.0  31454.2  33461.6
Net disbursements (US$m)a               1849.0  2469.0  1439.0  1725.8  1810.3  2549.5  2694.3  2552.8
Total debt service (TDS), US$ma         2606.0  2889.0  3860.0  3657.0  3506.2  3484.2  3640.5  4199.8
Total debt service excl. privt non-guar
and FCDs                               2385.0  2621.0  3378.0  3165.5  2901.1   2864.6  2964.6  3474.4
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                                222.4   255.9   247.5   258.3   277.8   275.5   268.3   255.6
TDO/GDP                                  42.8    48.9    48.9    47.7    49.3    51.0    52.5    52.0
PPGIGDP                                  38.7    43.7    41.8    40.6    42.7    44.2    45.6    45.0
TDS/XGS                                  26.1    29.1    32.3    30.6    30.8    28.4    27.0    27.8
TDS(excl. priv. non-guar and FCDs)/XGS   23.9    26.4    28.2    26.5    25.5    23.3    .22.0    23.0
ConcessionalIDO                          60.6    60.1    54.9    59.3    60.8    58.7    56.2    53.4
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
EBRD DS/public DS                        16.0    16.3    13.1    14.1       14.6    15.4    16.3    14.9
Preferred creditor DS/public DS          46.0    47.2    39.8    45.8    50.6    49.4    49.5    48.5
IBRD DS/XGS                               3.2      3.6     3.4      3.7      3.6      3.5      3.5      3.3
Share of BRDportfolio                   2.5%     2.6%     2.7%    2.7%     2.8%     2.9%     3.1%     3.2%
ShareofIBRDportfolioW. Guarantees       2.5%     2.8%     2.9%    3.0%     3.0%     3.2%     3.4%     3.4%
IFC (USSm) Ic
Loans                                    85.1    164.5   128.7  161.7    79.3
Equityandquasi-equity /d                 13.3    13.0    70.6  20.6        8.7
MIGA /c
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                  117.2   150.5   158.0  137.0   158.1
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short term capital.
b. "XGS" denote



-56 -
Annex 3
Islamic Republic of Pakistan - Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan                                                                    Page 5 of 15
NationalAccount
Part A: Current Price Data
Qn bllions of local currency unlts)
Bare-care (gettfngbackon track) scenario
Atlas GNP per capita: S 470 ( 1996)
Midyearpopulation: 131.63 millions
P1elsm                   Projections
1992         1993          1994        1995        1996        1997        1998        199         2000       2007
Gross domestic product atmadcetprices        1211.4       1341.6        1564.6      1866.3     2171.3       2503.3      2920.3      3378.4      3829.6     9077.7
Netindirecttaxes                          133.4         141.5        160.2       194.0       227.9       262.4       295.7       337.2       380.5      904.9
GDPatfictorcost                          107S.0        1200.1       1412.5      1671.7      1957.2      2240.8      2624.6      3041.2      3449.2     8172.8
Agriculture                           282.4        297.8         357.9       434.9       504.5       554.4       626.7       698.0       762.8     1392.4
Indusby, of which                     274.3        303.6         351.7       408.2      4S0.1        552.5       653.1       765.2       880.2     2417.0
Mamufacturing                     186.8        207.6         246.9       286.7       330.1       374.3       444.6       525.8       610.4     1828.6
Services                              521.3        598.7         702.9       828.6       972.6      1133.9      1344.8      1578.1      1806.1     4363.4
Resource balance                              -38.2        -81.7         43.1        -55.9      -95.9       -189.8      -161.4      -168.4      -159.4     -236.0
Exports (GNFS)                            209.2         217.4        254.2       306.2       358.4       382.6       473.3       574.6       662.6     1678.9
Imports (GNFS)                            247.4         299.1        297.3       362.1       454.3       572.4       634.7       743.0       822.0     1914.9
Total ewxnditure                            1249.6        1423.3        1615.9      1921.5     2267.2       2693.1      3081.7      3546.8      3989.0     9313.7
Consumption expenditures                     1005.5       1145.6        1310.4      1572.4     1862.8      2237.9       2562.4      2910.9      3242.0     7340.7
Govement                                  155.6         174.7        189.1       219.1       268.1       284.7       296.1       345.0       389.8     1018.4
Private                                   849.9         970.9       1121.3      1353.3      1594.8      1953.2      2266.3      2565.9      2852.1     6322.3
Gross domestic investment                    244.1         277.7        305.5        349.1      404.3       455.1        519.3       635.9       747.1     1973.0
Total public nvestment                    106.5         121.8        130.5       155.1       175.8       135.1       142.6       160.9       177.3      508.9
Totalgovenmentinvestmentb                  43.0          48A          50.8        58.5        62.8        85.2        89.8       112.0       139.0      442.9
Totalprivateinvesnent                     118.9         134.8        150.4       165.8       193.4       278.4       327.7       419.0       504.7     1332.2
Total fixed irvestsnent                   225.4         256.6        280.9       320.9       369.1       413.5       470.3       579.9       682.1     1841.1
Totalinvestmentinstocks                    18.7          21.1         24.6        28.2        35.2        41.6        49.0        56.0        65.0      131.9
Domestic savings                             205.9         196.0        254.2       293.9       308.4       265.3       357.9       467.5       587.7     1737.0
+Netfactor income                         -31.0         -39.0         48.0       -53.0       -65.0       -84.2       -102.5      -122.6      -133.9     -258.7
+ Net cuent kansfersd                      84.0          70.0         81.0        83.0        87.0       125.1       120.4       136.8        144.4     290.4
= National savings                        258.9         227.0        287.2       328.9       330.4       306.1       375.8       481.8       598.2     1768.8
Goss nationalproduct                         1180.4       1302.6       1516.6       1813.3     2106.3      2419.0       2817.8      3255.9      3695.7     8819.0
Gross national disposable incotne            1264.4       1372.6        1597.6      1896.3     2193.3      2544.1      2938.2.      3392.7      3840.1     9109.4
a 'GNFS' denotes 'goods and nonfactor services.'
b, Gross domestic fixed capita fbimon only
c. Derived as a residual; does not includes increase in stocks.
d. Total netunrequited tansfers exchlding official capital grants



-57 -
Annex 3
Islamic Republic of Pakistan - Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan                                                               Page 6 of 15
NationalAccountk (continued)
Part B: Shares of Gross Domestic Product
(percentages calculated using current price data)
Base-case (gettng back on track) scenemno
Prelimn             Projections
1992         1993          1994        1995        1996        1997        1998        1999        2000       2007
Gross domestic oduct                          100.0        100.0         100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0       100.0
Netindirecttas                             11.0          10.5         10.2        10.4        10.5        10.5         10.1        10.0         9.9       10.0
Agriculture vahue added                    23.3          22.2         22.9        23.3        23.2        22.1         21.5        20.7        19.9       15.3
Indusbryvalue added, ofwhivch              22.6          22.6         22.5        21.9        22.1        22.1         22.4        22.7        23.0       26.6
Marufacting                             15.4         15.5          15.8        15.4        15.2        15.0        15.2        15.6        15.9        20.1
Servicesvahue added                        43.0          44.6         44.9        44.4        44.8        45.3         46.1        46.7        47.2       48.1
Rw wcebalac(X-M)                               -3.2         46.1          -2.8        -3.0         4.4        -7.6        -5.5         -5.0        -4.2       -2.6
Exports (GNFS)                             17.3          16.2         16.2         16.4       16.5        15.3         16.2        17.0        17.3       18.5
Imports (GNFS)                             20.4          22.3         19.0        19.4        20.9        22.9         21.7        22.0        21.5       21.1
Total expenditure                             103.2        106.1         103.3       103.0       104.4       107.6       105.5       105.0        104.2      102.6
Govemment cosmiption                       12.8         13.0          12.1        11.7        12.3        11.4        10.1        10.2        10.2        11.2
Private cOnSumPtio                         70.2         72.4          71.7        72.5        73.4        78.0        77.6        76.0        74.5        69.6
Govenment investment                        3.5          3.6           3.2         3.1         2.9         3.4         3.1         3.3         3.6        4.9
Private investment                          9.8         10.0           9.6         8.9         8.9        11.1        11.2        12.4        13.2        14.7
Gross domestic savings                        17.0          14.6         16.2         15.7       14.2         10.6        12.3        13.8        15.3       19.1
Gros nationalsavins                           21.4          16.9         18.4        17.4        15.2        12.2         12.9        14.3        15.6       19.5
Memnirandum items
GDPdeflator                               224.7         244.1        274.1       311.0       346.0       385.5        427.9       468.6       501.4      785.0
Consumerpsice index                       219.0         239.3        266.0       300.4       332.8       369.9        409.0       446.7       476.5      742.9
TotalGDP(milimncu mntUSS)               48885.3       51808.9      51870.1     60496.3    64678.5      64202.6      66371.1     68947.7     74363.6   132916.5
Conveisiofworused(LCU/US$)                 24.8          25.9         30.2        30.9        33.6        39.0         44.0        49.0        51.5       68.3
Percpitagroaanaionalproduct               430.0         430.0        430.0       470.0       490.0       480.0        500.0       510.0       520.0      740.0
(Atllsmethod: in 1995 USS)
(continued)
a. "GNFS denotes "goodsandnonfactorservice."



- 58 -
Annex 3
Islamic Republic of Pakistan - Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan                                                               Page 7 of 15
NationalAccounts (continued)
Part C: Constant Price Data
(in local cunrency, constant 1981 prices)
Base-case (getting bac on track) scenano
Prelm              Projections
1992         1993         1994        1995         1996       1997        1998         1999        2000       2007
GDP atmarketprices                            539.2        549.5        570.7       600.1        627.4      649.3        682.5       721.0       763.9     1156.5
GDP at factor cost                            480.5        491.3        513.5        540.5       565.3      582.6        614.8       650.5       689.5     1043.5
Agriculture                                125.4        118.8         125.0       133.2       140.2       141.2       146.7       151.9       157.2      200.0
Industr, of which                          124.3        131.3        137.4        143.7       148.9      153.8        163.8       175.3       188.5      330.5
Manufacting                            85.3          90.0         94.7        98.2       102.6       104.4       111.7        120.6       130.9      250.4
Services                                   230.8        241.2        251.1       263.6       276.1       287.5        304.2       323.4       343.9      513.0
Resource balansce                               2.2        -11.0           4.2        -3.0       -15.1       -17.9        -7.9        -5.1        -1.3       13.3
Eports(GNFS)'                              99.9         101.2        104.3       101.1       103.1        96.7       103.8       110.4        118.0      191.0
Imports (GNFS)                             97.7         112.2        100.1       104.0       118.2       114.5       111.7       115.5       119.3       177.7
Totalexpenditure                              537.0        560.5         566.5       603.0       642.5       667.2       690.4       726.1       765.2     1143.2
Conwmption                                    435.8        455.3         462.2       494.4       527.8       553.1       574.1       597.4       624.1      905.4
Goveanmet                                  60.4          71.1         63.9        67.4        71.9        67.6        63.5        67.8        71.8       120.3
Pfivate                                   375.4         384.2        398.4       427.0       455.8       485.5       510.6       529.7       552.3       785.1
Grss domestic investnent                      101.2        105.2         104.3       108.6       114.7       114.1       116.2       128.7       141.1      237.8
Total govenaimt ivestment                  19.9          20.4         19.6        19.9        19.5        15.6        14.7        16.5        19.1       38.9
Totalprivateinvestnent                     44.9          46.6         47.5        49.0        53.0        57.3        60.2        69.6        78.3       131.8
Totalfixed investmant                      92.5          96.5         95.5       100.0       104.9       103.9       105.5       117.6       129.0      222.3
Totalchangesinstocks                        8.7          8.7           8.8         8.7         9.8        10.2        10.8        11.1        12.0       15.5
Tem-of-trade 1) effect                       -17.3         -19.6        -18.7       -13.1        -9.9       -20.1       -20.5        -21.1       -21.8     -35.2
Gross domestic income                        521.9        529.9         552.0       587.0       617.6       629.2       662.0       700.0       742.1      1121.3
Domestic samg(TT adjusted)                    86.1         74.6          89.8        92.6        89.8        76.2        87.8       102.5       117.9      215.9
Not factororincome                             4.9          3.7           1.3         4.0        4.4        -20.9       -23.0        -25.1       -25.7      -31.8
GNP at mardet prices                         544.1        553.2         572.1       604.1       623.0       628.5       659.5       695.9       738.2      1124.7
(coUd)
a 'GNFS' denotes goods andnonfactor services.'



- 59 -
Annex 3
Islamic Republic of Pakistan - Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan                                                                            Page 8 of 15
NadonalAccounts (continued)
Part D: Annual Growth Rate
(calculated from data In constant 1981 prices)
Base-case (getting back on track) scenario
Prelim               Projectlens
I192          1993           1994         1995         1996          1997         1998         1999          2000        2007
GDP at maket prices                               7.8%           1.9%           3.9%         5.1%         4.6%         3.5%          5.1%         5.70/         5.9%        6.3%
GDPatfactorcost                                   7.7%           2.2%           4.5%         5.3%         4.6%          3.1%         5.5%         5.8%          6.00/%      6.2%
Agriculture                                    9.5%          -5.3%           5.2%         6.6%         5.3%         0.7%          3.90/        3.5%         3.5%         3.5%
Industry, of which                             7.8%           5.6%           4.6%         4.6%         3.6%         3.3%          6.5%         7.0%         7.5%         8.5%
Man-facturing                              8.1%           5.5%           5.2%         3.7/o        4.4%         1.8%         7.0%          8.0%         8.5%       10.0%
Services                                       6.8%           4.5%           41%          5.0%         4.7%         4.1%          5.8%         6.3%         6.3%         5.8%
Exports (GNFS)'                                  13.9%           1.3%           3.1%         -3.1%        2.0%         -6.2%         7.4%         6.3%          6.90/o      7.0%
I-ports (GNFS)                                   30.8%          14.8%         -10.8%         3.9%        13.6%         -3.1%        -2.5%         3.4%          3.3%        6.1%
Total expenditure                                10.3%           4.4%           1.1%         6.4%         6.5%          3.8%         3.5%         5.2%          5.4%        6.2%
Consumption                                   10.2%          4.5%           1.5%         7.0%          6.8%         4.8%         3.8%         4.1%          4.5%        6.0%
Investment                                   10.6%           4.0%          -0.9%         4.2%         5.6%        -0.5%          1.8%        10.7%/o       9.6%         6.7%
Gross domestic income                             8.6%           1.5%           4.2%         6.3%         5.2%         1.9%         5.2%          5.7/o        6.0%        6.3%
Grossdomesticsaving                              -1.1%          -8.9%          15.2%        -2.6%        -5.7%        -3.4%        12.5%         14.1%        13.0%        7.4%
Per capita growth rates
PercapitaGDP(mp)5                              4.6%          -1.1%          0.8%          2.2%         1.7%         0.7%         2.3%          2.90%        3.2%        3.8%
PercapitaGNP (mp)                              3.6%          -1.3%          0.4%          2.7/o        0.3%        -1.8%         2.2%          2.8%         3.3%        3.9%
Per capitatotal consumption                    6.9%           1.4%          -1.4%        4.0%          3.8%         2.0%         1.1%          1.3%         1.7%        3.5%
Percapitaprivateconsumption                   10.4%          -0.6%          0.7%          4.2%         3.8%         3.6%         2.4%          1.0%/0       1.5%        3.1%
a. 'GNFS' denotes "goods and nonfactor services.'
b. "mp- denotes "madret pricesW



-60 -
Islamic Republic of Pakistan - Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan                                                                           Annex 3
Balance of Payments                                                                                       Page 9 of 15
Base-case (getting back on track) scenano                                                                                         (USS millions at current prices)
Preim                              Proecffions
199Z         199.         1994        1995          1996         1997          1998          1999        Z2U0           2007
Total exports of GNFS'                       S273.0        8339.0       8369.0      9943.0       10317.0       9812.8       10757.4      11727.0       12867.3       24582.3
Merchandise (FOB)                        6762.0        6782.0       6745.0      8074.0        8652.0       8194.8        9003.6       9845.1       10837.9       21167.2
Norfactor services                       1511.0        1557.0       1624.0      1869.0        1665.0       1618.0        1753.8       1881.9        2029.4        3415.2
Total lmportsofGNFS                         11468.2       12856.0      11066.0     13023.0       15174.0      14681.3       14425.0      15163.1       15962.0       28037.5
Merchandise (FOB)                        8998.0       10049.0       8685.0     10296.0       12015.0      11418.4       11353.9       11915.0      12539.5       22382.5
Nonfactor services                       2470.2        2807.0       2381.0      2727.0        3159.0       3262.8        3071.1       3248.1        3422.5        5655.0
Resourcebalance                             -3195.2       4517.0       -2697.0     -3080.0       4857.0        4868.5       -3667.5      -3436.1       -3094.7       -3455.2
Net factor incone                            -1266.0      -1498.0      -1597.0     -1729.0       -1956.0      -2160.6       -2330.3      -2501.1       -2600.7       -3787.6
Factor receipts                             69.0         71.0          96.0       154.0        158.0         162.6        128.4         175.4         259.0        547.4
Factorpyments                             1335.0       1569.0        1693.0      1883.0       2114.0        2323.3       2458.7        2676.6        2859.7       4334.9
Interest (shedruled)                   977.0        1063.0       1191.0      1171.0        1633.0       1258.8        1318.0       1429.0        1516.1        2205.7
Totalinterestpaictb                977.0       1063.0        1191.0      1171.0       1633.0        1258.8       1318.0        1429.0        1516.1        2205.7
Net adjustments to scheled int       0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
Otbefactor psments                     358.0         506.0        502.0       712.0         481.0       1064.4        1140.7        1247.6       1343.6        2129.3
Netpnvate curenttransfecrs                   3114.0        2328.0       2390.0      2397.0        2391.0       2952.4        2599.0       2602.1        2596.2        4011.6
Cuwrentreceipts, of which                 3128.0       2349.0        2413.0      2421.0       2421.0        2982.4       2629.0        2632.1       2626.2        4041.6
Workers remittances                   1468.0        1562.0       1446.0      1866.0       1461.0        1408.4       1400.0        1600.1        2000.2        3891.6
Curentpayments                              14.0         21.0          23.0        24.0         30.0          30.0         30.0          30.0         30.0          30.0
Share oflBRDporfolioW. Guaantees              14.0         21.0         23.0         24.0         30.0         30.0          30.0          30.0         30.0
Netofliciacumenttransafrs                     450.0         361.0        314.0       312.0         214.0        255.0         136.7         189.4        208.1         240.5
Cunent account balance                       -897.2       -3326.0      -1590.0      -2101.0      4195.0       -3821.7       -3262.2      -3145.7       -2891.2       -2990.6
Official capital paS                            0.0           0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Private invsment (net)                        890.9         580.0        649.0      1530.0        1308.0        971.0        1080.0       1346.0        1528.0        3522.0
Directibreigninvestmant                   562.0         310.0        360.0       440.0        1106.0        703.0         750.0        884.0         992.0        2260.9
Podfolio investmnts                       328.9         270.0        289.0      1090.0         202.0        268.0         330.0        462.0         536.0        1261.0
Net L1 borrowing                             1144.2        1491.0       1370.5      1485.0        1442.2       1960.3       2246.5        2352.3        2142.1         979.5
Disantst                                 2104.0        2672.0       3218.0      3270.0        3454.8       3407.3        3679.5       3806.3        4006.1        5047.3
Rcpaemaschoduled)                        1116.0        1367.0       1483.0      2348.0  .     1784.0       1447.0        1433.0       1454.0        1864.0        4067.7
Tota vpine repairdb                  1116.0       1367.0        1483.0      2348.0       1784.0        1447.0       1433.0        1454.0        1864.0       4067.7
Net adjust_ents to cheduledrepay        0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
Net othrLTiinfkos                         156.2         186.0       -364.5       563.0        -228.6          0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
a. Goods and  rctcr samces.
b. IfiricsaldsbafiamDebt Rqeng8Stpm (DRS); otds data peeected by cou  peracs divisio astaf
c 'L  denotes iong4.em'



-61 -
Islamic Republic of Pakistan - Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan                                                                         Annex 3
Balance of Payments (continued)                                                                                           Page 10 of 15
Base-case (getting back on track) scenario                                                                                                   (UTSS millions at current prices)
Prehm                                              Prolections
1992         19YJ          1994         1995          1996          1997          199w          1999          zuJuu         2007
Adjustnents to scheduled debt setvice             0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0
Debt service not paid                         0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0           0.0           0.0          . 0.0          0.0           0.0            0.0
Reduction in arrears/prepayments (-)          0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0
Other capitalflows                            -1007.9         666.0        1155.5      -667.0         994.8         250.3         171.0          -87.0        -291.0        -221.0
Netshort-termcapital                       -281.0         281.0        356.0        240.0           0.0          26.0         104.0           0.0           0.0            0.0
Net capital flows n.e.i.d                     0.1         175.0         -50.0      -109.0         -16.9         -80.0         -83.0         -87.0          -91.0        -121.0
Errors and omissions                       -727.0         210.0        849.5       -798.0        1011.7         304.3         150.0           0.0        -200.0         -100.0
Change innet international reserves            -130.0         589.0       -1585.0      -247.0         450.0         640.0        -235.3        -465.7         -488.0       -1289.9
(- indicates increase in assets)
Memorandumn items
Total gross reserves, ofwhich               1719.0        1161.0       3100.5       3468.3        2742.0        1963.6        2424.8        3250.5        4163.0         8604.3
Total reserves minus gold               1038.0        469.0        2309.0       2741.0        2053.0        1237.0        1671.3        2478.9        3377.6        7744.6
Gold (atyear-endLondonprice)             681.0        692.0         792.0        721.0         689.0         726.7         753.6         771.5         785.4          859.7
Total grossreserves (inmonths'imports G        1.6           1.0           2.9         2.8           1.9           1.4           1.7           2.2           2.7            3.2
Exchange rates
Annual average (LCU/IJS$)e                     24.8          25.9          30.2         30.9          33.6          39.0          44.0          49.0          51.5          68.3
Atendyear(LCU/US$)                             25.1          27.2          30.6         31.0         35.1          40.5           46.5          50.2          52.7          69.5
Index real average exch. rate (FY8I =100)        ..            ..          92.7        94.0          94.0          88.7          85.3           81.8          81.0          81.0
Current Account Balance as % GDP                 -1.8          -6.4          -3.1        -3.5          -6.5          -6.0           -4.9         -4.6           -3.9          -2.2
d. 'n.e.i." denotes fnotelsewhereincluded.'
e. "G & S" denotes "goods and services.'
f "LCU" denotes "local currency units."
g. The index of the real exchange rate reflects US$/LCU, so an increase is an appreciation at the real exchange rate.



- 62-
Annex 3
Islamic Republic of Pakistan - Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan                                                               Page 1 1 of 15
External Debt Stocks and Flows
Base-case (getting back on track) scenario                                                                            (US$ millions at current prices)
Prelim                                         Prolections
199Z        199.         1994        1YY5         1Y96         1997         199w         1999         ZUIu          2UU7
A. Gross disbursements
Public & publicly guaranteed           2061.0       2628.0       3124.0      2687.0       3166.8      3065.3        3372.9       3546.2       3743.0       4747.3
Official multilateral creditors, of wh  1225.0  1272.0       1392.0     1365.0        1374.0      1367.0       1594.6        1751.3       1719.0       2163.5
IDA                             217.0        224.0        273.0      310.0        237.0        299.0        306.6         337.6        260.7        306.0
IBRD                            449.0        313.0        267.0      381.0        284.0        346.0        502.0         469.4        369.5        415.3
Official bilateral creditors       726.0        838.0       1030.0      1021.0       1390.0       1092.5        957.5        901.0        880.1         757.0
Private creditors, of which        110.0        518.0        702.0       301.0        402.8        605.8        820.8        894.0       1143.9        1826.8
Bonds                            0.0          0.0          0.0       150.0          0.0       450.0        250.0         350.0        563.0       1125.0
Private creditors nonguaranteed         43.0          44.0        94.0       583.0        288.0        342.0        306.6        260.1        263.1         300.0
Total LT loan disbursements            2104.0       2672.0      3218.0      3270.0       3454.8       3407.3       3679.5       3806.3       4006.1        5047.3
Net ST" credit                         .281.0       281.0        356.0       240.0          0.0         26.0        104.0          0.0          0.0           0.0
Drawings from lMF                       321.0       263.0        378.0       215.0        309.0        152.0        435.0        544.0        653.0           0.0
Total disbursements (LT+ST+IMF)        2144.0       3216.0      3952.0      3725.0       3763.8       3585.3       4218.5       4350.3       4659.1        5047.3
B. Amortizations
Public &;publicly guaranteed           1040.0       1143.0       1358.0      2150.0       1765.0      1447.0        1433.0       1454.0       1830.6       3765.5
Official multilateral creditors, of wh  284.0    343.0        519.0      636.0        578.0        552.0        565.0        607.0         748.0       1174.6
IDA                              22.0         25.0         28.0       33.0         36.0         41.0         44.0          53.0         62.0        126.0
IBRD                            119.0        141.0        167.0      202.0        224.0        219.0        209.0         221.0        237.0        386.7
Official bilateral creditors       566.0        601.0        700.0       842.0        762.0        744.0        729.0        710.0        733.0         996.9
Private creditors, of which        190.0        199.0        139.0       672.0        425.0        151.0        139.0        137.0        349.6        1594.0
Bonds                            0.0          0.0          0.0        0.0           0.0         0.0           0.0          0.0        150.0        725.0
Private creditors nonguaranteed         41.0          38.0        46.0        23.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         33.3         302.2
Total LT loan amortization             1081.0       1181.0       1404.0     2173.0       1765.0       1447.0       1433.0       1454.0        1864.0       4067.7
Repayments to ME                        35.0         186.0        79.0       113.0        273.0        328.0        236.0        202.0        242.3         185.0
Total amortization (LT+IMF)            1116.0       1367.0       1483.0     2286.0       2038.0       1775.0       1669.0       1656.0       2106.3        4252.7
C. Net disbursements
Public &publicly guaranteed            1021.0       1485.0       1766.0      537.0        1401.8       1618.3       1939.9       2092.2       1912.3        981.7
Official multilateral creditors, of wh  941.0    929.0        873.0      729.0        796.0        815.0       1029.6        1144.3        971.0        988.8
IDA                             195.0        199.0        245.0      277.0        201.0        258.0        262.6         284.6        198.7        180.0
IBRD                            330.0        172.0        100.0      179.0         60.0        127.0        293.0         248.4        132.5         28.6
Official bilateral creditors       160.0        237.0        330.0       179.0        628.0        348.5        228.5        191.0        147.1        -239.9
Private creditors, of which         -80.0       319.0        563.0      -371.0        -22.2        454.8        681.8        757.0        794.3         232.8
Bonds                            0.0          0.0          0.0       150.0          0.0       450.0        250.0         350.0        413.0        400.0
(coriiinueui)
a. Historical data fro.m Debt Reporting System (DRS); other data projected by country operations division staff.
b. 'LT' denotes 'long-terrn,' 'ST' denotes 'short-term."



-63 -
Annex 3
Islamic Republic of Pakistan - Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan                                                             Page 12 of 15
External Debt Stocks and Flows (continued)
Base-case (getting back on track) scenano                                                                                  (U1S$ nilliens at current prices)
Esibnate'                                    Projection'
1995         WM9          1994        19S           lYYOb        1997          1219Y         199Y9        ZUU           7Z1U7
Private creditors nnguaanteed              2.0          6.0          48.0       560.0        288.0         342.0         306.6        260.1         229.8          -2.2
Total LT& loannetdisbursements          1023.0       1491.0        1814.0      1097.0       1689.8        1960.3       2246.5        2352.3        2142.1         979.5
Net S1a credit                          -281.0        281.0         356.0       240.0          0.0          26.0         104.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Net credit from lBF                      286.0         77.0         299.0       102.0         36.0        -176.0         199.0        342.0         410.7        -185.0
Totalnet disbursements (LT+ST+IW)       1028.0       1849.0        2469.0      1439.0       1725.8        1810.3        2549.5       2694.3        2552.8         794.5
D. Intrest and chages
Public &publiclyguaranteed                585.0        646.0        723.0       825.0        1002.5         996.5       1062.1        1178.5        1279.4       1921.6
Official multilateral creditors, of wh  306.0     355.0         400.0       449.0        517.0         498.5         525.0        575.3         620.8         862.3
IDA                               17.0         18.0          20.0        22.0         25.0          25.1          28.0         33.5          34.4          44.1
IBRD                             157.0         182.0        192.0       209.0        213.0         193.5         217.9        248.5         265.3         234.3
Officia bilateral creditors          234.0        248.0        273.0       293.0         363.0         367.6        375.0         385.0        400.2         435.7
Prvate creditors, of which            45.0         43.0         50.0         83.0        122.5         130.4        162.2         218.3         258.5        623.6
Bonds                             0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0         17.0          39.7          69.3         96.6         104.9         325.8
Private creditors nonguaranteed            8.0           7.0          7.0       120.0         76.4         132.7         122.4        120.4         114.6         190.4
Total interest on LTloans                593.0         653.0        730.0       945.0        1078.9       1129.2        1184.6       1298.9        1394.0        2112.0
Interest on ST credit(incl. FCDs int.)   337.0         542.0        635.0       579.0        492.1         555.4         585.4        647.9         669.9         580.9
bterest on IMF drawings                  216.0          44.0         41.0        50.0         48.0          46.6          45.2         37.7          29.6           1.3
Total interest (LT+ST+wll)              1146.0        1239.0       1406.0      1574.0        1619.0       1731.2        1815.2       1984.5        2093.6        2694.2
E. Extemnal debt (DOD)c
Public & publicly guaranteed            18118.0      20050.0       22654.0     25298.0      26267.8       27446.1      29360.0       31454.2       33461.6      43369.9
Officialmultilateral creditors, of wh  8483.0     9678.0      11051.0     13031.0       13222.0      13775.0       14794.6      15948.8       17017.8       23546.9
IDA                             2416.0        2585.0       2892.0      3340.0        3347.0       3523.0        3785.6       4070.2        4268.9        5565.0
IBRD                            2350.0        2558.0       2797.0      3323.0        2991.0       2939.0        3232.0       3480.4        3612.9        3102.8
Official bilateal creditors         9046.0       9466.0       10098.0     11133.0      11728.0       12060.5      12276.0       12456.0       12595.1       11709.6
Prvate creditors, of which           589.0        906.0        1505.0      1134.0       1317.8        1610.6       2289.4        3049.4        3848.7        8113.4
Bonds                             0.0           0.0          0.0       150.0         150.0        600.0         850.0       1200.0        1613.0        4426.0
Private creditorsnonguranted             116.0         133.0        116.0      1418.0        1552.0       1576.0        1576.6       1557.7        1574.5        2529.6
TotatLT DOD                            18234.0       20183.0      22770.0     26716.0       27819.8      29022.1       30936.6      33011.9       35036.0       45899.4
ST debt                                  855.0         927.0       1235.0      1433.0       1466.0        1286.0        1390.0       1390.0        1390.0        1390.0
Use of DF credit                        1005.0        1072.0       1353.0      1455.0        1539.0       1320.0        1519.0       1824.0        2234.7         108.3
Total DOD (LT+ST+lMF), of which:       20094.0       22182.0      25358.0     29604.0       30824.8      31628.1       33845.6      36225.9       38660.7       47397.7
Principal arrears                      0.1           0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Interest arrears                       0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
(contmnued)
a Historical data from Debt Reporting System (DRS); other dat8 projected by country operations division staff.
b. "LT" denotes 'long-tenri," ST" denotes "short-tenn."
c. 'DOD' denotes "debt outsanding and disbursed"



- 64-
Annex 3
Islamic Republic of Pakistan - Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan                                                                       Page 13 of 15
- External Debt Stocks and Flows (continued)
Base-case (getting back on track) scenano                                                                                           (US$ millions at current prices)
Prelimn                                             Projection
19y2          199h           1994        1995           1996           1997          199w           1999                         ZUo7
F. Debt and debt burden indicators
(based on data in parts A-B)
Total debt service (US$ millions)            2262.0        2606.0         2889.0       3860.0        3657.0         3506.2        3484.2         3640.5         4199.8         6946.9
Interest(LT+ST+IMF)b                     1146.0        1239.0         1406.0       1574.0        1619.0         1731.2        1815.2         1984.5        2093.6          2694.2
Prncipal (LT+ IM)                        1116.0        1367.0         1483.0       2286,0        2038.0         1775.0        1669.0         1656.0         2106.3         4252.7
Total DOD0 and TDS4
DOD/exports(XGS')ratio                    204.8         222.4          255.9        247.5         258.3          277.8         275.5          268.3          255.6          163.3
DOD / GDP ratio                            41.1          42.8           48.9         48.9          47.7           49.3          51.0           52.5           52.0           35.7
TDS/exports(XGS)ratio                      23.1          26.1           29.1         32.3          30.6           30.8          28.4           27.0           27.8           23.9
TDS / exports (XGS) ratio
excl. privt. non-guar. &FCDs             20.8           23.9          26.4         28.2          26.5           25.5           23.3          22.0           23.0           20.6
IBRD exposure indicators:
IBRDDSf/publicloanDS                      14.7          16.0           16.3        13.1           14.1           14.6          15.4           16.3          14.9           10.6
Preferred creditor DS /public DS          44.8          46.0           47.2        39,8           45.8           50.6          49.4           49.5          48.5           37.9
IBRDIDS/exports(XGS)                       2.8           3.2            3.6          3.4           3.7            3.6           3.5            3.5           3.3            2.1
Country share in 3RDportfolio            2.4%           2.5%          2.6%         2.7%           2.7%          2.8%           2.9%           3.1%          3.2%           2.9%
G. Debt and debt burden indicators
(based onpost-DDSR data for countries with
projected debt worksouts; based on adjusted data
from Asnex C7)
Memorandum items
Factor payments / exports (XGS) ratios
Interest payments / exports               10.0          10.7           12.0         9.8           13.7           11.1          10.7           10.6          10.0            7.6
Total factorpaymenta/exports              13.6          15.7           17.1         15.7          17.7           20.4          20.0           19.8           18.9          14.9
a. Historical data from Debt Reporting System (DRS); other data projected by country operations division staff.
b. 'LT" denotes "long-term," "ST" denotes 'short-term."
c. "DOD" denotes 'debt outsanding and disbursed"
d. "TDS" denotes 'total debt service."
c. "XGS" denotes "exports of goods and services," which comprises exports of goods, nonfactor services, factor receipts, and workers'remittances
f 'DS' denotes "debt service."



-65 -
Islamic Republic of Pakistan - Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan                                                                             Annex 3
Public Finance                                                                                                           Page 14 of 15
Base-case (getting back on track) scenario                                                                                              (at current prices and exchange rates)
Predim                              Proiections
1992         lYY3          1994        1995          19Y6          1997          lY9Y         1999 2YY             20007
Gov =ment budget (billions LCUs) /a
Total current revenues                     216.6         239.5         270.0       321.6        368.6         382.7         458.6         552.6         643.4        1588.0
Direct taxes                             29.5          37.8          44.4        62.7         78.2          51.5          70.0         110.0         1434          411.2
Indirect taxes                          134.8         140.6         164.1       196.9        227.5         268.0         303.0         344.6         388.9         923.0
On donestic goods and services        73.0          77.4          99.0       119.3         138.6        182.7         213.2         236.5         283.4         689.9
Onintenationaltrade                   61.8          63.2          65.1        77.7          88.9         85.3          89.8         108.1         105.5         233.1
Nontaxreceipts                           52.3         61.1          61.6        62.0          63.0          63.1          85.6          97.9         111.2         253.8
(of which current grants)
Total Current Expenditures                 234.4        272.5         292.6       349.6         423.1         451.8         514.2         591.4         658.4        1481.6
Intereston extemaldebt                   13.3          14.7          16.0        21.2          30.5         36.0          42.5          50.6          56.1         109.6
Interest on dornestic debt               46.5          60,9          70.1        73.0          97.5        107.3          141.6        159.2         172.5         279.7
Budgetary cost of bankrestructuring     0.0           0.0           0.0         0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           8.7           8.8           7.8
Transfers toprivate sector                3.5           4.0           3.5         9.7           7.3           0.6          0.7           0.8           0.9           1.3
Transferstoother NFPSb                    5.0           1.7           3.7         8.9          7.1           17.5         26.0          28.4          30.6          54.5
Subsidies                                10.1           5.9           4.8         4.8           8.0          5.6           7.3           7.4           8.4          18.2
Consumption                              155.9         185.3        194.5        231.9        272.8         284.7         296.1         345.0         389.8        1018.4
Budgetary Savings                          -17.8        -32.9         -22.6        -28.0        -54.5         -69.0         -55.6         -38.8         -14.9         106.4
Share of EBRD portfolio W. Guarantees        -17.8        -32.9         -22.5       -28.0         -54.5         -69.0         -55.6         -38.8         -14.9
Capital Revenues                            14.3           1.6          2.0          5.6          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
Total Capital Expenditures                  86.6         76.2          71.7         83.2         94.2          85.2          89.8         112.0         139.1         442.9
Capital transfers                        0.0           0.0           0.0         1.0           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Budgetatyfixedinvestrment                86.6         76.2          71.7        82.3          94.2          85.2          89.8        112.0         139.0         442.9
Overall balance (- deficit)                -90.0        -107.5        -92.2       -105.6       -148.7        -154.2        -145.5        -150.8        -154.0        -336.5
Memorandum itemns
Extra budgetary cost of severence paynent progarn
in banking sector                         0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0         14.00          0.00           0.0           0.0
(continued)
a. 'LCU' denotes 'local currency unit.'
b. "NFPS' denotes "nonfinancial public sector.,



- 66 -
Islamic Republic of Pakistan - Proposed Banking Sector Adjustment Loan                                                                    Annex 3
Public Finance (continued)                                                                                             Page 15 of 15
Base-case (getting back on track) scenario                                                                                            (at current prices and exchange rntes)
Prelim                             Proiections
1992         1993          1994        1995        1W99           1997         199wS         199          2913          2W
Shares of GDP (%)
Currentrevenues                             17.9         17.9          17.3        17.2         17.0         15.3          15.7          16.4         16.8          17.5
Currentexpenditures, o.w.:                  19.3         20.3          18.7        18.7         19.5         18.0          17.6          17.5         17.2          16.3
Budgetarycostofbankdngsectorref         0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0           0.3          0.2           0.1
Budgetatysavings                            -1.5         -2.5         -1.4         -1.5         -2.5         -2.8          -1.9         -1.1          -0.4           1.2
Capitalrevenues                             1.2          0.1           0.1         0.3          0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Capital expenditures                        7.1          5.7           4.6         4.5          4.3           3.4           3.1          3.3           3.6           4.9
Overall Balance (- = deficit)              -7.4          -8.0         -5.9        -5.7         -6.9          -6.2          -5.0         -4.5          -4.0          -3.7
Extra budgetary cost of staff reduction
in baning sector                           0.0           0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0           0.0           0.3          0.3           0.0           0.0
Govennment Debt (DOD /c at the end of the year, in (billions LCUs, unless noted))
Extemaldebt                               438.5         519.9         631.7      705.2         893.0        1072.2       1296.4        1476.6       1629.9        2765.9
Extemal debt (inUS$ miillions)           17451.0      19143.0       20638.0     21953.0      25441.0       26470.5      27880.6       29385.8      30953.9       39780.5
Debtto monetarysysten                      294.9        355.0         376.0       468.4        458.0        475.1         524.0         567.0        612.9        1209.7
Other domestic debt                       230.2         253.0        326.1        301.9        460.5        553.0         595.1         634.1        664.7        1285.3
Total govemment debt                       963.6       1127.9        1333.8      1475.5       1811.5       2100.3        2415.5        2677.7       2907.5        5260.9
Total government debt as percent of GDP     79.5         84.1          85.2       79.1          83.4         83.9          82.7          79.3         75.9          58.0
Tax burden indicators (%/6)
Direct taxes / GDP                           2.4          2.8           2.8         3.4          3.6          2.1           2.4           3.3          3.7           4.5
IndirecttaxesondoinesticG&S4/GDP             6.0          5.8          6.3          6.4          6.4          7.3           7.3           7.0          7.4           7.6
IndirecttaxesondomesticG&S/prrvatec          8.6          8.0           8.8         8.8          8.7          9.4           9.4           9.2          9.9          10.9
Taxes on international trade/merchandise    27.7         24.3         24.8         24.4         22.0         19.2          18.0          18.5         16.3          15.3
c. 'DOD' denotes "debt outstanding and disbursed."
b. 'G&S" denotes 'goods and services."



-67 -
Schedule C
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
PROPOSED BANKING SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1.    Time taken to prepare:                One year
2.    Project prepared by:                   Government and central bank
with Bank assistance
3.    Pre-appraisal mission:                November 1996
4.    Appraisal mission:                     May 1997
5.    Negotiations:                          September 1997
6.    Planned Board Presentation:            December 9, 1997
7.    Planned effectiveness:                 December 19, 1997
8.    Expected project completion:          March 31, 1998
9.    Relevant SAR:                         None



Schedule D
-68 -                                Page I of 4
Status of Bank Group Operations in Pakistan
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of September 30, 1997)
Difference
between
expected
Original amount in US$                  and actual
Project      Loan or Fiscal                                                 millions                        disbursemenh;
ID        Credit No. Year  Borrower            Purpose             IBRD      IDA  Cancell. Undisbursed  Orig   Frm Rv'd
Number of Closed
Loans/Credits:    167
Active Loans
PK-PE-10501    C29010  1997 GOP            PVT SECTOR GROUND WTR                 56.00                50.53    53.55    53.55
PK-PE-36015    C29210  1997 GOP            IMPR FIN REP & AUDIT                  28.80                26.09    27.22
PK-PE-10478    C28290  1996 GOP            NWFPCOMMUNITYINFRA                    21.50                16.24    18.88
PK-PE-10482    C27800  1996 GOP            BAL COMMUN IRRIGAGR                   26.70                23.37    24.71
PK-PE-34101    L39500  1996 GOP            TELECOM REG & PRIVAT    35.00                              34.80    34.80
PK-PE-37827    C28830  1996 GOP            NORTHERN HEALTH                       26.70                25.18    26.70
PK-PE-39281    L39650  1996 GOP            GHAZI BAROTHA HYDRO   350.00                              282.67   282.67
PK-PE-10450    L38120  1995 GOP            PVT SEC EGY DEV II          250.00                         78.89    78.89
PK-PE-10470    L38080  1995 GOP            FIN SEC DEEPEN &INTE        214.53                        214.07   215.54   214.07
PK-PE-10481    C27470  1995 GOP            FOREST SECTOR DEVELO                  24.87                17.67    20.45
PK-PE-10486    C26870  1995 GOP            NWFPPRIMARYEDUCATI                   150.00               124.87   131.78
PK-PE-10492    C26880  1995 GOP            POPULATION WELFARE P                  65.10                53.96    57.12
PK-PE-10452    C25580  1994 GOP            SINDH SPECIAL DEVELO                  46.80                33.68    34.11    34.12
PK-PE-10453    C25840  1994 GOP            BALUCHISTAN NATURAL                   14.70                10.46    10.24
PK-PE-10456    C25930  1994 GOP            SOCIAL ACTION PROGRA                 200.00                 1.63   -10.95
PK-PE-10458    L37640  1994 GOP            POWER SECT. DEV. PRO        230.00                        125.88   125.88
PK-PE-10325    C19871   1993 GOP           KARACHI WATER & SANI                  91.90                62.77    96.51    42.23
PK-PE-10405    C24100  1993 GOP            EAST.SADIQIA SO PHAS                  54.20                37.26    36.55
PK-PE-10414    C24640  1993 GOP            FAMILY HEALTH II                      48.00                36.24    36.01
PK-PE-10415    C24680  1993 GOP            1992 FLOOD DAMAGE RE                 100.00     5.22       15.63    16.89    16.85
PK-PE-10417    C24820  1993 GOP            BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY                  106.00                52.66    51.55
PK-PE-10421    C25120  1993 GOP            NORTHPAKISTANRESOU                    28.80                18.42    18.65
PK-PE-10394    C23540  1992 GOP            MIDDLE SCHOOLING                     115.00                88.11    92.07
PK-PE-10399    C23830  1992 GOP            ENV. PROT. & RES. CO                  29.20     5.46       13.65    18.53
PK-PE-10401    L35000  1992 GOP            DOMESTIC ENERGY RES    180.00                   18.62      24.19    42.81    24.23
PK-PE-10360    L32520  1991 GOPISNGPL CORP. RESTRUCT. & SY             130.00                          8.00     8.00    32.10
PK-PE-10360    L32521   1991 GOP/SNGPL CORP. RESTRUCT. & SY             60.00                         24.11    94.11     32.10
PK-PE-10366    C22280  1991 GOP            RURAL WATER                          136.70    28.36       60.27    90.44    61.31
PK-PE-10367    L33180  1991 GOP            MICRO-ENTERPRISES            26.00                          6.73     6.73
PK-PE-10371    C22400  1991 GOP            FAMILY HEALTH                         45.00                29.66    30.16
PK-PE-10375    L33350  1991 GOP            KARACHI PORT MODERN    91.40                               34.16    34.16
PK-PE-10377    C22570  1991 GOP            SCARP TRANS II                        20.00      6.08       3.65      8.93     8.86
PK-PE-10346    C21020  1990 GOP            SINDPRIMARYEDUCA.                    112.50                33.11    25.45
PK-PE-10349    C21540  1990 GOP            AGRIC. RES. II                        57.30      5.16      22.78    22.97    18.01
PK-PE-10352    L32410  1990 GOP            TRANSPORTSECTOR             184.00             22.66       16.87    39.53    39.55



-69 -
Schedule D
Page 2 of 4
Difference
between
expected
Original amount in US$                 and actual
Project      Loan or Fiscal                                                millions                       disbursements5
ID        Credit No. Year  Borrower            Purpose            IBRD      IDA  Cancell. Undisbursed  Orig   Frm Rv'd
PK-PE-10305    C18950  1988 GOP           PUNJAB URBAN DEVELOP                  90.00                10.55     8.30
PK-PE-10313    L29820  1988 GOPlNDFC  PRIVATE SECTOR ENERG    150.00                                33.26    33.26
PK-PE-10209    C15320  1985 GOP           LEFT BANK OUTFALL DR                 150.00                75.08    21.02
TOTAL                                                              1900.93  1845.77    91.56    1827.15  1964.22   576.98
Active Loans             Closed Loans            Total
Total disbursed (lBRD and IDA)       1886.58                  6557.70           8444.28
Of which repaid                      65.13                  2011.67           2076.80
Total now held by IBRD and IDA       3590.00                  4451.04           8041.04
Amount sold                             0.00                    45.09             45.09
Of which repaid                       0.00                    45.09             45.09
Total undisbursed                    1827.15                    28.63           1855.78
a. Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data are updated at the end of the first week of the month.



- 70-
Schedule D
Page 3 of 4
Pakistan - Statement of IFC Investments
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of September 30, 1997
(In US$ Millions)
Committed                             Disbursed
IFC                                   IFC
FYApproval         Company                     Loan   Equity   Quasi   Parlic       Loan   Equity     Quasi  Paric
1965/80/82187/91/94/9 Packages                22.73     3.46     0.00     8.75      22.73     3.46      0.00    8.75
1983/84/94        PPL                          15.88    1.56     0.00    15.10      15.31     1.56      0.00   14.55
1984/94           NDLC                         9.14     1.25     0.00     2.48       9.14     1.25      0.00   2.48
1985/92           Mari Gas                     12.89    0.00     0.00     0.00      12.89     0.00      0.00    0.00
1987              Millat Tractors              0.67     0.00     0.00     0.00       0.67     0.00      0.00    0.00
1988              Hala Spinning                3.58     0.00     0.00     0.00       3.58     0.00     0.00    0.00
1990              Pak Suzuki Motor             2.65     0.00     0.00     0.00       2.65     0.00     0.00    0.00
1990              Suez-MLF-Hoechst             0.77     0.00     0.00     0.77       0.77     0.00     0.00    0.77
1990/91/96        FIIB                         8.50     1.50     0.00     0.00       3.08     1.50     0.00    0.00
1991              EIL                          0.00     0.24     0.00     0.00       0.00     0.24      0.00    0.00
1991              EIM, the Fund                0.00     0.76     0.00    0.00        0.00     0.76     0.00    0.00
1991              Prudenfial                   0.00     0.40     0.00     0.00       0.00     0.40     0.00    0.00
1991/94/95        PILCO                        9.82     1.04     0.00     1.65       9.82     1.04     0.00    1.65
1991/95           IHFL                         4.62     0.87     0.00     0.00       4.62     0.87     0.00    0.00
1991/95/97        Engro Chemical              29.98     6.05     0.00    11.86      29.98     6.05     0.00   11.86
1992              RUPAFIL                      7.91     0.00    0.31      0.00       7.91     0.00     0.31    0.00
1992/96           JSCL                         0.00     1.11     0.00    0.00        0.00     1.11     0.00    0.00
1993              CDCPL                        0.00     0.16     0.00     0.00       0.00     0.16     0.00    0.00
1993              Fauji Cement                24.00     5.00    0.00    20.00       24.00     5.00     0.00   20.00
1993              Muslim Comm Bank             5.63     0.00    0.00     0.00        5.63     0.00     0.00    0.00
1993              Pakistan Service            10.00     3.00    0.00     0.00       10.00     3.00     0.00    0.00
1993196           Sarah Textiles               6.00     0.20     1.48    0.00        6.00     0.20      1.48    0.00
1993/97           Crescent Greenwd            12.84     5.10    0.00     7.64       12.84     5.10     0.00    7.64
1994              Atlas Lease                  7.81     0.36    0.00      1.65       7.81    0.36      0.00    1.65
1994              BRR Modaraba                 0.00     0.00    10.00    0.00        0.00    0.00     10.00    0.00
1994              Mohib                        0.00     2.24    0.00     0.00        0.00     1.18     0.00    0.00
1994              Orix Finance                 0.00     0.58    0.00     0.00        0.00    0.58      0.00    0.00
1994              Orix Leasing                 9.14     1.25    0.00     2.48        9.14     1.25     0.00    2.48
1994              PACRA                        0.00     0.17    0.00     0.00        0.00    0.10      0.00    0.00
1994              Regent Knitwear             13.11     0.00    0.00     4.80        7.64     0.00     0.00    2.80
1994              PI&CL                        4.06     0.00    0.00     0.00       4.06     0.00      0.00    0.00
1994/95/96        D.G. Khan                   25.00     5.49    0.00    40.00       25.00     5.49     0.00   40.00
1994/95/97        Maple Leaf                  30.00     5.72    0.00    35.00       30.00    5.72      0.00   35.00
1994/96           First Leasing                3.25     1.69    0.00     0.00        3.25     1.69     0.00    0.00
1995              AES Lal Pir                 40.00     9.50     0.00    0.00       24.68     5.86     0.00    0.00
1995              ABAMCO                       0.00     0.29     0.00     0.00       0.00     0.29     0.00    0.00
1995              Bank of Khyber              10.00     0.00     0.00    0.00        2.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
1995              BSJS Fund                    0.00     0.50     0.00     0.00       0.00     0.50     0.00    0.00
1995              BRR Second                   0.00     0.00     5.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      5.00    0.00
1995              First Crescent               0.00     0.00     5.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      5.00    0.00



-71 -
Schedule D
Page 4 of 4
Committed                            Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FYYApproval       Company                     Loan   Equity   Quasi   Paric        Loan   Equity     Quasi  Partic
1995              First UDL                    0.00    0.00    10.00     0.00       0.00    0.00     10.00   0.00
1995              Kohinoor                    25.00    6.30     0.00    36.60      25.00    6.30      0.00  36.60
1995              Pakistan Unit Tr             0.00    1.48    0.00      0:00       0.00     1.48     0.00   0.00
1995              Rupafab                     11.00    1.20    0.00      0.00      11.00    0.00      0.00   0.00
1996              Atlas Inv Bank               8.50    0.00     0.00     0.00       3.50    0.00      0.00   0.00
1996              AES Pak Gen                 20.00    9.50     0.00    50.00      11.64    4.44      0.00  29.09
1996              Beaconhouse                  7.00    0.00     0.00     3.00       0.93    0.00      0.00   0.40
1996              Crescent Chem               15.00    5.00    0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00      0.00   0.00
1996              Crescent EBank              16.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      12.00    0.00      0.00   0.00
1996              Engro Paktank               12.00    0.00     0.00     5.00       6.00    0.00      0.00   2.50
1996              Gul Ahmed                   27.00    4.10     0.00    35.00      27.00    4.10      0.00  35.00
1996              Uch Power                   40.00    0.00     0.00    75.00      23.48    0.00      0.00  44.02
Total Portfolio:          511.48    87.07    31.79   356.78    415.75    71.04     31.79 297.24
Approvals Pending Commitmnent
Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997              ASKARI CL                   17.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1994              D.G. KHAN                    0.00    0.00    0.00    21.60
1994              FAUJI INCREASE               0.00    0.00     0.00    10.00
1997              FAYSAL CL                   17.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1995              FIRST UNDRWRITING            0.00    0.98     0.00     0.00
1995              KARACHI II                   0.00    0.00     0.00    22.00
1995              MAPLE LEAF INCR              0.00    0.00    0.00    25.00
1997              PEPCEM                      20.00    3.00     2.00    50.00
1997              PEPCEM-BLINC                 0.00    0.00     0.00     2.50
1997              PRIME BANK CL                8.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1997              SYSTEMS LTD                  0.00    0.04    2.50      0.00
1997              UNION BANK CL                8.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    70.00    4.02   4.50   131.10



-72-                                                 ~~~~~~~Schedule E
Pakistan at a glance                                                           ~~~~~Page 1 of 2
~~~~Pakistan ataila nce   De8lpen1daon7
Po~~~uIvuld-1996 (millions)                  133.5:       1264        3,229~.................
..........er..  n.....
Mostrecnt  stimtelatst                                                         . .......la.l. s.nce  .989..cLpftaeenrollmen
Aovell ha donunt.inegr         ofppgtif)3
...                        .5.26.2.
Child  nalnutritior (~~~~~~~~O(CMdIwI urn br5)er 40maf
..le.9....10                                                                         -1ta                      LwnIrcolmenou
Female    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                      .         42..... ....87-...
Gros  doetao inv asmetGP.                                 *~        . 1.3.18..1..
Gross .... d ...t. .eipGD                                  .        ....14.                 1..
Gros ntioalsavngsG. .... .1.Acces15.8afewate
lnersta~ens/DP.09                                                   .0          2.0.Sains                                                   nvsten
Chtid'btaepo. 2.6                                                      48          2.5    2. ....
Present value of de %,/x po           :.-        ...... ...69                                                          netens
M                                                  ...........76.......... .....1905..1....190746
:00500gahnuIgrwUi.:  .
GNPpercapita                    4.6         1~~~~~~~~~.3  : 2.        0.3..3.                             Low-Incorme  r
Expotlsofgoodsandse*vloes  8.4  ~ ~~   48:         2.0         6.9
STRUCTURE.......of ...the . ECONOMY..                                      ....                    ...
'ECNO ICPAIO.i~WLOG~T.Ft'T ND::::195              108            10          10
(% of GDP)                                                                                        Growth rates of output and Investment -R(.......
Agriculture                                      32~~......... ...: . 0 ..  28.6..25.9.25.8..0
Industry                                     23~~~~~~~~~  . 4.   22...............................5a 24.5  24.5.......  ...
Manufact...n                                          16.7..      1    .9 . 17.1           16.9mic    o
Services                                     44~~~~~~~ ~~.5.  .........  4.0   4 .6   4.7. .....
(average .nulrwlGo                                                                                                 ratenes of epor D ndomyot (%
Agriculture        4.5         4.1          6.6         5.3       ~~~         ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Industry                                       7.1         6.3          4.8         3.6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Manufacturing                                8~~ ~ ~~~~.0.  ............ 6..6.    44..       20.
Services                                           7.1        5.1.............4....8      .7...
Gross domestic.. i..... .....                                                                    .... :::    aignvestment7. 4525 56 -0
Note:es 1996   atanrepreiiar simts
The diamnds.showfour.ke  iniatr in the...... conr ....      c   oprd  ihisicm gopaeae  f aaaemsig,tedaodwl
be i c m l t ......  .............



Schedule E
-73 -                                                Page 2 of 2
Pakistan
PRFCES and GOVERNMENT FlNINCE
1975    1985      1996    1996
LkHneMcprices                                                                 Inflaton (%)
(% change)                                                                   15
Consumer pices                            20.9      5.6      13.0    10.9
Implicit GP deffat                        24.0      4.6      14.3    10.9    1D.
Govenumentflnance
(% of GCY7                                                                    0      i                  
Current eenue                               ..    16.9       17.2    17.2           91   92   93   94   95   9f
Cuned budget balance                        ..     -0.8      -1.5    -2.0             -     GDP dt. -     CP
Overal surplus/deficit                      ..   -7.8        -5.7    -6.3
TRADE
1975    1986      1996    1996
(ndDh>ms US$)                             1975    198S      1995    1996      Expoit and import levels (mill. US$)
To  -exports (fob)                          ..  2,457       8,074    8,652    15,0
Cotton                                     ..    279         62     505
RKe                                        ..    222        454     504
Mnnutectures                               ..   1,922    11204   13,024    10,0nI
Total imports (el)                                6,531    11,050   12,996
Food                                        .       ..    1,722    2,010     500i
Ful and energy                                   1,398    1,587    1,979
capita  goods                               .       ..    3,083    3,345         __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
Extpor price inldex (1907=100)                                                      90.  .  .w   91  92  93  S4  ss  go
Import price index (1987=100)               ..xp.r..          ..                          *   ots    Imports
Teom oftade (1987z100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYM3NTS
1975    1986      1995    1996
(nVos USS)                                                                    Current account balance to GDP rato (%)
EXPO  of goods and services              1,231    3,247     9,943   10,317    e
Imports of goods and senmes              2,539    7,113    13,023   15,174
Resource balance                         -1,309   -3,867    -3,080   -4,857
Net income                                 -95    -506    -1,729   -1,943
Net curren transfers                       335    3,090     2,709    2,605    -4
Cwrend account balance,
before doiial cpial transfers          -1,069   -1,282    -2,100   -4,195    4       
Financing ems (net)                        946     235     2,449   3,781
Changes in net reserves                    124    1,048      349      414    4
Memo::
Reserves inuding gold (ni USS)             563    1,429     3,039    2,488
Conversion rate (1ScaJSS)                  9.9    15.2      30.8    335
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1985      1995    1996
(nVlions US$)                                                                 Compositon of tatal debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt oustandx   a  disbursed       5,753   11,835    29,412   31,916
IBRD                                     283     352     3,323    2,991                G         A
IDA                                      484    1,312    3,340    3,347               3235      3323
Totaldebtservice                           306    1,178     3,14B 3,341             F       _
IBRD                                      38      58       413      440
IDA                                        6      20        55      61
Composition of net resouce flows                                                                           c
Oflcial gpants                           185     257       312     214                                  1613
OCicial aediltos                         708     450       597    1,208
Private creditors                         19    -170       314     375                               D
Foeign direct invwedment                  25     131       440    1,106              E
Porfolio eqity                             0       0      1.090    202              10440
World Bank program
Co _nunents                               98     689       911      458     A-RD                      E-Biateia
Disbursements                             81     170       694      518     B-IDA    0 - Oer multiate    F - Prate
Principal repaymens                       20      39       235      260     C - IF                    G - Shourt4en
Net flow                                  61     131       459      258   t.......
hterest payments                          24      43       233      241
Net tansfer                               37      89       226       34
Develop_mt Economcs 1996 extemal debt and resource flom data are staff esimates (prelrwmnai.                 8115197






MAP SECTION



l



IBRD 16248R4
64                            680                           T A J I K I S T A N>
j          3.  . C~HINA
PAKISTAN
-   NATIONAL CAPITAL
o   CITIES AND TOWNS
NATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS
RAILWAYS
+    AIRPORTS                                              -d      \
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                   she/
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES               d-*         eLobd         IMBAD
~ RIVERS                                                             R  Ipindi. JAMMU and KASHUMR
-32'  I)                                                                                                         322-
K.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
AFGHANISTAN
280                                                                                                             280
ISLAMIC j( )
REPUBLIC OF '20
(  ~~~    '   o\   Cela   t0\Nowabshoh                          ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
./,c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1    deannoin an anyd
on- i                                                t
TheWodBnkGo.
any judgment onthlea
A~~~a5~~~~p  j5e~~~~~>                                 status  o~~~~~~~~f any  terit-y'
-    -                                                    7,2'
FEBRUARY 1994



