Report No. PIC3488
Project Name                   Zambia-Roads Sector Investment Program
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Transportation
Project ID                     ZMPA3236
Borrower                       Republic of Zambia
Implementing Agencies          Ministry of Communications and Transport
PO Box 50065, Lusaka. Zambia
Telephone: 260-1-251444
Fax: 260-1-251795
Ministry of Works and Supply, Roads
Department
P.O.Box 50236, Lusaka. Zambia
Telephone: 260-1-253192
Fax: 260-1-253404
Ministry of Local Government and Housing
PO Box 50027, Lusaka. Zambia
Telephone: 260-1-251942
Fax: 260-1-254733
National Roads Board
PO Box 50065, Lusaka, Zambia
Telephone: 260-1-253145
Fax: 260-1-253154
Date this PID Updated          December 31, 1996
Appraisal Date                 June 1996
Projected Board date           September 1997
1.   Country and Sector Background.   Since 1991, the Zambian government
has sustained a reform program designed to encourage movement towards a
full market economy and to significantly reduce the role of government.
Increased incentives have been provided for agricultural production and
the promotion of the private sector, which, inter alia should reduce
dependence on the mining sector for output, employment and exports.
Creation of the necessary enabling environment for both private sector
growth and greater agricultural production have been, and continue to
be, hampered by inadequate and poorly maintained economic
infrastructure, including roads.
2.   In terms of the Roads and Road Traffic Act, a number of ministries
and agencies have responsibilities in the road sector. Three ministries
presently fill the most significant roles - Ministry of Communications
and Transport (MCT) which is responsible for planning the network, the
Ministry of Works and Supply, Roads Department (RD) which is responsible
for constructing and maintaining the main and trunk roads, and the
Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH) which is responsible for
planning and overseeing the maintenance of roads which fall under urban



and rural local authorities.   None of these ministries possess the
requisite resources, staffing and tools to effectively execute their
assigned responsibilities.   A further shortcoming is that the policy and
legislative framework has not been updated in recent times. As a result
the roles of some road sector institutions are not clear, financing is
not provided for on a systematic basis and the responsibility for
managing some roads is unclear.
3.   The designated road network in Zambia is about 36,000 kilometers of
which 20% is paved.   Road expenditures have typically remained well
below the level needed to maintain the network in a stable condition in
the long term. It was estimated in 1993 that 20-40 percent of the
current requirement for maintaining nearly 9,000 kilometers of trunk and
main roads is being covered. The percentages were far less for urban
roads, of the order of 10-20 percent, and were negligible for rural
feeder roads. In addition there is a large body of roads which are not
designated so that no responsibility for maintenance is established. If
not addressed, the consequent erosion of capital tied up in Zambia+s
road network would bring about the need for wholesale replacement. Road
deterioration has increased the isolation of some rural areas and
limited their market access as well as increased costs to all road
users.  Currently it is estimated that over 50% of roads are in poor
condition and under 20% are in good condition.
4.   Sector Strategy.   The Zambian government fully recognizes the
seriousness of the problem and is addressing this past neglect in an
appropriate and innovative fashion. Progress has been made with regard
to the financing of road maintenance. A National Roads Board (NRB) with
strong private sector representation was established in October 1994 and
has been carrying out its mandate to channel monies raised through a
fuel levy and deposited in an earmarked Road Fund account into a
priority maintenance program. Financing for the roads sector however
remains a problem in that funding for maintenance is still below the
levels required and in that funding for priority rehabilitation programs
is not available on a timely or reliable basis. In this regard the NRB
complements but does not replace the need for effective structures for
the financing and management of roads. Government with the assistance
of the Bank funded Transport Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project (TETAP), has undertaken a program of studies and stakeholder
consultations to identify specific actions needed to strengthen the
institutional framework in the road sector. Out of this process has
come inter alia the proposals to strengthen NRB and to restructure
existing road authorities with a view to improved road management and to
develop a program involving community stakeholders to increase
accessibility in rural areas. In addition, stakeholders have endorsed
the objectives and broad composition of a medium term (15 year) road
sector investment program to bring the whole network under regular
maintenance and thus improve road quality.
5.   Program Objectives.   The overriding objective is to support the
economic growth and diversification through appropriate investments in
road infrastructure. Medium term goals for the sector are: to create a
sustainable system for the financing and management of roads; to address
poor accessibility; to improve the quality of the network thus reducing
vehicle operating costs. The five specific objectives for the first
-2 -



five year time slice of the program (1997-2001) which is proposed for
support by the IDA lending operation are: reform of the road sector
policy and institutional framework; strengthening of road sector
financing mechanisms; strengthening of local construction and consulting
industry; addressing the road sector rehabilitation and maintenance
backlog; and establishing a pilot program for community road
infrastructure.
6.   Program Description.   The main components of the proposed program
are: civil works which will have four subcomponents - routine and
periodic maintenance of the core network in good and fair condition;
rehabilitation (spot improvement and reconstruction) of selected trunk,
main, district and urban roads; upgrading of selected feeder roads and
improved feeder road accessibility in selected provinces; community road
infrastructure program initially in three provinces; support to local
contracting and consulting industry; and technical assistance and
training in the areas of policy support, implementation support and
institutional development. The program for the first two years has been
defined and agreed with Government, whereas the program for later years
will only be firmed up after annual review of implementation
performance.
7.   Program Cost and Financing.   The program cost is estimated as
US$640 million of which about 61% in foreign exchange.    Government will
fund a portion of the cost of the rehabilitation program. Road users
will fund the costs of maintenance through road user charge payments,
including fuel levy, channeled through the Road Fund. The balance of
the financing will come from IDA and from ongoing and new commitments of
donor funding. Known external commitments amount to be about US$0
million with the balance of funding required expected to be firmed up as
the program proceeds.
8.   Program Implementation.   The program is to be implemented over a
five year period commencing in 1997. A Program Management Committee
(PMC) with public and private sector participation has been established
to oversee the program. Day to day program coordination will be
devolved by the PMC and will be the responsibility of a management team
under the NRB. Policy and institutional improvements are to be managed
by the Ministry of Communications and Transport (MCT) which chairs the
PMC. The Roads Department (RD) will manage the implementation of the
trunk and main road rehabilitation and maintenance program. MLGH will
manage the implementation of the urban and rural district road program
and the program for feeder roads with the participation of the relevant
local authorities. NRB will channel funding for agreed maintenance
programs which will be executed by private sector contractors.
9.   Program Sustainability.   Strengthened institutions, improved
management and adequate funding for road maintenance are key factors for
sustainability. The program is expected to enhance sustainability by
addressing these factors in a coherent and effective manner. An
appropriate sector policy framework supported by strong and appropriate
institutions should improve planning, programming and implementation of
high priority road projects. Road financing will be addressed in such
a way to ensure greater regularity and predictability of financial flows
to the sector which should reduce the fiscal burden. The participatory
- 3-



nature of project preparation, the involvement of the private sector in
the management of the NRB and the Road Fund as well as in opportunities
created by the roads program augur well for a high degree of project
ownership on the part of all Zambian stakeholders.
10. Lessons Learned from Past Operations. Experience from three past
highways projects in Zambia indicate the persistence of a number of
problems hampering effective sector development, i.e.: lack of
commitment to road maintenance; weak institutions and a shortage of
qualified staff; inadequate planning and programming; and insufficient
and unpredictable budget allocations for road maintenance. These
shortcomings are already being addressed through TETAP under which
Government has agreed to a program of studies and technical assistance
to develop a sustainable system for the management and financing of
roads.
11. Poverty Reduction and Alleviation. The program will help address
poverty through reducing transport costs and increasing farm gate prices
for small scale farmers. The program component dealing with community
roads will help open up a number of parts of the country and create new
marketing opportunities as well as enhance participation. Better roads
will help alleviate poverty by improving access to health and education
facilities and improving the delivery of relief programs. In addition,
new jobs will be created through the program, especially as a result of
the labor based approach that will be used on some of the urban, feeder
and community roads.
12. Environmental Aspects. The program is Category B. An
environmental assessment has been carried out as part of the program
preparation process. Findings and recommendations have been discussed
with the Zambian government and an action plan is under development. A
mitigation plan will be put in place prior to launch of the program. It
is expected that road sector institutions will have to be given
strengthened environmental management capacity. The environmental
impact of the program is not expected to be major, although any road
realignment, traffic diversion and the quarrying of fill material will
have to be carefully managed. In the case of preparatory engineering
work being carried out under TETAP, bid documents will include clear
instructions relating to the location and operation of construction
camps, treatment of borrow pits and routing of traffic to offset any
potential environmental hazard, including road safety, arising out of
road works.
13. Program Objective Categories. The primary program objective
category is environmentally sustainable development. Secondary program
objectives are improved public sector management, creation of an
enabling framework for greater private sector participation in roads
sector development and poverty alleviation through employment creation
in labor based works.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
- 4 -



Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending January 10, 1997.
- 5 -



