Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16539-ZA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PROJECT TO SUPPORT A
ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
September 4, 1997
Transport 1
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as ot'Jul  31. 1997)
Currency Unit = Zambia Kwacha (K)
USS =K 1,00.00
SDR I = KI.767_00
K 1.000 =USS0-77
AVERAGE ANNUAL EXCHANGE RATE
Year = K per US Dollar
1994  669
1995  860
1996 = 1229
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I metric ton (tonne) =1000 kg or 2.205 pounds
I meter (m) = 3.2808 feet
I kilometer (km) = 0.6214 miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB = African Development Bank
CAP 464 = Roads and Road Traffrc Act
CAS = Country Assistance Strategy
DISS = Department of Infrastructure and Support Services
ECZ = Environment Council of Zambia
EIA = Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR = Economic Rate of Retumn
EU = European Union
FEDHAUL= Federation of Road Hauliers
GDP = Gross Domestic Product
H1vlS = Highway Management System
ICB  Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA = Intemational Development Association
IMT = Intermediate Mleans ofTransport
MCT = Mlinistry of Transport and Communication
MFED   M Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MWS = Ministr- of Works and Supply
MLGH = Ministr. of Local Govemment and Housing
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
NCC = National Council for Construction
NGO = Non-Govemmental Organization
NRB = National Roads Board
NRSC = Natibnal Road Safety Council
PSRP = Public Sector Reform Program
PSC = Project Steering Committee
Roads Dept. = Roads Department
RDC = Rural District Council
RIM I = Road Maintenance Initiative
ROADSIP = Road Sector Investment Program
RTTP = Rural Travel and Transport Program
SDR = Special Drawing Right
SRP = Social Recovery Project
SRPU = Social Recovery Project Unit
TETAP= Transport Engineering and Technical Assistance Program
UNCDF = United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP = United Nations Development Program
VOC = Vehicle Operating Costs
ZNTB = Zambia National Tender Board
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
Vice President:                 Catlisto Madavo. AFR
Country Director:               Phyllis Pomerantz, AFC02
Technical Manager:              Yusupha Crookes. AFTTI
Task Team Leader:               Stephen Brushett. AFTT1



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PROJECT TO SUPPORT A
ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...............................................1
1. SECTOR BACKGROUND ...............................................2
A. Country Background ................................................2
B. The Transport Sector ................................................3
C. The Road Subsector ................................................6
2. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT ..............................................                                                                            19
A. Program and Project Objectives ...............................................                                                                    19
B. Rationale for IDA Involvement ...............................................                                                                    20
C Project Description ...............................................                                                                                21
D. Project Strategy ...............................................                                                                                 24
E. Project Cost ................................................ 25
F. Project Financing ...............................................                                                                                27
G. Foreign Funding ...............................................                                                                                  27
H. Local Funding ...............................................                                                                                     28
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............................................                                                                                  31
A. Implementation Arrangements ...............................................                                                                       31
B. Technical Assistance and Training ...............................................                                                                 33
D. Disbursement ...............................................                                                                                     37
E. Auditing and Accounting ...............................................                                                                          39
F. Monitoring and Reporting ...............................................                                                                         39
G. Supervision ...............................................                                                                                      40
4. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .............................................                                                                              41
A. Project Benefits ...............................................                                                                                 41
B. Key Performance Indicators ...............................................                                                                        43
C. Poverty Reduction and Employment Generation ...............................................                                                      43
D. Development of Local Contractors ...............................................                                                                  44
E. Environmental Impact ...............................................                                                                              45
F. Sustainability .46.........................................                                .     .     ....................................... 46
G. Project Risks ........ 46
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .............................................                                                                  49
A. Agreements ...............................................                                                                                       49
B. Assurances Provided at Negotiations ................................................ 50
C. Recommendation ...............................................                                                                                    51



LIST OF TABLES
TABLE 1- 1: 1994 MODE OF TRANspoRTING ZAMBIAN IMPORTS AND EXPORTS .............................................4
TABLE 1-2: 1994 PASSENGER VOLUME PER TRANSPORTATION .......................................................................5
TABLE 1-3: ROAD NETWORK ..........................................................................               12
TABLE 1-4: 1995 CONDITION OF SOME MAIN ROADS .........................................................................   12
TABLE 1-5: ESTIMATED DOMESTIC VEHICLE NUMBERS .........................................................................    14
TABLE 2- 1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST (US$ MILLION) ......................................................................... 26
TABLE 2-2: 1997-2002 ESTIMATED COSTS OF CIVIL WORKS (US$ MILLION) .............................................. 26
TABLE 2-3: SUMMARY OF PROBABLE PROJECT FINANCING (US$ MILLION) ................................................. 27
TABLE 2-4: SOURCES OF ROAD FUND RESOURCES (US$ MILLION) ............................................................... 30
TABLE 2-5: USES OF ROAD FUND RESOURCES (US$ MILLION) ..................................................................... 30
TABLE 3- 1: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS (US$ MILLION) ................................................ 35
TABLE 3-2: PROJECTED DISBURSEMENTS FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE (US$ MILLION) ................................ 37
TABLE 4- 1: LOCAL REVENUE REQuIREMENTS OF VARIOUS SCENARIOS ....................................................... 47
TABLE 4-2: FUEL LEVY PROCEEDS: RISK ANALYSIS SUMMARY ................................................................... 48
Definition of Terms
ANNEXES
1-1      Letter of Road Sector Policy
2-1      Description of Civil Works Program
3-1      Project Implementation Schedule
3-2      Disbursement Schedule and Comparative Disbursement Profile
3-3      Monitoring and Implementation Indicators
3-4      Supervision Plan
4-1      Economic Analysis
List of Documents in the Project File
Map: IBRD No. 28475
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Zambia June-July 1996,
comprising Stephen Brushett (Senior Operations Officer, Task Team Leader and Mission Leader), Ian
Heggie (Principal Roads Adviser), Subhash Seth (Highways Engineer), Robert Tillman (Senior
Environment Specialist), Toshiyuki Iwama (Transport Planner), Marianne Fay (Economist), Christina
Malmberg Calvo (Economist), Moctar Thiam (Consultant, Engineer), Ole Sylte (Consultant, Highway
Engineer) and George Sikazwe (Procurement and Disbursement Officer). Rosemary Cubagee (Consultant)
prepared the first draft of this report. Mary Ann Arouna, Marjorie Kingston, and Josiane Luchmun
provided editorial and administrative support in preparation of the report. Alan Coulthart, Alfred Nickesen
and Nwanze Okidegbe are the peer reviewers. Yusupha Crookes is the Technical Manager, Phyllis
Pomerantz is the Country Director, and Callisto Madavo is the Regional Vice President.



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PROJECT TO SUPPORT A
ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Government of the Republic of Zambia.
Implementing Agencies:    Ministry of Communications and Transport (MCT),
National Roads Board (NRB), Ministry of Works and
Supply, Roads Department (Roads Dept.), Ministry of
Local Government and Housing (MLGH), Ministry of
Finance and Economic Development, Social Recovery
Project Unit (SRPU).
Beneficiaries:           Road users, urban and rural communities, farmers, local
contractors and consultants.
Poverty:                 Program of Targeted Interventions.
Amount:                  SDR 51.5 million (US$70.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms, with 40 years' maturity.
Commitment Fee:          0.50% on undisbursed credit balance.
On-Lending Terms:        Not applicable.
Financing Plan:          See Schedule.
Economic Rate of Return:  21% average for major road works.
Staff Appraisal Report:  16539-ZA
Map:                     IBRD No. 28475
Project Identification
Number:                  ZM-PA-3236



- 2 -
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PROJECT TO SUPPORT A
ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
1. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A.   Country Background
1.1   Zambia is a land locked country with a surface area of about 750,000 km2and a
population of about 9.4 million, about half of whom live in urban areas. The country is
endowed with abundant land for agricultural expansion, a resource-base which includes
minerals, and a relatively unspoiled environment that hosts abundant wildlife and
considerable tourism potential. Zambia's rich endowment of copper at one time seemed
to ensure a glowing future. The reality has been vastly different. Since independence in
1964, Zambians have grown poorer and more heavily indebted, and the economy is
facing large external imbalances. Zambia's economic problems are partly due to lack of
diversification in the economy and to continued excessive reliance on copper, despite
falling prices and production since the mid-1970s. Coupled with this, its economic
policies in the past have failed to adapt to economic realities. Several partial economic
reform programs were initiated during the 1 980s, but these reforms were not sustained
and had little lasting effect. With the accumulation of arrears, Bank and IMF lending
operations were suspended between 1987 and March 1991 and again in September 1991.
In November 1991, the Movement for Multiparty Democracy (MMD), a political party
committed to policy reform, won the general elections. The new Zambian Government
cleared arrears to the Bank, agreed on a new Policy Framework Paper (PFP) with the
Bank and IMF, and began a Rights' Accumulation Program to clear arrears to the IMF.
Disbursements under IDA operations resumed in February 1992.
1.2   Over the past five years, the Zambian Government has sustained an ambitious
economic reform program designed to encourage movement towards a full market
economy and to significantly reduce the role of the state. Nearly all price and exchange
rate controls have been dismantled, import and export licensing has been eliminated,
interest rates have been decontrolled, the tariff structure has been compressed and
lowered, and comprehensive programs of civil service reform and parastatal privatization
have been started. These measures have helped create conditions conducive to increased
agricultural production and to the promotion of the private sector which over time should
reduce the country's dependence on the mining sector (especially copper) for output,
employment and exports. Economic performance has picked up relatively slowly thus far
and dependence of external financing for investment remains high. External assistance
from donors, however, slowed significantly in 1996 in large part due to concerns about
the conduct of the national elections held last November in which MMD was returned to



- 3 -
power. A resumption of donor support at least to the levels obtaining in the early 1990s
together with a concerted effort to reduce external indebtedness, inter alia through the
recently approved Heavily Indebted Poor Countries' Debt Initiative, will be necessary to
ensure there is adequate funding for Zambia's ongoing reform effort.
1.3   The Government's main concerns over the medium term are to accelerate the
supply response in the Zambian economy and provide infrastructure for growth, to
directly reduce poverty, and to reform the public sector and strengthen governance. In
line with this and in furtherance of the overriding objective of poverty reduction, the
Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS) for the period 1997 to 1999 aims to support the
Government's program as follows: (i) create a stable macroeonomic environment as a
prerequisite for growth and employment; (ii) target assistance to the poor and vulnerable
groups; and (iii) promote private sector development and greater public sector efficiency
to stimulate more rapid and inclusive growth.
1.4   The dilapidated state of Zambia's infrastructure, particularly in transport and
power, is a serious obstacle both to economic growth, because of the country's distance
from export markets, and to poverty reduction, because of its widely dispersed rural
population. The Government's approach is to adopt comprehensive strategies in the
various infrastructure subsectors aimed at ensuring sustainable growth through reform of
the policy and institutional environment, through specific measures designed to increase
domestic resource mobilization to reduce dependency on external financing, and through
action to increase private sector participation to increase the efficiency of service
provision and to improve access to service. With regard to investment, the proposed
approach is to undertake comprehensive and integrated sector operations to ensure that
available funding is channeled to highest priority programs.
B.   The Transport Sector
1.5   The contribution of the transport sector to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) has
fluctuated around 5% in recent years. In 1994, road transport contributed about 23%
compared to 27% from the railways to transport sector output. The volume of road
transport activity was adversely affected by drought in the period 1992-4 but still actually
rose in value in real terms by about 5% in 1994. About 2.2 million tonnes of the
country's imports and exports were transported by road in 1994 in comparison to only
400,000 tonnes by rail. In addition, the transport sector provides about 20,000 formal
sector jobs averaging about 4-5% of the total formal sector employment in the country.
1.6  In spite of the strategic importance of the transport sector to the Zambian
economy, resource allocation to the transport sectQr as a proportion of total national
capital investment in real terms is low and has been declining. In 1975, 13% of the total
capital investment was allocated to the transport sector. The equivalent allocation was
slightly under 7% in 1985 and less than 2% in 1994. Consequently, the general
deterioration of transport infrastructure in terms of both road and railway has accelerated,
making certain parts of the country impassable especially during the rainy season and



- 4 -
exacerbating the isolation of poor, rural communities. This notwithstanding, the burden
of the transport sector on the recurrent budget is considerable and largely due to the
inefficiency of transport sector enterprises. Losses were estimated as equivalent to 12%
of total government revenue in 1990-91. This was due partly to enterprise deficits though
these have since been brought down somewhat by liquidation (Zambia Airways) and by
restructuring of these enterprises. This level of losses is also explained by the shortfall of
road user charges in relation to road sector expenditure.
1.7   The transport network in Zambia comprises five distinct modes of transport, viz.:
rail, road, civil aviation, inland water transport and pipeline. Increasingly, road transport
is becoming the most important mode for both freight and passengers. An overview of
Zambia's major modes of transport reveals that rail and road account for the movement of
three quarters of total import and exports. Air and water play a very insignificant role
while the role of the Zambia-Tanzania Pipeline (TAZAMA) is limited to the
transportation of spiked crude oil from Dar-es-Salaam in Tanzania to Ndola in Zambia.
Table 1-1: 1994 Mode of Transporting Zambian Imports and Exports
Exports                     Imports
Mode of Transport    Mt-Tonnes        Percent       Mt-Tonnes      Percent
Air                     27,485           2.8          261,751        10.2
Inland Waterway         10,274           1.1             146          -
Parcel Post                60             4- 24
Rail                   326,267          33.5           60,397        2.4
Road                   609,004          62.6         1,604,553       62.6
Pipeline         l                         -          635,883        24.8
Total                  973,1 10          100        2,563,074        100
Source: Ministry of Communication and Transport
1.8   The most important sea routes/ports for land locked Zambia are to: Dar-es-Salaam
in Tanzania; Durban and East London in South Africa; and Maputo, Beira and Nacala in
Mozambique. The railway network comprises two systems, i.e., Zambia Railways Ltd.
(ZR) and Tanzania-Zambia Railways Authority (TAZARA). The ZR network comprises
1,273 km linking the Copperbelt of Zambia to the seaports of Durban and East London in
South Africa. ZR is further connected to Zaire Railways as well as TAZARA at Kapiri
Mposhi. ZR plies from the Copperbelt via Lusaka to Livingstone in Southern Province.
TAZARA provides services between Dar-es-Salaam and Kapiri Mposhi. Locally,
TAZARA provides passenger services from Nakonde through Northern and Central
Provinces to Kapiri Mposhi.
1.9   Although Zambia Railways (ZR) has the capacity for transporting about 8.5
million tonnes annually, the actual performance has fallen steadily in recent years. For
most of the 1980s, the company carried about four million tonnes of freight and two
million passengers per year. The performance in 1994, however, stood at two million
tonnes of freight traffic and one million passengers. Problems of ZR include: Overage



- 5 -
tracks; inadequate signaling system; inadequate motive power and rolling stock; deferred
maintenance and stiff competition from road hauliers; and high quality intercity bus
services. The financial condition of ZR has been on a deteriorating trend. During the
financial year 1994, revenue amounted to K27.8 billion on which ZR incurred an
operating deficit of over KI 0 billion against the anticipated operating surplus of K 1I
billion. Domestically, ZR plays an important but declining role in transporting
agricultural and mineral products, thus increasing the demands on Zambia's road
infrastructure. Some measures are now being taken to improve management of ZR.
Given the limited impact of reforms introduced to date, radical restructuring, which could
include concessioning of railway management to the private sector or outright
privatization, is being considered.
Table 1-2: 1994 Passenger Volume Per Transportation
Mode of Transport         Passenger Volume            Percent
Air                                   83,631                   18
Lake (Lakes Bangweulu & Mweru)        29,900                    1
Rail (Zambia Railways only)         1,005,660                 37
Road (UBCZ only)                    1,200,000                  44
Total                               2,319,191                 100
Source: Ministry of Communications and Transport
1.10 TAZARA is jointly owned by the Government of Zambia and Tanzania and has a
total track of about 1,860 kms of which about 883 kms is in Zambia. The track extends
from Kapiri Mposhi in Zambia to the port of Dar-es-Salaam in Tanzania. Like Zambia
Railways, TAZARA has experienced operational problems and has been working at less
than half of designed capacity largely due to shortages of motive power, rolling stock and
poor signaling and maintenance. Recently, however, TAZARA has undergone a major
restructuring and comniercialization process. Both the Zambia and Tanzania sectors now
operate as cost/profit centers with some degree of autonomy although operational and
financial performance is still suboptimal.
1.11  Zambia Airways Corporation Limited (ZA) used to be Zambia's national flag
carrier. However, in December 1994, the corporation was liquidated after years of
chronic operational and management problems. In place of Zambia Airways, a number
of privately owned airlines have emerged including Zambia Express Airways and Aero
Zambia, both of which are competing for the airline passenger domestic and sub regional
market. The airlines provide an alternative to road transport at the top end of the market
for passenger service to Livingstone and to Ndola and the Copperbelt. Operation of
Zambia's four largest airports have been commercialized and these are run generally on
efficient lines by National Airports Corporation Limited (NACL). Civil aviation services
are regulated by the Department of Civil Aviation (DCA) which also operates 40 smaller
airports in Zambia at a loss.
1.12  Inland water transport is the most underdeveloped mode of transport in the
country although it has potential for exporting freight to Zaire, Burundi and Tanzania



-6 -
through this means. The sub-sector continues to be constrained and hampered by
deferred maintenance and lack of rehabilitation. Freight movement on Lake Bangweulu,
for example, declined by 53% between 1993 and 1994 with only 123 tonnes of cargo
carried in 1994. Movements may continue to be adversely affected by subregional
political instability.
1.13 The Ministry of Communications and Transport (MCT) is responsible for overall
transport policy and for supervision of transport sector institutions. The Government has
over the past few years tried to pursue policies to improve sector performance to respond
to the changing requirements of consumers. The policy framework has favored an
increasing the role of the private sector transport as well as increased competition within
the transport subsectors, especially, road and air. The policy, with regard to the transport
sector, is set out in the White Paper on Communications and Transport Policy of May
1995 which is currently in the process of being updated for formal adoption by Cabinet.
Recognizing that sector investment has not kept pace with the economic importance of
the sector, and that the investment that has taken place has mostly been ineffective in
terms of raising the levels and quality of service offered, the Government has arrived at
the following specific objectives:
(a)   ensure availability of sufficient resources from both private and public
sector to create capacity in the transport sector commensurate with the
requirements of the economy;
(b)   allocate available resources among transport modes to meet requirements
at minimum cost to society; and
(c)   establish a system of transport pricing that would ensure a reasonable
return on transport investment.
The white paper makes reference to the dualistic pattern of development in the
country and the need to ensure future transport sector development, especially in the road
sector, pays greater attention to the periphery than hitherto, in particular to effectively
support the agricultural sector. The Government also envisages that greater attention will
need to be paid to the mitigation of the adverse environmental impact of the transport
sector, with particular regard to the road sector.
C.   The Road Subsector
I.    Road Policy and Management
1.14 National road policy is laid down in the Roads and Road Traffic Act (CAP 464)
passed in 1959 with subsequent amendments. The Act defines the different types of
roads and lays down regulations governing their construction and maintenance. The Act
designates the following seven types of road: (i) inter-territorial main roads (T);
(ii) territorial main roads (M); (iii) district roads (D); (iv) rural district roads (RD); (v)



- 7 -
rural roads (R); (vi) branch roads (B); and (vii) estate roads (E). All roads designated are
supposed to be assigned to a particular road authority in terms of the Act. T, M and D
roads fall under the responsibility of the Roads Department in the Ministry of Works and
Supply (MWS) except for those M and D roads which fall within a local authority area.
Local authorities under the Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH) are
responsible for RD and R roads as well as for urban roads. In the case of B and E roads, a
highway authority is to be designated at the discretion of the minister. Responsibilities
are also assigned under the Act to the Department of Parks and Wildlife for the
management of roads within the boundaries of national parks and to the Ministry of
Agriculture, Food and Fisheries for the management of a limited network of roads leading
to agricultural camps and institutions.
1.15  While the legislation is fairly clear in that it sets out who is responsible for what,
there are a number of issues that need to be addressed and there is a need to update
aspects of the legislation to take account of current realities. Firstly, the role of all
institutions currently involved in the roads sector is not defined. MCT is now responsible
for setting overall policy on road transport. The Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development (MFED) has some responsibility for budgeting and planning processes in
the road sector under separate legislation. In addition, a National Roads Board (NRB)
has been recently established, under Statutory Instrument No. 42 of 1994, to manage and
administer the Road Fund and is under the supervision of a Committee of Ministers
chaired by the Minister of Communications and Transport. Secondly, not all roads in
Zambia have been designated and of those which have been designated not all have been
assigned to a particular road authority. This leaves responsibility for management
unclear, and as a consequence many of these roads have not been maintained. A related
issue is that the original designation of a particular road may be outdated and that the road
is not assigned to the most appropriate authority. Thirdly, another issue is that the Act
makes no specific provision for the financing of roads so that resources may not always
be available to go with the responsibilities assigned under the Act. This has in the past
had negative consequences for the quality of the road network. Government intends to
revise CAP 464 to address these issues and to provide a firmer legislative basis for its
evolving policy initiatives in the roads sector.
1.16 A number of other institutions are involved in the roads sector although these do
not have a direct management function for the road network. Under the Ministry of
Communications and Transport, the Road Traffic Commission is responsible for motor
vehicle testing, drivers licenses and road patrols. The National Road Safety Council
(NRSC), established by Act in 1995, is responsible for planning and programming of
road safety programs, accident recording and the dissemination of road safety
information. The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources through the
Environment Council of Zambia (ECZ) is responsible for regulation and enforcement of
environmental legislation as it applies to the road sector. The Zambia National Tender
Board (ZNTB) has an oversight role in procurement and approves nearly all contracts for
services and supply.



- 8 -
IL    Human Resources and Implementation Capacity
1.17  The capacity of the various road authorities to carry out their responsibilities is
limited in that the requisite resources, in terms of staff, tools and finance, have generally
not been made available on a timely and adequate basis. All the authorities are
constrained to a greater or lesser extent by inadequate capacity due, among others, to
unfavorable conditions of service prescribed for civil servants, cumbersome tendering
procedures for purchases of goods and services, delays in making payments for
completed works and services, low road plant and equipment serviceability due to limited
repair capacity, and inability to replace salvaged road plant equipment due to shortage of
capital funding. In addition, the road maintenance program has typically been undertaken
in the past through force account. This approach has deficiencies in that it depends
strongly on the experience and motivation of a limited number of supervisors and
managers. In addition, there are the drawbacks of using poorly trained and motivated
staff.
1.18  The Roads Department has suffered from a lack of experienced personnel and has
in the past found difficulty in retaining senior staff. This shortage of qualified staff was
and is primarily attributable to the poor terms and conditions of employment for Roads
Department staff. In 1993, the incomes of engineers including allowances were less than
15% of comparable staff in the private sector. In the last two years, however, this gap has
been reduced somewhat and there has been an influx of young Zambian graduate
engineers joining the Roads Department and only five of the 29 engineering posts are
presently vacant. 67 out of 84 authorized technician positions are filled. Whereas the
staffing of the department has thus improved, the quality of technical staff in terms of
experience to be able to plan, program, supervise, manage and control the work activities
is yet to be attained. Accordingly, the Department continues to rely on foreign technical
personnel in certain positions. Training and capacity building is being provided to the
newly recruited engineers through ongoing donor assistance to the road sector.
1.19 Under the Public Sector Reform Program (PSRP), a restructuring plan has been
prepared for the Roads Department as part of the overall restructuring of the Ministry of
Works and Supply. The plan was adopted in October 1994 although the implementation
only commenced in 1997. The structure is predicated on a policy of increased reliance on
the private sector for road construction and maintenance, the phasing out of force account
and the strengthening of contract management and contractor supervision capabilities.
Implementation of this structure would have significant implications for the staffing of
the Roads Department - up to two thirds of casual staff and up to 15% of regular staff
have been identified as surplus to requirements. It would also require the Roads
Department to dispose of most of its vehicle and plant pool. The new role of the
department would generate a demand for more highly qualified and experienced
personnel and would also require strengthening of the provincial road engineers' offices
which will fill a critical role in contract management. These changes are being
underpinned by institutional support programs inter alia from NORAD and FINNIDA.
In addition, IDA financing through the Transport Engineering and Technical Assistance



- 9 -
Project (TETAP) is supporting the development of a highway management system
(HMS) to improve planning capability as well as the preparation of programs to improve
equipment management and maintenance.
1.20 No technical capacity for managing the road sector has previously existed in the
Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH) and this is only now in the process
of being created. The Government has taken the policy decision to vest in the ministry
the overarching responsibility for urban and rural district (feeder) roads and has decided
to create three roads positions within the Department of Infrastructure Support Services
(DISS), newly established as a consequence of the PSRP for MLGH. The effectiveness
of this new arrangement cannot as yet be fully determined as these staff are only recently
recruited and are still in the process of being trained. At present, internal and external
consultants are supplementing DISS' capacity. Much of this support has been financed
by IDA through TETAP through which consultants are currently preparing the first
detailed inventory of feeder roads based on province by province surveys and providing
training in roads planning to the ministry and to local authority staff. At local authority
level, technical posts (Director/Deputy Director of Works) are usually only 50% filled
and the incumbents are called on to address a variety of sectors including roads. The
lower levels of staff have had limited exposure to roadworks and their capacity is
correspondingly limited. The capacity of local authorities for implementation of
roadworks is thus still limited in terms of both physical capacity and experience.
1.21  NRB is currently managed by a small secretariat reporting to an Executive
Secretary. Salaries of key staff are being funded externally through the end of 1997 and
there is a small government budget contribution to cover operating costs. The Board
itself comprises representatives of the private sector and the public sector. While
primarily an advisory body to a Committee of Ministers chaired by the Minister of
Communications and Transport, the NRB has generally been allowed to exercise full
discretion in the allocation of resources to road maintenance (see para 1.24). The Board
consists of five ex of icio members representing government ministries (Finance, Works
and Supplies, Transport and Communications, Local Government, and National
Commission for Development Planning) and seven members representing road users and
the business community (Chamber of Commerce, road transport industry, Automobile
Association, farmers, Institute of Engineers, Chartered Institute of Transport, Copperbelt
University). All Board members are nominated by the organizations they represent and
the board elects its own chairperson and vice chairperson (currently from the Chartered
Institute of Transport and the Automobile Association respectively). The ex officio
members of the board participate in discussion, but have no vote. There are standing
committees which make recommendations to the main Board on technical and financial
matters. Whilst the NRB has only been operational since October 1994, it has been quite
effective to date in managing the Road Fund despite its limited human resource base.
More resources than hitherto have been channeled into road maintenance and the works
have generally been well supervised. Accordingly, Government is favorable to an
increase in staff complement and to the responsibilities of the NRB in the management of
the road sector. As a first step, additional expertise in engineering, finance and



- 10-
procurement is being recruited to enable NRB to sustain and to subsequently increase the
size of the road maintenance program. From July 22, 1997 in terms of Statutory
Instrument No. 93 of 1997, NRB has been given clear authority to hire staff it requires on
appropriate terms subject to the cost not exceeding 5% of Road Fund revenues.
III.  Road Financing and Expenditure
1.22  Funding for road activities has been characterized in the past by lack of reliable
needs assessment, inadequate financing, heavy dependence on external sources,
unpredictable budgetary releases, limited accountability and insufficient value for money.
The level of road maintenance budgets have been erratic and disbursements often cut and
as a result maintenance programs have had to be deferred. In general, disproportionately
high amounts of the budget have been allocated to capital programs leaving insufficient
funds for maintenance. Consequently, while new roads were being constructed, the
existing network was being neglected resulting in deterioration of significant lengths of
the road network.
1.23  There are currently three major sources of funds for road programs: Government
budget, the donor community and, since 1994, the Road Fund. The Governnent has
consistently underfunded the road sector. Government's maintenance expenditure was
only 12% of the total network requirements in 1991, estimated then at US$33.0 million
equivalent, and has actually been in decline in real terms since. Of the amount budgeted
for maintenance, only a fraction has been actually released in recent years - the situation
has worsened with the advent of cash budgeting in 1995 such that effectively the budget
does not finance maintenance at all at this juncture. The bulk of Government funding for
the road sector which has been released is intended for counterpart contribution to the
capital program. Most funding for capital investment in the road sector has, however,
been made available in terms of donor grants and loans. In addition, it is estimated that
on average about 80% of maintenance requirements have been funded by donors in recent
years. This is unsustainable given that the injection of donor capital funds has not been
balanced by a proportionate increase in maintenance funds by the Government, at least up
to and including 1994. Over the past five years, annual donor commitments to the road
sector program have averaged about US$30.0 million per annum in current prices. This
support fortunately has been and continues to be extensive and well diversified although
new funding commitments have been adversely effected by the deterioration of donor
relations since 1996.
1.24 The Road Fund was re-established in 1993 under Section 8 of Part II of the
Finance (Control and Management) Act Cap 347 and has been administered since
October 1994 by the National Roads Board (NRB). A fuel levy of K10 per liter of petrol
and diesel subsequently increased to K30 per liter in January 1995 and to K40 per liter in
January 1996. From fiscal 1997, the fuel levy is to be set as a percentage of the
wholesale price of fuel, currently 15%. These resources accrue to the Road Fund for the
purpose of funding road maintenance, the only consistent local source of road
maintenance funds at present. The fuel levy is collected by the oil marketing companies



- 11 -
and, since June 1997, channeled to the NRB through the Ministry of Communications
and Transport. Government is committed to streamlining these procedures and to
ensuring transparency in the flow and use of resources. The NRB has allocated money to
the Roads Department to maintain main, trunk, and district roads. Further funds have
been released to the local councils to carry out repairs on urban and feeder roads. Works
are actually managed by consulting engineers, and to a certain extent by the provincial
road engineers under the Roads Department, on behalf of these road authorities and
works are carried out by local private contractors. The fuel levy generated approximately
US$10.0 million in 1995 and this increased to US$13.0 million in 1996, which still
represents only 30% of maintenance expenditure requirements. This is currently
distributed on a regular basis to the various road authorities on the basis of the following
policy: Roads Department 40%, District Councils 40% and Urban Councils 20%. In
practice, district councils have been able to utilize only a fraction of this entitlement due
to capacity constraints. In 1996, disbursements to Lusaka and the Copperbelt towns
alone were about US$4.0 million equivalent. The amount of the fuel levy is also, at
present, insufficient to meet all maintenance needs. The Road Fund needs to be
supported from several sources rather than being totally reliant on the fuel levy.
Government has thus adopted a policy of paying over a portion of other road user
charges, e.g., transit fees and vehicle license fees, into the Road Fund to increase
resources available for maintenance. The Government has committed itself in its sector
policy letter to taking this approach from fiscal year 1998 (para 1.36).
IV.  Road Network
1.25  The extent of the entire road network in Zambia is not yet accurately established.
The total length of designated roads is about 37,000 kilometers whereas undesignated
roads may amount to up to 30,000 kilometers according to an estimate produced by
consultants financed by IDA under TETAP. This latter includes some 5,000 kilometers
of roads in Zambia's national parks which fall nominally under the responsibility of the
Department of Parks and Wildlife and an estimated 1,500 kilometers of urban roads. The
table below summarizes the road network by road class, road surface type and
responsibility. Zambia's designated road density works out to be 45 kilometers per
thousand square kilometers of land which is relatively low by Sub-Saharan Africa
standards. By contrast, it has one of the highest lengths of road network per capita in
Africa, at 3,800 kilometers per million population, which adds to the challenge of
providing adequate funding for maintenance. A very high proportion of these roads are
paved in relation to the situation prevailing in Zambia's neighbors.



- 12-
Table 1-3: Road Network
Road Surface (KM)
Road Class            KM of Roads       Paved       Earth       Gravel
Road Department
T-Roads                           3,225          3,085         140           -
M-Roads                           3,943          2,008         216        1,719
D-Roads                          13,696           1,289      5,670        6,537
Sub-Total                        20,864          6,582       6,026       8,256
Local Authorities
RD-Roads                         10,184              -       9,096        1,088
R-Roads                           5,714              -       5,714           -
Urban Roads                       1,543            700           -         843
Sub-Total                      17,441           700       14,810       1,931
Parks and Wildlife
Parks Roads                       5,162              -       4,000        1,162
Other Rural                      22,483              -      22,483           -
Grand Total                      65,950          7,282      47,319       11,349
Of Which Designated              36,762          6,582      20,836        9,344
Source: Roads Department and Bank Estimates
1.26   Designated roads are classified according to their construction design standard
with regard to formation width, carriageway width and surface type. Class 1 roads in
three subcategories are all bitumenised whereas Classes 11 and 111 roads are gravel
surface. Earth roads are not classified. A large part of the main road network was
constructed in the decade between 1965 and 1975. For a long time routine and periodic
road maintenance have been neglected mainly due to lack of funding. These roads are
now in the last part of their design life. For the paved network, in 1984 the proportion in
good, fair and poor condition was 40%, 30% and 30% respectively. However, by 1995
these proportions had worsened to 20%, 29% and 51 % respectively according to a survey
of just over 8,800 kilometers of trunk main and district roads. In addition, little or no
maintenance has been carried out on feeder roads and the condition of these roads is even
worse, an estimated 90% being in poor condition.
Table 1-4: 1995 Condition of Some Main Roads
Road Quality
Road Class        Good           Fair          Poor           Total
T-Roads               454           694          1,188           2,336
M-Roads               771           939          1,782           3,492
D-Roads               514            893         1,620           3,027
Total Length         1,739         2,526         4590            8,855
%             20%            29%           51%            100%
Source: Roads Department



- 13 -
V.   The Road Construction Industry
1.27  The road construction industry in Zambia is relatively underdeveloped. There
was a lack of incentive in the past to private sector involvement due to low and erratic
financing for maintenance and rehabilitation, to cumbersome public sector tendering and
payment procedures and to the predominant role in the past of public sector force
account. The Government has, however, now placed high priority on private sector
construction industry in line with its development objectives and has issued a National
Policy on the Construction Industry (NPCI). Under this policy, a National Council for
Construction (NCC) has been reestablished under the Societies Act with private and
public sector membership and with the goal of reviewing and proposing modifications to
standards, regulations and legislation affecting the industry and of monitoring
construction industry development. At present out of 554 formal sector contractors
registered with the Ministry of Works and Supply only 46 are registered as road
contractors. According to a recent study financed by IDA under TETAP, the capacity of
the local road construction industry is put at US$25.0 million per annum. Only 20% of
this capacity is Zambian majority owned and only about 50% of this capacity is currently
being utilized. Growth is still constrained by the perception of a lack of sufficient
demand and by aging and inefficient plant. Informal sector contractors or potential
contractors cannot readily be estimated but in terms of potential output, employment and
tumover may be equivalent to or greater than the formal sector. Some specific programs
are now underway, including the UNDP-funded feeder road program in Eastern Province,
to encourage labor-based contracting for which increasing opportunities are emerging in
routine maintenance and rehabilitation of feeder roads in areas where there is a lack of
existing construction capacity. Under NORAD funding, ILO has been supporting the
diversification of the Roads Training School's programs to cater for small contractors'
needs.
VI.  Road Transport
1.28 The number of vehicles registered in Zambia during 1975 - 1995 is shown below.
The data, which are not however considered to be fully reliable, indicate that between
1975 and 1988 the fleet declined considerably but since then it has more than doubled to
a fleet strength of 129,000 in 1995, the majority of which are passenger cars. Recent
survey findings and records at the Road Traffic Commission appear to suggest that the
private sector currently owns more than 95% of the total road passenger vehicles as well
as road freight fleet. On the basis of recent averages, there were about 12 vehicles per
1,000 population in Zambia compared to 47 in the SADC region and to about 20 in Sub
Saharan Africa as a whole.



-14-
Table 1-5: Estimated Domestic Vehicle Numbers
Vehicle Type         1975    1980    1984    1988    1992    1995
|Motor Cycles             10,208    5,164   4,819   5,238    5,000    5,500
Passenger Cars           94,259   69,003   68,032   26,702   70,000   90,000
Buses & Minibuses          855      957    1,064    2,545    2,500    4,500
Vans, Vanettes & Ambulances    29,438   17,821   18,545   18,911   19,000   22,000
Trucks                   17,293   12,447   16,971    5,597    6,000    7,000
Total                   1 52,053  105,392  109,431   58,993  102,500  129,000
Source: Road Traffic Commission
1.29  Traditionally, road freight transport in Zambia had been broadly divided into three
main categories: parastatals, notably Contract Haulage (CHL), ZAM-TAN and the
Zambia Co-operative Federation (ZCF) transport division; members of the Truckers
Association of Zambia (TAZA)/Federation of Road Hauliers (FEDHAUL); and
independent and own account operators. Up until the mid-1980s, the road haulage
industry was dominated by parastatals but these have either collapsed through
inefficiency or have been very much reduced in importance. The advent of deregulation
and privatization has helped private haulage to emerge as a formidable force in the
domestic road haulage sector. The average number of operational trucks per day is
estimated at 60 and 2,000 for parastatals and private sector respectively. The average
distance covered per month per vehicle is 6,000 km and 12,000 km for parastatals and
private sector respectively. In this period also, the dominance of road freight over other
modes has been established - road accounted for 60% of all freight in 1994 compared to
under 20% in 1989.
1.30  Since the mid- 1 980s, the quality of road passenger transport has been generally
poor. During the 1 990s, public transport services can be described as a declining
dominance of the public sector and increasing importance of the private sector.
Following the temporary suspension of duty on commercial buses from 1994 and the
liquidation of the United Bus Company of Zambia (UBZ) at the beginning of 1995, the
number of passenger carrying vehicles has increased by an estimated 75%. Fares are now
broadly set by market forces with minimal government intervention which is seen as
generally favorable to further private sector involvement in passenger transport. The
Road Traffic Commission remains responsible for issuance of licenses and for vehicle
inspection. Rural areas are not fully catered for in terms of motorized transport. Survey
findings in three provinces, Luapula, Northern and Southern, confirm that walking and to
a lesser extent bicycles are the predominant means of transport (90% of trips) in villages,
the major explanatory variable being the poor state of roads in rural areas and the lack of
access to credit for small operators.
VII. Road Safety and Accidents
1.31  With a recent average of over 900 persons killed in road accidents every year,
Zambia has one of the highest fatality rates per 1,000 vehicles, both in the sub-region, and



- 15 -
among developing countries. About 118 persons are killed every year in road accidents
per every 1,000 vehicles in Zambia compared to an average of 71 in the SADC region or
about 62 in Sub Saharan Africa (average of sixteen countries). Pedestrians constitute
42% of fatal road accident victims in Zambia followed by passengers of motor vehicles at
36%. The poor are a disproportionally large element among pedestrian casualties.
Important causal factors relate to incompetent driving exacerbated by inadequate traffic
signs and faulty vehicles. Further, unmaintained and sub-standard roads have contributed
to accidents, especially on busy urban roads. Efforts to date to arrest the increasing
incidence of accidents have not been particularly effective. This has not been helped by
the involvement of a number of institutions in the area of road safety whose interventions
have not been well coordinated. The creation of a National Road Safety Council in 1995
with significant private sector involvement could address the issue more effectively in
future provided the Council would have adequate financial and human resources at its
disposal.
1.32  Road accidents cause both tangible and intangible costs to the economy. Tangible
costs include direct costs such as: (i) direct damage to the vehicles (replacement of parts);
(ii) policing and administration costs; (iii) medical treatment and indirect costs of injury;
(iv) reduction in output due to injury and death; and insurance costs. Intangible costs
include pain, grief and suffering and the risk of being involved in an accident. In
economic terms, it is estimated that the cost of road accidents to the Zambian economy is
over US$78.0 million or 2.3% of the Gross National Product (GNP) in 1995. Since all
vehicles are imported, this amount also represents the scarce foreign exchange that has to
be earned and spent.
VIII. Environmental Aspects
1.33  Historically, there had been neither emphasis on nor any legal requirements for
road authorities submitting environmental impact analyses (EIA) for road works. The
few EIAs which had been done on some roads had been as a result of the requirement by
some donor or international funding agencies. However, new EIA guidelines have been
finalized by the Environmental Council of Zambia (ECZ) and the necessary enabling
legislation passed - The Environmental Protection and Pollution Control (Environmental
Impact Assessment) Regulations, 1997. These regulations require that a project brief and
environmental impact study be performed for any new project, extension, or maintenance
of an existing project. The EIA guidelines will still need to be customized to the needs of
the road sector. The environmental impact of new road construction is considerable but
that of rehabilitation and maintenance programs much less so. Aspects which require
particular attention are: management of road realignment and diversion; borrow pits and
construction camps; and road safety during construction and/or maintenance. In advance
of proposed road sector investment program and under funding provided from TETAP,
the Government appointed a local consultant to provide an environmental impact analysis
and to propose specific mitigation measures, including the creation of environmental
management capacity in the roads sector. On the basis of this report, an environmental
management committee was established in October 1996 with private and public sector



- 16-
participation to put together specific proposals for strengthening environmental
management in the roads sector. Among other things, the committee has drawn up terms
of reference and has arranged the recruitment of specialized consultancy services to firstly
prepare road sector environmental standards and guidelines for use in all future road
works, and to secondly staff an environmental management unit attached to Roads Dept.
for a pilot phase of two years.
IX.   Lessonsfrom Previous Bank Group Programs
1.34 Experience from three past highways lending operations in Zambia (Third
Highway Project loan number 1566-ZA, Second Highway Project loan number 563-ZA
and First Highway Project loan number 469-ZA) indicate the persistence of a number of
problems hampering effective sector development, i.e.: lack of commitment to road
maintenance; weak institutions and a shortage of qualified staff; inadequate planning and
programming; and insufficient and unpredictable budget allocations for road
maintenance. A number of these shortcomings are already being addressed through
measures Government has adopted such as increased, dedicated maintenance funding and
through an ongoing a program of studies, technical assistance and workshops to develop a
sustainable system for the management and financing of roads. The Bank Group is
making a major contribution to these efforts, through both the Road Maintenance
Initiative (RMI) and through TETAP. Through RMI, and particularly the February 1993
workshop, broad consensus was developed in Zambia on the need for institutional reform
and improvement in the financing arrangements for road maintenance - subsequent
decisions on the creation of the Road Fund and NRB owe a good deal to this initiative.
Through TETAP and as noted above, the Bank has tendered support to a number of
activities preparatory to the launching of a comprehensive sector investment program
including: strengthening of the management and financing of roads; support to the new
urban and feeder road function in MLGH; establishing a highway management system
(HMS) in Roads Dept.; studies on the construction and consulting industries and
equipment management and maintenance. In addition, the design of the proposed
program explicitly incorporates lessons learnt from recent Africa region experience in
building sustainable roads programs, notably in: Tanzania - Integrated Roads Project-IRP
(Credit No. 2149-TAN); Mozambique - Roads and Coastal Shipping Project-ROCS II
(Credit No. 2599-MOZ); and Ghana - Highway Sector Investment Program (Credit No.
2858-GH). Particular note has been taken of the following points: using an integrated
sector approach; carefully phasing policy reforms and investrnents; stimulating the
development of a local contracting industry through the provision of suitably packaged
works; resolving early in the project maintenance funding and organizational issues; and
emphasizing capacity-building by using short-term TA and local consultants, and
ensuring transfer of skills to identified counterparts.
1.35  Important lessons have also been gleaned from the experience of ongoing sector
investment programs in other sectors, including the health and agricultural sectors in
Zambia. The potential benefits from sector wide approaches are significant but
experience suggests that there are high risks especially where all preconditions are not in



-17-
place. The lessons of experience suggest the following are particularly important: sector
investment and expenditure programs need to be embedded in good economic and sector
strategy; strong analytical underpinning to the design of the program is required including
adequacy of institutional arrangements and local capacity; broad participation of
stakeholders and genuine and committed leadership from the country is essential as
opposed to from the Bank or donor community. Experience in Zambia, especially in the
health sector, demonstrates the value of a flexible approach in that policy and program
implementation goals need to be reviewed, and adjusted where necessary on a regular
basis, as the real capacity of the country to deliver on the ground becomes apparent.
X     Road Sector Development Strategy
1.36 The government's road sector development strategy starts from the
aforementioned white paper on communications and transport (para 1.13). The strategy
also incorporates the key findings and recommendations of earlier sector studies, notably
the Road Maintenance, Organization and Training Study (RMOTS) completed in August
1993 under AfDB funding, which identified the need for sector reforms. The key
elements of the strategy to be followed in order to address the inadequacy of road
infrastructure, meet growing traffic demand and increase access in rural areas are set out
in the letter of March 21, 1997 of the Minister of Finance and Economic Development to
the President of the Bank which deals with road sector policies and the road sector
investment program and which is at Annex 1-1. The Government's sector strategy lays
particular emphasis on:
(a)   Creating an appropriate institutional framework for the management of the
road sector.
(b)   Rehabilitating priority roads in view of the large backlog of works.
(c)   Ensuring effective arrangements for the management and financing of
maintenance.
(d)   Developing the domestic construction and consulting industry.
(e)   Improving community accessibility and mitigating environmental impacts.
1.37  These strategic considerations have come about as a result of an intensive
preparation process piloted by the Government through MCT. The process has, however,
relied on significant input from the community of local stakeholders. A national task
force was established in June 1995 to prepare a road sector investment program after
extensive consultation with local stakeholders and with the donor and NGO communities.
The Bank has actively supported this process by providing part of the funding
requirements of preparing position papers - on inter alia road transport, road safety,
environmental considerations, selection criteria and community road management -
which were presented as a basis for discussion at a stakeholder workshop in February



- 18-
1996. The workshop endorsed the proposed road sector investment program (ROADSIP)
which was subsequently discussed by and agreed to by the Committee of Ministers and
which forms the basis of the proposed operation.



- 19-
2. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
A.   Program and Project Objectives
2.1   The overriding goal of the Government for the roads sector is to facilitate
economic growth and diversification (particularly in the agricultural sector) through
appropriate investments in road infrastructure and through a sustainable system for the
financing and management of the road network. The Government's medium term
program, ROADSIP, is expected over a 10-year time horizon to address this goal and has
the following other major objectives:
(a)   bringing a core network of 33,500 kilometers into maintainable condition;
(b)   bringing the condition of the road network to at least 50% good and about
10% poor for all types of road;
(c)   strengthening the technical and managerial capacity of road authorities;
(d)   creating employment opportunities in the road sector and alleviating
poverty through the creation of 30,000 new jobs in road maintenance;
(e)  improving road safety and reducing road accidents by at least 20%;
(f)  improving environmental management in the road sector through
establishing procedures and guidelines;
(g)   providing an enabling environment for improved road transport services
and increasing the truck and bus fleet by at least 20% in rural areas; and
(h)   developing a framework for the management of community roads and
promoting community participation in road management.
2.2   The project addresses the first time slice of the program for the period 1997-2002
and is expected to contribute to the realization of the program goals. The five specific
objectives of the project are:
(a)   reform of the road sector policy and institutional framework, including
changes to the legal framework for roads and road traffic management and
strengthening and refocusing the roles of sector institutions (NRB, Roads
Dept., and MLGH) aimed at enhancing capacity, increasing efficiency of
the use of resources and improving planning and implementation
performance;



-20-
(b)   strengthening of road sector financing aimed at ensuring the sustainability
of the road maintenance effort and reducing the strain on limited
government revenues with the specific targets of streamlining the
functioning of the Road Fund and increasing and diversifying road user
charges to ensure at minimum 70% coverage of periodic and routine
maintenance costs of the core network by 2002;
(c)   strengthening of the local construction and consulting industry in line with
country objectives of creating greater opportunities for the private sector to
participate in the design, construction and maintenance of roads and with
the specific target of creating 14,000 new jobs by 2002;
(d)   addressing the road maintenance and rehabilitation backlog through a
priority investment program with the specific target of increasing the
proportion of main roads in good condition to about 45% and the
proportion of feeder roads in good condition to about 15% of the network
by the year 2002; and
(e)   establishing a pilot program for community road management in at least
three districts to test approaches for sustainable improvements in
maintenance of these undesignated roads and to promote increased usage
of non-motorized transport means.
B.   Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.3   The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated June 25, 1996, and
discussed by the Board July 18, 1996, supports the Zambian Government's development
objectives and policies. The Bank is supporting a three pronged strategy - helping to
create a stable macroeconomic environment, to promote private sector development and
greater public sector efficiency, and to target assistance to poor and vulnerable groups.
To this end, the Government wishes to address current transport infrastructure
deficiencies and has identified the need for integrated road sector development associated
with policies to increase private sector participation in the road sector, to increase the
volume of self financing and to improve rural accessibility. The CAS underlines the
importance of improved infrastructure, particularly in transport, for growth and for
poverty reduction. The Bank is uniquely well placed to help government deliver a road
sector program that is consonant with its development objectives. The Bank has been
strongly associated with the changes recently effected in the roads sector. Through the
1992 public expenditure review for the transport sector and through the Road
Maintenance Initiative (RMI), which is a multi-donor program managed by the Bank,
critical impetus has been given to sector reform, and to the establishment of the Road
Fund and the NRB in particular. The RMI program in Zambia is ongoing and provides
for a number of capacity building and dissemination programs which are helping build
consensus among stakeholders on the need for, and the direction of change, including



- 21 -
greater involvement of the private sector. IDA's involvement in the proposed program
will help ensure that stakeholder coordination is maintained throughout.
C.   Project Description
(a)   Civil Works
2.4   The civil works component will focus on the priority needs for road maintenance
and rehabilitation for the period 1997-2002 which is expected to cover about 22,000
kilometers out of the core network. The program also includes limited accessibility
improvement on up to 17,000 kilometers of feeder roads, including some currently
undesignated roads, only a portion of which will eventually be upgraded to full
engineering standard. The program is inclusive of ongoing works. The component
would include inter-territorial trunk, territorial main, district, and primary feeder and
urban roads in all provinces of the country. A large part of the unpaved road including
90% of the feeder roads and 41% of the district roads are non-engineered and are
inadequate in terms of both geometric dimensions and structural strength of the road
pavement. Poor/non-engineered roads will need to be upgraded to an acceptable standard
before they qualify for regular maintenance.
2.5   Given the large part of the core road network has suffered due to prolonged
backlog of road maintenance, the civil works program is based on an optimum balance
of: (a) carrying out routine and periodic maintenance on all good and fair roads in order
to avoid a further increase in the maintenance backlog; (b) rehabilitation of poor roads
based on priority ranking, based on economic rate of return for most main and urban
roads and on multi criteria selection for feeder roads and for some low volume main
roads, and the roads after rehabilitation would be placed under annual routine
maintenance and pluri-annual periodic maintenance program; (c) upgrading important
non-engineered roads based on the above agreed selection criteria; and (d) providing all-
weather possibility to the strategic links of non-engineered roads, particularly during peak
agriculture seasons. The strategy does not provide for any new road construction, but
rather places emphasis on gradually reducing the proportion of the road network that is
poor, i.e. from 56% to 19% for main roads and from 90% to 71% of feeder roads by the
end of project period. A detailed description is at Annex 2-1. The main sub-components
are as follows, with estimated base costs given in parentheses:
(a)   Routine maintenance (US$70.1 million). The annual routine maintenance
program would cover only good and fair roads, the volume of which will
increase over the course of the program. The program will amount to
about 6,700 km in 1997 and is expected to rise to 15,700 km by 2002.
(b)   Periodic Maintenance (US$75.6 million). The periodic maintenance
program would focus on preserving the network from further deterioration
especially unpaved roads with low traffic volume. The component would
include resealing/ resurfacing of about 1,200 km of paved roads and



- 22 -
regravelling of 5,400 km of unpaved roads both inclusive of spot repairs
on the surface area of less than 10%. Periodicity for periodic maintenance
of both paved and unpaved roads would be generally in the range of 6 to
10 years.
(c)   Rehabilitation (US$145.0 million). Rehabilitation will be carried out on
1,200 km of paved trunk and main roads and on 300 km of paved urban
roads. After completing rehabilitation works the roads will be covered
under the regular maintenance program.
(d)   Upgrading (US$32.8 million). Upgrading of non-engineered roads is
necessary before they can be placed under a regular maintenance program.
The project would include the provisions for upgrading about 2,600 km of
unpaved (district and feeder) roads to acceptable engineering standards.
(e)   ImprovingAccessibility (US$24.0 million). Non-engineered roads not
covered under the phased program of upgrading must be kept passable,
especially during the peak agriculture season. This intervention will,
however, be carried out only on selected road sections on initially 17,000
kilometers falling to 14,400 kilometers by 2002 as selected roads are
upgraded during the project.
2.6   The program has been developed taking into account planning, implementation
and supervision capacity of NRB, Roads Dept. and MLGH, assessing the capacity of
local contractors and the expected availability of counterpart and donors financing,
including for ongoing works. The program is based on the most likely or medium case
scenario which is broadly consistent with the program proposed in Government's letter of
sector policy. But because of uncertainties regarding future implementation capacity and
funding availability, a low case and a high case scenario have also been developed and
are at Annex 2-1. The high case assumes that all the backlog of periodic maintenance will
be addressed during the project period and that the Government's quality improvement
goal for the program can be achieved within five years. The low case assumes none of
the backlog is addressed and that a very limited rehabilitation program is undertaken to
ensure no further network deterioration in aggregate. All three cases presume that the
routine maintenance requirements of the network in good and fair condition are met as
the first priority. The priority program for which works will commence in the first two
years has been defined in detail as a condition of negotiations (see para 5.1) whereas the
program for the outer years remains indicative at this stage. The program for the outer
years is to be firmed up after the process of annual review of program implementation has
determined the implementation capacity and the availability of local and foreign
financing and any proposals will have been made and agreed to by Government for
modifying the scope and objectives of the civil works program in these years. The
criteria for the selection of projects have been proposed by Government and agreed to by
IDA as a condition of credit negotiations (para 5.1).



- 23 -
(b)   Community Accessibility Program
2.7   The component for community road and road transport development (US$6.3
million) is aimed at improving access for the poor. In recognition of the importance for
the country's development of increasing the access of the poor to the market economy
and to essential services, a separate and innovative program will be included with the
objective of developing a framework for sustainable management of community road
infrastructure and of creating an enabling environment for the increased use of
intermediate means of transport (IMT). The program will be carried out in conjunction
with MLGH and the Social Recovery Project Unit(SRPU) and will start on a pilot basis
in one province (Eastern) in up to three districts and will eventually be mainstreamed on
the basis of the pilot exercise. Up to 500 km of roads and bridges are expected to be
covered under the program under about 70 separate subprojects to the cost of which
communities will contribute in cash or in kind. At least 10 subprojects are to be
implemented in the first year of the program. The component would also cover technical
assistance support in the areas of community development, including a roads technical
specialist for the SRPU; training support in the areas of participatory assessment; labor
based construction methods; and finance and business management; a program of studies
and a demonstration program for IMT options to increase rural mobility. The recently
established Zambia country program of the Rural Travel and Transport Program (RTTP),
which is administered by the Bank and which is funded by bilateral donors, will support
the pilot initiative. The legal status of community roads will be addressed as part of the
policy support component under the MCT (para 2.9)
(c)   Construction Industry Development Program
2.8   The component for promoting the development of local construction and
consulting capacity (US$2.8 million) is aimed at increasing capacity to meet growing
needs for road maintenance and rehabilitation and addressing constraints to the fuller
involvement of local contractors, particularly small labor based contractors, in the road
program. The component includes the following subcomponents: (a) technical assistance
for improving Government contracting policies and procedures, including streamlining of
contractor registration procedures, developing new simplified tendering procedures and
contract documentation, and streamlining of the legal framework; and (b) further
development of training programs for contractors with particular emphasis on labor based
methods and strengthening the capacity of the Roads Training School. The Ministry of
Works and Supply is responsible for construction industry development and will thus
coordinate this component. The ministry will work closely with the National Council for
Construction (NCC) which has been reestablished in July 1996 to provide a more
effective forum for the private sector to discuss issues and agree on action plans for
construction industry development. It is thus envisaged that support will be provided to
NCC through the project to enable it to effectively carry out its mandate.



- 24 -
(d)   Institutional Capacity Building
2.9   Technical assistance and training in the areas of policy support, implementation
support and institutional development (US$5.8 million). The strong focus of this project
is support to strengthening of sector capacity through restructuring road sector institutions
and improving management structures. The main elements of the component include:
(a) policy support: analysis and evaluation of the impact of program road sector
institutional strengthening measures; analysis and evaluation of measures taken to
strengthen road sector financing through streamlining management of the Road Fund and
diversifying road user charges; development of a road safety action program including
strengthening of NRSC; development of a program for the reform of the legal framework
for roads and road transport, including regulation and licensing of the private sector; and
improvement in axle load management; (b) implementation support: technical assistance
support to program implementation in NRB, to support to help manage the feeder road
program in MLGH and in local authorities, and to project supervision in Roads Dept.;
and (c) institutional development: develop NRB and Roads Dept. capacity in the
following areas: environmental analysis and monitoring, contracts management,
financial management, equipment management and maintenance, selection criteria,
procurement management and quality assurance, and data bases for core network
management; and develop an urban road management system for MLGH.
(e)   Engineering Services
2.10  Technical assistance for feasibility studies, engineering design and supervision of
rehabilitation and maintenance works (US$20.8 million).
D.   Project Strategy
2.11  The Government fully recognizes the seriousness of the sector problems and is
adopting a strategy of rationalizing the planning, construction and maintenance of roads,
of ensuring adequate funding is made available in a sustainable fashion, and addressing
the lack of road infrastructure to increase access especially in rural areas. The
govermment's strategy is to build carefully and sequentially on recent improvements in
the management and financing of roads through further strengthening of the policy and
institutional framework and to build up the size and scope of the maintenance and
rehabilitation program commensurate with available capacity. The medium term
objective remains that of deepening reform of the sector institutional framework in line
with the policy of fully commercializing the road sector. The Government expects that,
once road sector institutions have been strengthened as a first step in this direction under
the present program, rationalization of these institutions can take place with a view to
establishing a single national road organization with overarching responsibility for road
sector management. The sector policy letter clearly indicates Government's preparedness
to modify or accelerate this institutional strategy should this be necessary to address
problems and issues that may arise during implementation. The Government has
specified particular objectives for the coming five years for the road sector on which basis



- 25 -
it will determine how and over what period of time the balance of ROADSIP goals can be
achieved. There are three other important strategic developments which underpin the
program. Firstly, explicit attention is to be given to addressing constraints to the fuller
participation of the private sector in roads. Secondly, the program recognizes the
particular problems of rural accessibility and seeks to address this with a view to
increasing participation in the market economy. Thirdly, the government has sought to
actively involve all stakeholders in the preparation of the program and will support a
policy of systematic involvement of these groups in program implementation.
E.   Project Cost
2.12  The five-year project (including physical and price contingencies) is estimated to
cost US$459.8 million of which about 55% would be in foreign exchange. Of the base
costs of about US$383.2 million, about US$347.5 million would be for civil works,
including US$70.1 million on routine maintenance, US$75.6 million on periodic
maintenance, US$145.0 million on rehabilitation of selected roads, US$32.8 million on
upgrading of feeder roads, and US$24.0 million on accessibility improvement for feeder
roads. The cost of the community program would be US$6.3 million, US$2.8 million
would be the cost of the construction industry development program, US$5.8 million the
cost of the institutional capacity building and US$20.8 million the cost of engineering
services. The cost estimates for rehabilitation works were prepared in June 1996 and
updated in February 1997 based on the prices given in the recently awarded contracts.
The unit rates for maintenance operations were derived from the data entered in the HMS.
A summary cost table is included below.



- 26 -
Table 2-1: Summary of Project Cost (US$ million)
Project Components                                     Local      Foreign   Total
A. Civil Works
*  Routine maintenance of the core network              51.9       18.2      70.1
*  Periodic maintenance of the core network             49.1       26.5      75.6
*  Rehabilitation of selected roads                     29.0      116.0     145.0
Upgrading offeeder roads                              6.6      26.2      32.8
*  Accessibility improvement for feeder roads            15.6       8.4      24.0
Subtotal Civil Works                                    152.2     195.3     347.5
B. Community Accessibility Program                        1.3       5.0       6.3
C. Construction Industry Development Program              0.0       2.8       2.8
D. Institutional Capacity Building                        1.9       3.9       5.8
E. Engineering Services                                   8.3      12.5       20.8
Total Base Costs                                        163.7     219.5     383.2
Physical Contingencies                                   15.3      20.0      35.3
Price Contingencies                                     26.3       15.0      41.3
Total Project Cost                                     205.3      254.5     459.8
2.13   The estimated annual costs of the various components of the civil works program
are given below. Maintenance expenditure will increase year-by-year as capacity is built
up and as the percentage of the network in good and fair condition increases.
Expenditure on maintenance in real terms is not, however, expected to stabilize until after
year 2002, in fact no earlier than.the year 2007, by which point the maintenance backlog
is expected to have been fully addressed. The rehabilitation program for the first two
years is largely based on the expected expenditure on ongoing or already committed
donor funded projects with the addition some of the works to be funded from the
proposed IDA credit.
Table 2-2: 1997-2002 Estimated Costs of Civil Works (US$ million)
Year                        1997/98      1999     2000       2001      2002       Total
Routine Maintenance           9.2        11.3     13.5       16.5       19.5       70.1
Periodic Maintenance         14.7        14.5     15.6       15.4       15.3       75.6
Subtotal                     23.9       25.8      29.1       31.9      34.8       145.7
Rehabilitation               15.0       30.0      33.0       25.0      42.0       145.0
Upgrading                     3.6         5.5      6.4        8.2       9.1        32.8
Accessibility Improvement     5.1         5.1      4.9        4.6       4.3        24.0
Grand Total                  47.6       66.4      73.4       69.7      90.4       347.5



- 27 -
F.    Project Financing
2.14  The total contribution from local sources is expected to be about US$157.8
million. Of this amount US$115.0 million is to be mobilized from the existing fuel levy
and US$16.0 million from other road user charges both to be channeled through the Road
Fund (see paras 2.16-2.17). An estimated US$14.5 million towards counterpart funding
for ongoing rehabilitation works and an additional US$12.3 million towards counterpart
funding of new upgrading and rehabilitation works will come from the Government
budget. The total estimated external financing requirement is thus put at US$302.0
million. IDA will provide US$77.5 million, of which about US$7.5 million from
ongoing projects, which would finance about 16% of the total project cost. The balance
is expected to be provided out of ongoing and new commitments by other donors.
Ongoing commitments are estimated at US$116.5 million and estimated new financing to
be negotiated in 1997 and to be made available for the project is US$65.0 million. With
satisfactory performance of the project, it is not anticipated that it would be difficult to
mobilize the balance of funding of US$55.5 million required for the project. In the event
that other donors cannot commit to this balance, accelerating additional IDA financing
could be considered. This will be explicitly built into the agenda for discussion at mid-
term review. In the event of less than satisfactory implementation performance, the low
case scenario for civil works comes into play for which no additional external financing
would be needed. A summary of the financing is given below.
Table 2-3: Summary of Probable Project Financing (US$ million)
Source         Local     Foreign     Total     Percent
Road Users          91.7       39.3      131.0      28.5
Government          26.8       0.0       26.8        5.8
Local Sub Total       118.5       39.3      157.8
Ongoing/Committed
IDA                                       7.5        1.6
AfDB                                      17.0       3.7
EU                                       20.0        4.3
Denmark                                  32.0        7.0
Germany                                   4.0        0.9
Japan                                    20.0        4.3
Norway                                     6.5       1.4
UNDP                                       6.5       1.4
Finland                                   2.0        0.4
Others                                     1.0       0.2
Foreign Sub Total      22.5       94.0      116.5
New financing
IDA                                          70.0      15.2
Norway                                       20.0       4.3
Denmark                                      40.0       8.6
New Foreign Sub Total  45.0       85.0      130.0
To be Identified       19.3       36.2       55.5      12.1
Grand Total        205.3      254.5      459.8     100.0
Source: Ministry of Communications and Transport and Bank estimates
G.    Foreign Funding
2.15 The proposed IDA credit of US$70.0 million would finance various components
of the proposed program. In addition, an estimated amount of U$6.5 million will be



- 28 -
made available from the Zambia Agricultural Marketing and Processing Project
(ZAMPIP) to finance part of the costs of the feeder road upgrading and accessibility
improvement components. TETAP, which is currently scheduled to be completed mid-
1998, will continue to fund the technical assistance to the feeder road section in MLGH
up to an estimated amount of US$1.0 million. On closure of the IDA credit for TETAP,
currently scheduled after one extension for June 30, 1998, the balance of this
commitment will be absorbed under the new credit for the program.
2.16  A number of donors have ongoing commitments or programs under
implementation thus: (i) African Development Bank (AfDB) for US$17.0 million for
Great East Road rehabilitation Lusaka to Luangwa Bridge; (ii) European Union (EU)
US$20.0 million for the feeder roads program in Central and Copperbelt provinces,
Kabwe-Kapiri Mposhi engineering and Chisambe district road rehabilitation; (iii)
Norway US$6.5 million for main road rehabilitation in the Southern province
(Mazabuka-Monze); (iv) Denmark US$32.0 million for Kapiri Mposhi - Serenje
rehabilitation and Luangwa Bridge rehabilitation; (v) Germany US$4.0 million for
Western and North Westem provinces, both main and feeder roads, and for Livingstone-
Sesheke engineering; and (vi) Japan US$20.0 million for the first phase of Lusaka urban
roads' rehabilitation. Other donors include for US$6.5 million for feeder road
improvement in Eastern Province which is being executed by UNCDF in collaboration
with ILO.
2. 17 Support for institutional development is from Norway and Finland by way of the
continuation of ongoing programs through 1997. Norway is expected to continue its
assistance under a new four-year program agreement to be concluded in mid-1997 for a
total of about US$20.0 million which will also cover some civil works. Denmark is
expected to discuss additional program support for priority civil works with the
Government in the later part of 1997. Extension of ongoing programs of other donors is
also likely, but has been excluded from consideration in total foreign funding. In
addition, donor support will be forthcoming through the Zambia Country Programs of
the Road Maintenance Initiative (RMI) and Rural Travel and Transport Program (RTTP)
in the respective amounts of US$0.2 million and US$0.4 million over the program.
These programs are administered by IDA and managed in Zambia by respectively the
RMI Coordinator in MCT and the RTTP Coordinator in MLGH. An IDA-administered
grant from the Japanese Policy and Human Resource Development Fund of US$0.4
million has been made available for workshops, study tours and exchange programs and
technical assistance and training.
H.   Local Funding
2.18  Local funding is to cover 100% of an increased routine maintenance program and
on average the local cost portion of the periodic maintenance program, i.e., about 40% of
total cost - it is anticipated though (and built into IDA credit disbursements arrangements,
see para 3.18) that the local portion will increase over the life of the project. In addition,
on average about 10% of the rehabilitation program costs are projected to have to come



- 29 -
from local resources. In policy terms, the Road Fund is to finance out of its revenues (i)
as a first charge, routine and periodic maintenance on the core network in good and fair
condition, (ii) as a second charge, counterpart funding required on donor grants and loans
made available for rehabilitation the program (or by the government budget where
funding is insufficient) and (iii) Road Fund running costs from July 1997 onward, which
are not to exceed 5% of the proceeds of total Road Fund revenue. Appropriate legislation
to allow for (iii) was published July 1997 as a condition of credit negotiations (see
para 5.1). The long run goal is to develop the resource base of the Road Fund to bring it
to a level sufficient to cover the entire maintenance requirement of Zambia's entire core
network. This is estimated at US$45.0 million per annum in current prices as and when
the core network would have been brought into either good or fair condition by or about
year 2007.
2.19  Government's policy is that there should be cost sharing on urban and rural
district (feeder) roads as well as on community (unclassified) roads. Local authorities
will eventually be expected to contribute to the cost of road maintenance programs once
their present revenue generation constraints are addressed under the current urban
restructuring and government decentralization exercises. It is not anticipated that the
local authorities will be in a position to make such contributions during the project period
but this will need to be formally revisited as part of the review of financing arrangements
to be carried out prior to mid-term review. Communities, in kind or in cash, will be
expected to contribute to the cost of their road programs - this is to be set at 75% for
maintenance projects and 25% for rehabilitation projects. These arrangements will be in
place from the start of the program in the targeted pilot districts (see para 2. 7) and may
be adjusted as necessary by mid-term review.
2.20 Local funding will be channeled largely through the Road Fund rather than
through any annual allocation from Government's general budget. The exception is an
estimated amount of US$14.5 million representing Government's counterpart financing
obligations on ongoing or committed donor funded projects and an estimated US$12.7
million towards the cost of new commitments. The bulk of the resources for the Road
Fund will come from the fuel levy which is currently the only steady source of financing
for road maintenance. In addition, Government has agreed per its policy letter to allocate
from fiscal 1998 to the Road Fund a portion of the proceeds of road service license fees,
international transit tolls and weighbridge fines -- all of which are currently part of the
general budget. The expected impact on the Government budget would be a loss in
annual revenues of about US$2 million if estimated at current levels of collection
efficiency. This will be more than offset by the increase in VAT revenues that will be
generated by the increase in fuel levy (see para 4.1).
2.21  The Road Fund derived revenues of about US$11.0 million in 1996 from the
payment of fuel levy. There is a need to significantly increase the revenues generated by
the fuel levy as given below in the tables on sources and uses of funds for the Road
Fund. However, any plan to do so must bear in mind the need for the increase in the levy
to be gradual so as to allow the increased user costs to be offset by improved road



- 30 -
conditions and not so large as to result in Zambia's fuel prices being much higher than in
neighboring countries. Fuel levy increases are thus calibrated so that the induced increase
in the price of fuel does not exceed 3% per annum in real US$ terms throughout the
project period. Since the levy is now calculated on an ad valorem basis, at a rate of 15%
of the wholesale price, and since the wholesale price of diesel is lower than that of petrol,
the levy on diesel is correspondingly lower. This is a positive development since there is
a greater possibility of revenue leakage on diesel - trucks have an opportunity to fill up
with cheaper diesel in neighboring countries- and cross border price elasticities are
relatively high.
Table 2-4: Sources of Road Fund Resources (US$ million)
Year               1998       1999      2000       2001      2002      Total
Revenues from levyI
(a) Diesel                     8.3      11.4       14.6       18.1      20.5       72.8
(b) Gasoline                   4.7       6.5        8.4       10.4      11.8       41.8
Sub-Total                     13.0      17.9       23.0       28.5      32.2      114.6
Vehicle license fees           0.9       1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0       4.9
Transit fees                    1.9      1.9        2.0        2.0       2.1        9.8
Weighbridge fine/fees          0.5       0.4        0.3        0.1       0.0         1.3
Total                         16.3       21.1       26.2      31.6      35.4      130.6
1/     Based on a real increase of the levy from its 1997 level of 3.75 cents/liter for petrol and 3.5c/l for diesel to
8.25c/l and 7.6c/l respectively. For a constant real wholesale price of petroleum, this represents an increase
in ad valorem rate form the current 15% to 33% by 2002. For all else constant, fuel levy would increase
from 6.1% to 12% of petrol and diesel prices.
2/      This is based on 30% of the license fees being attributed to the Road Fund which is considered conservative.
Table 2-5: Uses of Road Fund Resources (US$ million)
Year                 1998      1999      2000       2001      2002    Total
Routine Maintenance Zi           10.5       13.6       16.9     21.6       26.6    89.1
Periodic Maintenance 2'           5.0       6.4        7.3       7.0        6.4    32.3
Rehabilitation, upgrading &       0.0       0.0        0.7        1.4       0.4      2.5
access improvement
Running costs l/                  0.8        1.1        1.3       1.6        1.8     6.6
Total                             16.3     21.1       26.2      31.6       35.4    130.6
1/ Represents a ceiling of 5% of Road Fund revenues in line with Government policy. Actual costs are expected to
be below these amounts in any given year.
2/ Following ratios (rounded) will be included in performance benchmarks.
Year                 1998       1999     2000       2001      2002
Road Fund/Total
Routine and Periodic
Maintenance Requirements    %       33       40         50        60        70
Road Fund/Annual
Routine and Periodic
Maintenance Expenditure     %       65       75         80        90        95



- 31 -
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Implementation Arrangements
3.1   The project will be implemented by various authorities and agencies making the
fullest use of existing oversight, management and consultative structures. Given its
mandate for transport sector policy, MCT will retain overall responsibility for project
implementation and will appoint a Project Coordinator. A number of specific functions
outlined below will however be delegated to the NRB, including that of coordinating the
implementation of the civil works program. Roads Dept. will implement the main, trunk
and district roads program and the local authorities with the assistance of MLGH will
implement the urban and rural district roads program. The community accessibility
component will be implemented by the communities themselves with the help of the local
authorities and with technical assistance from the SRPU with financing of the RTTP.
Consultation with stakeholders impacted by project implementation will be assured by
the maintenance of structures established for this purpose under the RMI program and
under TETAP, i.e.: the Committee of Ministers under the chairmanship of the Minister of
Communications and Transport; a Project Steering Committee (PSC) at permanent
secretary level under MCT chairmanship; and the technical and financial subcommittees
of the NRB.
3.2   NRB will have the responsibility for coordinating implementation of the project,
for financial management for the project and for assembling all technical and financial
reports. NRB will approve the annual road program on the basis of the submissions made
by the various road authorities. NRB will manage the financing of road maintenance (as
now) as well as (in future) the financing for rehabilitation work under the project. The
role of existing road authorities will be focused on the preparation of longer term network
plans, annual programs for funding consideration and the implementation of the civil
works program (with the involvement of the private sector). Roads Dept. will be
responsible for establishing standards for maintaining and rehabilitating roads, for
developing road maintenance policies and for regularly updating the road data base in the
HMS. It will also be responsible for implementing rehabilitation and upgrading of trunk,
main and district roads - overall responsibility will be with the Assistant Director for
Operations with day-to-day management devolved to the contract management units
under the provincial road engineers. These units will be supplemented as necessary by
private consultants. The DISS in the MLGH will be strengthened through the infusion of
consultancy assistance on a medium term basis to provide support to local authorities in
planning road sector programs and through training for MLGH and local authority staff in
client management, who are expected to transfer their skills to the local authorities.



-32 -
Maintenance and rehabilitation of urban and rural roads remains ultimately the
responsibility of the relevant local authorities.
3.3   The NRB secretariat will be strengthened to enable it to effect its responsibilities
for ROADSIP. As a first step, the NRB is to employ three additional staff - a highway
engineer, a procurement specialist and a financial specialist - to meet these increased
responsibilities. These staff are being supported for a period of 4-6 months by short term
technical assistance funded under the IDA-administered Japanese PHRD grant. A short
term procurement specialist is helping NRB develop standard bidding documents
acceptable to IDA and other donors and assisting NRB staff on procurement management
and monitoring. Short term highway engineering and transport economics expertise has
helped to complete the analysis and preparation of the first two years core investment
program and to provide training to the new staff. For the initial two years of the program,
a management support team will be recruited composed of foreign and local consultants
to help coordinate the civil works program. Whether this arrangement would be extended
or not will be reviewed no later than the proposed mid-term review. In all events,
additional staff, expected to be up to three professionals and two support staff, may be
added to the NRB complement as implementation of the project gets underway to act as
counterparts to the project management team. Whereas the costs of the team are expected
to be funded externally, the costs of NRB staff will be recovered through the proceeds of
the Road Fund (see para 2.17)
3.4   A detailed project implementation plan (PIP) and implementation manual is under
preparation. The plan is summnarized at Annex 3-1. The draft PIP was presented to the
Bank as a condition of negotiations (para 5. 1). The PIP will be finalized and formally
adopted no later than credit effectiveness (see para 5.3). NRB is responsible for the
preparation of these documents. NRB is also responsible for managing the program
launch and for preparing the report on the completion of the program no later than
December 31, 2002. The implementation plan provides for a process of annual review of
project implementation which will take place not later than end of October each year.
The plan also provides for a mid-term review to take place not later than June 30, 2000.
3.5   The project is to be implemented over a five-year period from July 1, 1997. The
civil works program for this period has been prepared on an indicative basis in relation to
available implementation capacity in foreign and local construction industry and the
financial capacity of Zambia, and in particular of the road users (para 2.6). The program
to be comnmenced during the first two years has been defined in detail and has been
agreed by the Bank as condition of credit negotiations (see para 5.1). Consultancy
services for the design and engineering of the rehabilitation works in this program will be
tendered no later than credit effectiveness (see para 5.3). The maintenance program for
1998 will be prepared by no later than October 31, 1997 at which time tenders for
contracted work will be prepared and force account work allocated. The detailed program
for 1999, as well as the indicative program for 2000-2001, for both maintenance and
rehabilitation will be deternined no later than the annual review for 1998.



-33 -
3.6   With regard to policy and institutional reform, the Government has discussed its
objectives extensively with the Bank and has concretized these through the letter of sector
policy signed March 21, 1997 which was a condition of credit negotiations (Para 5.1).
The reform program includes both short and medium term institutional restructuring,
terms of reference for the restructured road authorities and for the key positions. The
short term institutional restructuring (strengthening the NRB) shall take place before
credit effectiveness and, based on achievement of program implementation and outcome
of the Public Service Reform Program, a realistic medium term restructuring strategy of
road authorities will be prepared at the mid-term review.
3.7   With regard to financing reforms, Government intends to take action to ensure
the value of the fuel levy is maintained in real terms and is thus regularly adjusted to
ensure funding available for maintenance does not decline over time. From fiscal 1997
fuel levy is to be expressed as a percentage of the wholesale fuel price which Government
has undertaken in its sector policy letter to review on a regular basis. Government also
intends to take the necessary steps to provide from fiscal 1998 for the deposit into the
Road Fund of international transit fees, a portion of vehicle license fees and weighbridge
fines and fees. The financing requirements for the project will in all events be reviewed
on an annual basis to ensure the annual maintenance and rehabilitation program can be
funded.
B.   Technical Assistance and Training
3.8   Technical assistance services will be required during the life of the project,
particularly in the first two years, to ensure the various executing agencies have the
capacity and know how to implement the program effectively. This technical assistance
will be strongly linked to various measures, such as locally based and overseas training,
workshops, exchange programs and study tours, aimed at knowledge transfer and
building the capacity of Zambians in road authorities in a sustainable fashion. Because of
the maintenance backlog and because of the particular requirements brought about by
institutional restructuring, additional expertise will be needed to fill gaps and expand
capacity. Terms of reference for all technical assistance expected to be required have
been developed and will be agreed with IDA prior to implementation. The technical
assistance provided to Zambia through the RMI and RTTP programs is being integrated
into the single framework of ROADSIP. Also included is technical assistance to finalize
the preparation of ROADSIP and to disseminate the program and its objectives through a
series of upfront national and provincial workshops which is being financed through a
Japanese PHRD grant administered by IDA.
3.9   Policy support. Technical assistance in three components will be provided to
MCT with the broad objective of increasing the capacity for policy analysis and policy
formulation for the roads sector: (a) a Program Advisor for a period of 24 man months to
help strengthen the ministry's policy capacity, to provide training, and to advise on the
mid-term review of the road sector institutional and financing strengthening measures to
be taken; (b) technical assistance for the development of a road safety program, including



- 34-
requisite institutional strengthening and financing reform, in the amount of 12 man
months of which half is expected to be local consultancy; and (c) technical assistance to
help Government revise the legal framework for the roads and road traffic management,
including Cap 464, in the amount of 12 man months with again half expected to be
provided by local consultancy.
3.10  Institutional development. Technical assistance will be provided to the respective
agencies to strengthen capacity in road management and financing. For NRB, a
management support team will be required to help create capacity in a number of areas
which will be critical to the program's effectiveness in a total amount of 108 man
months, i.e.: 36 man months for a highway engineer/team leader; 18 man months for
contracts management and procurement assistance; 18 months for financial management;
and 24 months for short term specialist assistance in training, quality control and in labor-
based maintenance methods. For Roads Dept., technical assistance will be required to
support the restructuring program and is envisaged to cover the following areas: 24 man
months for the start up of the environmental management unit with particular emphasis
on environmental analysis and monitoring; 12 man months of support to the restructuring
of the plant and vehicle pool and to improving equipment management and maintenance;
6 man months of assistance to the HMS unit for the further development of the data base
on the core network; and 6 man months on the development of selection criteria and
analytical tools. For MLGH, technical assistance will help further development of the
capacity in DISS for policy and planning in the roads sector and help strengthen local
authority capacity for roads and will specifically cover 12 man months of consultant
services for the development of urban road management systems. This will complement
the assistance already provided under TETAP for the development of capacity for rural
(feeder) road planning.
3.11  Implementation support. Short term technical assistance of 6 months will be
required to help strengthen the NRB to prepare the necessary program documents and to
assist to launch the program (see para 3.2). For Roads Dept., technical assistance
through two experts each for 24 months will be required to assist the contract
management units to be established in each provincial road engineer office. Consultancy
support for DISS in MLGH, a continuation of what has initially been provided for under
TETAP, to plan and administer road maintenance and rehabilitation for the rural (feeder)
road program is estimated as 24 man months. Provision is also made under Engineering
Services for consulting services for the preparation of feasibility studies, design,
economic evaluation, preparation and evaluation of tenders and supervision of contracts
estimated as 6% of the total estimated costs of civil works.
3.12  Under the community accessibility program, required technical assistance is
mostly to be provided locally with a view to strengthening the capability of communities
to manage their own programs. A roads engineer will be provided on a full time basis at
the SRPU to oversee the program and supervise the technical support to be provided in
the field to the communities. Allowance has also been made in project costing for short
term consultancy and training in participatory techniques, financial management and



- 35 -
labor based methods. For the development of intermediate means of transport (IMT), the
required technical assistance will be contracted out to a local NGO who will be expected
to provide project management, field facilitation and technical services. Under the
construction industry development program, technical assistance will be provided to help
the Ministry of Works and Supply and the NCC in the areas of contractor registration,
tendering procedures and streamlining of the legal framework for contracting.
C.     Procurement
3.13   Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized below in Table 3.1.
Procurement of IDA-financed goods and works will be carried out in accordance with
Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loan and IDA Credits (January 1995, Revised
January and August 1996). Selection and appointment of consultants will be in
accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers (January 1997). Goods, works and consultants' services financed by
other donors would be procured in accordance with their respective guidelines.
Table 3-1: Summary of Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)
Items                     ICB        NCB         Others      NIF        Total
A. Civil Works
1. Routine Maintenance                  0.0        0.0         0.0        70.1        70.1
2. Periodic Maintenance               5.4 (3.6)    4.4 (3.2)  2.5 (1.5)    62.1     74.4 (8.3)
3 Rehabilitation                     33.5 (30.3)   5.1 (4.7)    0.0       106.4    145.0 (35.0)
4. Feeder Road Upgrading              8.0 (7.4)    3.3 (3.0)    0.0       22.5      33.8 (10.4)
5. Accessibility Improvement             0.0     4.5 (4.2)      0.0       19.5      24.0 (4.2)
6. Community Transport Infrastructure    0.0        0.0       2.5 (2.1)    2.8       5.3 (2.1)
B. Goods                                0.6 (0.5)    0.6 (0.5)    0.0        0.0        1.2 (1.0)
C. Consultants and Training
1. Intermediate Means of Transport      0.0         0.0       0.6 (0.6)   0.4        1.0 (0.6)
2. Construction Industry Development     0.0        0.0       1.6 (1.6)    1.2       2.8 (1.6)
3. Policy Support                        0.0        0.0       1.0 (1.0)   0.0        1.0 (1.0)
4. Implementation Support                0.0        0.0       1.4 (1.4)    0.0       1.4 (1.4)
5. Engineering Services                  0.0        0.0       3.9 (3.9)    16.9     20.8 (3.9)
6. Institutional Development             0.0        0.0       0.5 (0.5)   2.9        3.4 (0.5)
Total                  47.5 (41.8)  17.9 (15.6)   14.0(12.8)    304.8    384.2 (70.0)
Note: Figures in brackets are the respective amounts financed by IDA
-- NIF is NOT IDA-financed.
3.14 Civil works will be carried out under contract as detailed below. This is with the
exception of approximately US$9.0 million which will be under force account but which
will not be financed by IDA. Upgrading and rehabilitation will be carried out under
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures for large contracts in excess of
US$1.0 million and otherwise under NCB, procedures for which have been reviewed at
appraisal and which have been brought into line with IDA requirements with the help of
technical assistance to NRB. A portion of periodic maintenance will be also under ICB,
with bulking up of the required work in the first two to three years to help address the



- 36 -
backlog. Prequalification of contractors will be required for contracts valued in excess of
US$10 million. NCB contracts would be open to local and foreign firms up to a
maximum of US$1.0 million per contract. The NCB contracts would be packaged in a
variety of sizes to promote competition and provide incentive for local firms to compete
for work. Goods would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding, with use of ICB
for US$100,000 or above and NCB below this threshold.
3.15  For routine and periodic maintenance limited provision will be made for direct
contracting to encourage the development of recently trained small local contractors.
Under IDA financing, for periodic maintenance, these contractors will be eligible for only
one direct contract upon graduation from training of up to US$50,000 equivalent,
provided that they have not been previously awarded an ICB or NCB contract and
provided all such contracts and rates are subject to prior review by IDA. The average
estimated contract size of the routine maintenance is up to 10 km and for periodic
maintenance is up to 15 km. A ceiling of US$1.5 million for these contracts has been
established. A specific procurement procedure will be followed for community transport
infrastructure, that is rehabilitation and maintenance of community roads and bridges.
This procedure will be that adopted under the Second Social Recovery Project and
approved by IDA for infrastructure (microprojects) subcomponents, i.e., individual
contracts of an estimated value of US$50,000 equivalent or less to be procured on the
basis of at least three quotations from qualified community-based contractors up to an
aggregate amount of US$2 million. When sufficient community-based contracts are not
available, contracts may be awarded directly on the basis of standard rates to be agreed
with IDA.
3.16 For consulting services, the normal method of procurement will be on the basis of
quality and cost based selection (QCBS) from a short list of international and national
consultants. The exceptions are anticipated to be as follows: QCBS on the basis of a
short list of national consultants for engineering design and supervision of smaller civil
works and for consultancy services for the community accessibility component for up to
US$200,000 per contract; quality based selection (QBS) for the management support
team for NRB up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million; single source selection
where preexisting contracts under TETAP are extended for financing under the proposed
credit for strengthening MLGH and Roads Dept. institutional capacity and for IMT
studies up to an aggregate amount of US$500,000 and for engineering supervision
services where the detailed design has been carried out in a satisfactory manner by the
same firm; and individual consultants in case of components of the policy studies
program up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000.
3.17 Prior review thresholds will be US$100,000 for goods, US$250,000 for works,
US$100,000 for consulting firms, and US$50,000 for individual consultants. The first
five contracts let under NCB procedure will be subject to prior review regardless of
contract amount. For direct contracts, IDA will be provided a copy of specification and
the draft contract for prior review in each case. Procurement under the program will be
the responsibility of the relevant executing agencies with NRB carrying out a review and



- 37 -
support role. A procurement management system will be established in NRB as a result
of the institutional capacity building program (see para 3.10) and appropriate training for
staff will be provided. NRB has developed standard forms of contract and standard
specifications for NCB for direct contracting and for labor based work. Agreement has
been reached with the National Tender Board that responsibility for these tenders subject
to an upper limit of US$100,000 (and later be increased up to US$600,000) will rest with
the NRB and the executing agencies. All ICB works and goods as well as consultants'
services' tenders will go through the established procedures. Consideration will be given
no later than mid-term review to further decentralization of the procurement review
process and strengthening the role of NRB.
D.   Disbursement
3.18 The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by March 31, 2003 as shown below.
The estimated disbursement schedule (Annex 3-2) is based on the detailed
implementation plan.
Table 3-2: Projected Disbursements Fiscal Year Ending June (US$ million)
Year      1997    1998  . 1999    2000    2001    2002  . 2003
Annual         0       6        9       14       25       15       1
Cumulative     0       6        15      29       54       69      70
% of Credit i0%        9%      21%     41%      77/s    99%      100%
The proceeds of the credit are expected to be disbursed in accordance with the allocation
by category shown below, over a period of 6 years. A provision has been made for
retroactive financing up to a ceiling of SDR 2 million (4% of the proposed credit arnount)
in respect of road rehabilitation projects for which tenders were let prior to negotiations
and for which contracts are expected to be signed prior to credit signature, but after
August 15, 1997.



-38 -
Table 3-3: Disbursement Categories
Amount of   % of Expenditure
the Credit  to be Financed By
Category                       Allocated         IDA
1. Civil Works for Periodic Maintenance               2.7             90
.__ ___  2.7         60
2.4            30
2. Civil Works for Rehabilitation of selected roads  33.7             90
3. Civil Works for Upgrading feeder roads             10.0            90
4. Civil Works for Accessibility improvement of feeder roads  4.0     90
5. Civil Works for Community Transport Infrastructure  2.0            75
6. Equipment, Vehicles and Materials                  1.0             90
7. Consultants Services and Training                  8.7             100
8. Unallocated                                        2.7         as disbursed
Total                                                70.0
3.19 All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit would be fully documented
except for: (i) expenditures for civil works including community roads with an estimated
value of US$250,000 or less; (ii) expenditures for goods of US$100,000 or less; and
(iii) expenditures on consulting services of US$100,000 or less for consulting firms and
US$50,000 or less for individual consultants for which reimbursement would be made
against statements of expenditure (SOE). Supporting documentation for expenditures
claimed against SOEs will be retained by NRB for review by periodic IDA supervision
missions and by external auditors.
3.20 To facilitate disbursement and reduce the volume of withdrawal applications, two
Special Accounts will be opened in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. The Special Account A would be managed by NRB. The authorized
allocation to cover four months of expenditures is set at US$3.0 million. Upon
effectiveness the amount of US$1.5 million, 50% of the authorized allocation will be
deposited into the Special Account. The remaining balance will be made available as
disbursements reach SDR 7 million. The Special Account B would be managed by
SRPU for the sole purpose of facilitating the community transport infrastructure
component of the project. The authorized allocation for this account will be US$0.5
million of which 50% will be made available on declaration of credit effectiveness and
the balance as disbursements reach SDR 1.5 million.
3.21   A condition of disbursement for expenditures under the community accessibility
component will be that operational guidelines to be followed in approving and disbursing
grants to beneficiary associations as well as a memorandum of understanding setting out
the roles of all implementing agencies for this component will have been prepared and
agreed to by IDA (para 5.4).



- 39 -
E.   Auditing and Accounting
3.22 The NRB will be responsible for coordinating project accounting, maintaining
overall records, producing an aggregated and consolidated project account, managing
disbursements and ensuring timely audited accounts. The NRB has been assuring this
function under TETAP in a satisfactory manner but will require increased capacity to
handle the additional volume of work under ROADSIP. This will be managed through
the additional of one full time qualified accountant and the provision of a financial
specialist on the management support team (see para 3.10). The specialist will help
develop accounting systems and procedures which will however remain on a cash rather
than an accrual basis.
3.23  Annual audits of the consolidated project account and subsidiary statements of
project activity undertaken by other road authorities will be carried out by external
auditors satisfactory to IDA. Under the Social Recovery Project, a separate account will
be prepared and audited on an annual basis for the community transport infrastructure
component. Terms of reference for these audits contain a component of technical audit to
provide independent verification of the achievement of physical targets. It has been
agreed at negotiations that audits will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end
of the respective financial year. Audits will include a separate auditor's opinion on the
Special Accounts and use of SOE procedure. Per terms of reference, a management letter
will be submitted to IDA with each audit report. Audits will be carried out by an
appropriately qualified firm.
F.    Monitoring and Reporting
3.24 NRB will be responsible for preparing monthly reports on the physical and
financial performance of the program against target. Proposed monitoring indicators are
at Annex 3-3. These have been reviewed at appraisal and have been agreed as a condition
of credit negotiations (para 5. 1). These reports are to be submitted, in the first instance,
to MCT for discussion and action as required. In the second instance, these reports will
be consolidated into a quarterly report which will be widely disseminated to IDA, the
donor community and the various local stakeholders. The content of the quarterly report
will be included in the PIP. NRB will also be responsible for producing annual reports of
achievements to be submitted one month before the Annual Review (see para 3.4). A
mid-term report will be produced no later than two months in advance of the Mid-term
Review. NRB will produce within six months of the closing of the IDA credit an
implementation completion report. Independent technical audits will be carried out on a
periodicity and according to terms of reference both satisfactory to IDA in order to verify
physical progress and to assess quality.



- 40 -
G.   Supervision
3.25  Overall, supervision will amount on average per annum to a total of 25 staffweeks
of field supervision and an additional 20 weeks for review of documents, reports, etc. at
headquarters and in the resident mission. This will require an annual budget of about
US$150,000 which is reflected in the business plan for Zambia. A detailed plan for the
field supervision of the program, including a summary of IDA requirements, is included
at Annex 3-4.



-41 -
4.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Project Benefits
4.1   The project will help assure that there is adequate road infrastructure to underpin
Zambia's continuing economic reform effort. The program is affordable in terms of the
total resources available to Zambia for the sector and is reasonable in terms of the size of
Zambia's road network. The amount to be allocated to roads out of total investment is
within international norms. The project investment is equivalent to 1.9% of projected
GDP for Zambia, of which about 1.2% is represented by rehabilitation. This compares to
the figure of 2.2% derived from a study of about 33 developing countries undertaken in
the 1980s. An increasing portion of the local funding for this investment will come from
direct road user charges channeled through the Road Fund rather than through general
taxation. This has the benefit of ensuring scarce public funds are effectively utilized and
that the road users take on a steadily increasing proportion of total local funding with the
largest contribution to come from the most frequent users of roads in terms of kilometers
driven (through fuel levy payments) and from heavy vehicle owners (road service license
fee). As VAT of 20% is currently levied on top of the fuel levy, Government finances
benefit from increasing the fuel levy. This fiscal benefit is expected to be of the order of
US$12.7 million equivalent in 1996 prices over the period 1997-2002. This partly offsets
the loss of general tax revenue through the transfer of road user charges proceeds to the
Road Fund of US$9.8 million and the incremental cost to the budget of US$12.6 million
for the counterpart funding of the project for a net fiscal impact of negative US$9.7
million.
4.2   The project will help address deficiencies in the road network, increase the
proportion of the network in good condition, and improve sector management and
financing. At the national level, economic benefits will more than offset the direct
negative fiscal impact through the creation of higher taxable incomes from reduced
transport costs. The direct benefit to the road users of improvement in road conditions is
considerable and are expected to outweigh the financial cost occasioned by the higher
road user charges to finance road maintenance. Given the competitive structure of the
road transport industry, transport cost savings are very likely to be passed on to
consumers in terms of lower final product prices. A recent study by FEDHAUL has
indicated an additional cost of US$14,000 equivalent per annum per heavy vehicle for
incremental repairs occasioned by roads in poor condition. Given the current size of the
truck fleet and the current condition of Zambia's roads, meeting the project objective for
the improvement in the portion of roads in good condition is estimated to generate a gain
of about US$30.0 million or about 1% of GDP in avoided vehicle maintenance costs.
4.3   The methodology of assessing the benefits of the main roads and feeder roads
components of the project and the results of the economic analysis are set out in Annex 4-



-42 -
1. The basis for prioritizing main road subprojects will be economic rate of return (ERR)
subject to a threshold value of 12% representing the estimated opportunity cost for capital
in Zambia. For subprojects identified for the first two years program, ERRs are in the
range 12% to 42% with a weighted average of 21%. The estimates have been constructed
on the basis of HMS input data, determining the most cost effective rehabilitation option
with benefits representing vehicle operating cost (VOC) savings. Cost benefit streams
have been valued using economic prices, adjusting for duties and taxes included in
financial prices. Since the exchange rate is market determined and cost composition is
similar for costs and benefits, no conversion factor has been applied. The ERR estimates
are considered conservative and represent lower bound values given that no other benefits
- such as time savings and generated traffic - have been included and an assumed traffic
growth rate of 3% per annum has been used. Sensitivity analysis has been carried out for
different forecasts of traffic growth and a switching value analysis has been done for
capital cost variation. The first two years program contains the rehabilitation of a number
of sections of the Great North Road which assures international road traffic links with
Tanzania and is thus of strategic economic importance. The economic benefit arising
from avoiding the complete loss of any section of this road is likely to be considerable
and certainly greater than the VOC benefits. For the Chinsali-Nakonde section of this
road, the ERR for any rehabilitation or maintenance alternative is less than 12% on the
basis of VOC savings from existing traffic, but has been estimated at 28% when account
is taken of the economic benefit from generated traffic estimated as the equivalent of the
current traffic carried by the TAZARA railway.
4.4   Feeder roads have been prioritized on the basis of multi criteria analysis (MCA),
under which an important weight is given to agricultural production potential and access
of the rural poor to markets and services and under which an important role is assigned to
choices made by affected communities in each district The methodology has been
developed with the help of consultants under TETAP and has now been formally adopted
by Government as the basis for the subproject selection under the project. Through the
TETAP-funded road inventory, a primary core feeder road network has been determined
on a district by district basis. Specified economic and social criteria have been applied to
determine a priority ranking of primary feeder roads for each district. This prioritization
informs discussions which will take place on an annual basis involving communities,
district councils, MLGH staff and other stakeholders as to how the available resources
will be allocated among the priorities - for example the tradeoffs between allocating
resources to upgrading a few roads as opposed to improving accessibility on a larger
number of roads will be discussed and agreed at community level and will not be
centrally determined. For roads selected for full improvement, an "ex ante" and "ex post"
analysis will be undertaken to determine the net economic benefit.
4.5   A major project benefit will be job creation through the development of increased
opportunities for the local contracting and consulting industries. The Government's
medium-term goal for ROADSIP is 30,000 new jobs - it is expected that by 2002 about
14,000 new job opportunities will have been created thus. Other benefits of the program
would include increased marketed agricultural output as a result of the feeder road



- 43 -
component, improved access in rural areas to health and education facilities and human
resource development which will complement the policy and institutional building
components, and increased active participation of local communities in decision making
about road infrastructure.
B.    Key Performance Indicators
4.6   Improving the quality of information on the road sector and assuring that it is
effectively used to improve decision making, including but not limited to the allocation of
scarce financial resources, is a key benefit anticipated from the project. Key indicators of
successful project implementation will include inter alia: (a) efficient service delivery by
increasing number of kilometers of roads rehabilitated and then regularly maintained; (b)
improving service quality by lowering road transport unit costs and vehicle operating
costs; (c) sustainability of the road maintenance efforts by increasing road user charges
devoted to maintenance; (d) strengthening of local construction industry by increasing
the volume of work offered; (e) reducing poverty by creating job opportunities for both
skilled and unskilled workers ; and (f) increasing the percentage of classified roads in
good or fair condition. These are to be included in the PIP. IDA will focus on a subset of
these indicators designed to measure the critical success factors for implementation
success of all project components in terms of both qualitative and qualitative
improvements - these are given in Annex 3-3 and will be reviewed on a regular basis by
IDA and Government. (See para 3.23). Progress in the institutional reforms would be
monitored through completed studies, preparation of time-based action plans based on the
recommendation of the studies, and monitoring the realization of action plans through
regular progress reports which will be submitted on a quarterly basis to IDA.
C.   Poverty Reduction and Employment Generation
4.7   The project is expected to have a significant impact on poverty reduction and
includes specific targeted interventions particularly in the rural areas, through feeder road
rehabilitation and maintenance which will help reduce transport costs, increase mobility
and increase farm gate prices for small scale farmers. The project's initial focus is
expected to include three provinces, Northern, Luapula and Eastern, where 50% of the
core poor of Zambia live, as well as Western province where isolation and poor rural
access are particular acute and are major contributory factors to high poverty levels. This
is consistent with Government's development objective of reducing poverty, inter alia
through improving the income generating potential of the poor by enhancing their access
to productive resources. The project component dealing with the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of community (undesignated) roads will help develop participatory
approaches to road planning and maintenance which will empower poor communities.
Better rural district (feeder) roads and community roads are expected to help improve
food aid distribution in the event of future drought or hardship in the rural areas - poorly
maintained roads are recognized by NGOs and community groups to have been a major
stumbling block to the success of relief efforts in the recent past - and facilitate in good



- 44 -
years the marketing of agricultural surpluses. A significant number of new jobs will be
created through the project, especially as a result of the development of small scale labor
based contractors to compete for work on the urban and rural district feeder roads. In
order to measure progress on this front, it is proposed that two poverty reduction impact
assessments be undertaken during the life of the project and according to terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA - one prior to mid-term review and one within 6 months
prior to project completion.
D.   Development of Local Contractors
4.8   The project seeks to address all three current sets of problems of the construction
and consulting industry, i.e., financial, technical and Government procedures. In terms of
financial issues, the project will ensure timely and prompt payments to the contractors -
specific standards have been set and these will be monitored. Stable cash flow to the
Road Fund will ensure that the contracts are not suspended or terminated before
completion and the contractors will have the chance to better plan, allocate and utilize
their resources. This should result in reduction of costs, as has already been demonstrated
in the first two years of the operation of the NRB, and should enable development of
local contractors who can compete with the other regional and international bidders. It is
expected that, by the end of the project in 2002, there should be up to 300 contractors
active in routine and periodic maintenance and up to 70 contractors for rehabilitation
projects. The current turnover of the locally based contractors is about US$12.5 million,
whereas the capacity is estimated at US$25.0 million per year. The amount of work
available to the local contracting industry will rise during the project, from US$12.0
million in 1997 to US$28.0 million in 2002 expressed in 1996 prices. It is thus expected
that this capacity will be better utilized and further expanded during the life of the project.
4.9   Conventional civil work methods in Zambia had been equipment-intensive.
Construction projects were often managed by expatriates. The program aims at a
different approach that will seek to create incentives for use of labor-based methods for
road works and encourage a larger role for locally-based contractors and consultants.
Compared to the equipment based methods, labor-based methods can more effectively
mobilize domestic resources and can save foreign exchange. Labor-based methods can
be readily acquired by unskilled people and can be disseminated across a wide area since
are not dependent on heavy machinery with limited availability and enable road works to
be more easily performed in remote areas where unemployment is a prevailing problem.
Training to be provided under the program will help increase the productivity of small
scale contractors. Opportunities will be offered to retrenchees arising from the
restructuring of Roads Dept. as well as to contract managers within public service and to
local consultants. Upon graduation, contractors will be given work opportunity through
direct contract to demonstrate skills and experience acquired through training. (See para
3.15). After graduation and work training, the small scale contractors will be encouraged
to compete for further work through provision for small packaged contracts.



- 45 -
4.10  Under the project, the use of a standardized national competitive bidding
document is intended to facilitate the participation of local contractors. Improved
procurement management in the sector is expected to reduce delays, in particular with
regard to processing time for bids and for payments. In addition, for labor based works
under direct contract, a simplified document will help inexperienced contractors to more
easily manage their work.
E.   Environmental Impact
4.11  The project is focused on maintenance and rehabilitation of the road network.
Upgrading is expected to amount to less than 8% of the total cost of civil works. There
will be no construction of new roads other than a very limited amount of bridge and track
construction under the community accessibility component. Resettlement and vulnerable
minorities' plans are not anticipated for any subprojects envisaged under the project, and
not at all in the case of works already identified for the first two years program. The
adverse environmental impact is thus not considered likely to be major and the project
has accordingly been rated Category B.
4.12 An environmental analysis has been carried out and an environmental mitigation
plan prepared in conformity with the requirements of OD 4.1 on Environmental
Assessment for Category B programs. The work was carried out by a local consultant
working within the framework of the national task force which prepared ROADSIP. The
analysis was submitted to Government and to the Bank for review in June 1996 and
accepted with some minor revisions as a basis for an action plan for improved
environmental management in the roads sector. The analysis identified fourteen areas of
main environmental concern and has specified a range of measures to be taken. Out of
these fourteen, five have been highlighted for specific attention, i.e., destruction of
wildlife habitats and biodiversity; increased soil erosion leading to river and stream
siltation; soil and water contamination through chemical, oil and fuel spillage; increased
deforestation through road improvement and greater road usage; and disruption of
traditional lifestyles and increased sexually transmitted diseases.
4.13  The mitigation plan is part of a proposed environmental management program
which is intended to raise capacity in the road sector to address both immediate and likely
future environmental concerns. A environmental management working committee,
including the local consultant, has been tasked from September 1996 with the finalization
of this plan. The committee has made very good progress and has been made more
effective by drawing in private and public sector representation from a variety of
organizations, including ECZ. The plan includes four elements critical both to the
development of capacity and to building linkages between the sector program and
national environmental policy and guidelines, i.e., establishment of an environmental
management unit to be housed initially in the Roads Department with external funding
for technical assistance and training during the first two years of operation; development
of road sector environmental standards and guidelines, including review and
strengthening of the environmental clauses in use in NCB procurement documentation;



- 46 -
carrying out environmental assessments on specific road improvement projects on a
selective basis; and carrying out monitoring and evaluation activity to ensure compliance
with environmental guidelines during the construction phase of projects. The
aforementioned committee will serve as a steering committee for the program during the
first two years of pilot operation.
F.    Sustainability
4.14   Clarified institutional roles, improved management structures and adequate
funding for road maintenance are key factors for sustainability. The project is expected to
enhance sustainability by addressing these factors in a coherent and effective manner.
Establishing an appropriate sector policy framework supported by strong and effective
institutions is the ultimate goal of the program. This will facilitate an improvement in the
quality of planning and programming in the roads sector. Given its revised status, NRB
is expected to have greater freedom to offer the terms and conditions which will attract
and keep qualified Zambian staff and to contract out services as far as possible. Road
financing will be addressed in such a way to ensure greater regularity and predictability
of financial flows to the sector which should reduce the fiscal burden and place greater
reliance on road user charges through the Road Fund to finance road expenditures. This
greater predictability, associated with a steady rate of increase in the resources made
available for road maintenance, are expected to create a sustainable market for road
construction services that will stimulate the creation of new small business and new jobs.
The participatory nature of program preparation, the involvement of the private sector in
the management of NRB, augur well for a high degree of program ownership on the part
of all Zambian stakeholders.
G.    Project Risks
4.1]5 The Government's program is an ambitious one, though its scope and objectives
are appropriate for bringing about a real improvement in the quality of road infrastructure
in Zambia. There are, however, substantial risks to be addressed. Under the project,
these risks have been allocated appropriately and mitigated to the extent possible. The
major outstanding risks are institutional and financial. On the institutional side,
considerable effort has gone into designing strengthening and restructuring measures
which attract the support of all stakeholders. There is a risk that these measures will not
succeed in improving sector management performance to the extent expected which could
in turn lead to delays in project implementation. The restructuring of existing
institutions, in particular of Roads Dept., depends on the effectiveness of the PSRP in
creating the conditions, including pay and incentives, which will facilitate the
professionalization of government services. In the event that these measures fall short,
Government anticipates in its letter of sector policy that alternative strategies which
including the acceleration of the pace of commercialization and rationalization of road
sector institutions will be considered. Therefore, the effectiveness of the new institutional
arrangements are to be assessed after each of the first two annual project reviews and any



- 47 -
adjustments will be made by the time of mid-term review. In addition to institutional
structure, it must be recognized that human and material capacity remains limited and this
weakness may be fully addressed only over the medium term. In the initial years of the
project, this constraint will have to be addressed by technical assistance and training, the
need for which is to be reassessed by mid-term review.
4.16   On the financial side, the risk is that the project will not be affordable and that
Government will not be able to raise the necessary local funding. Most local funding
will, however, come through road user charges and not through general tax revenues -
road users have expressed a willingness, in a general sense, to pay higher charges in the
interest of financing a larger road program than hitherto. These funding arrangements do
not fully mitigate the financial risk for the funding of local costs of the project -firstly,
the Government may not be in a position to agree to the projected increase in fuel levy
and road user charges and secondly the flow of funds, which is still through the
government budget process, could be delayed or diverted in the event of a deterioration in
fiscal and macroeconomic performance. There is a related risk of a shortfall on external
financing given that known new commitments for the road sector are less than the total
anticipated requirements for the project. These risks are being partially mitigated by
ensuring that the scope and objectives of the first two-year program are tailored to current
known local and external resource availability and adjusting the scope and objectives of
the outer years by mid-term review as a function whether this availability will actually
increase as projected or not. High and low case scenarios for the civil works program
have been developed as a function partly of the uncertainty about future financing levels
(see para 2.06). The financing implications of these scenarios is given below. The low
case represents the level to which total financing could fall without any further network
deterioration.
Table 4-1: Local Revenue Requirements of Various Scenarios
Required Local Required Road  Required G'mt  Required Max.
Total cost   Financing   Fund Revenues/i   Funding      Levy/2
Case      (US$, Mns)  (US$, Mns)    (US$, Mns)    (US$Mns)  (% Wholesale Price)
1. Low         372.45        123.89      100.45           23.44           0.23
2. Medium       459.80       157.78       130.62          27.16           0.33
3. High         617.75       188.63       151.53           37.10          0.43
1/ Fuel levy, international transit fees, weighbridge fines, and 30% of Road license fees
2/ This shows the level the levy needs to reach by 2002, assuming a constant domestic wholesale price
of fuel (K325/1 for petrol and K300/1 for diesel in 1996 Kwacha). For a 3% per annum decrease in
fuel consumption the equivalent amounts would be 30%, 42% and 55%.
4.17   A substantial part of local funding is from fuel levy proceeds. The fuel levy is
from fiscal 1997 onward calculated as percentage of the wholesale fuel price and thus
fuel levy proceeds are sensitive to changes in both fuel prices and fuel consumption. The
above analysis assumes that fuel prices in real local currency terms are constant, since the
fall in international fuel prices is expected to be of the same magnitude as the projected



- 48 -
depreciation of the Kwacha. It also assumes fuel consumption to grow at 3% per year in
line with expected GDP (and road traffic) growth. However, the relationship between
GDP and fuel consumption has historically been quite volatile and there is a risk that fuel
consumption could fall, thus reducing the expected proceeds form the fuel levy in any
given year. This risk, as well as a worst case scenario of a 4% p.a. increase in domestic
wholesale fuel prices have been modeled and are summarized below. To maintain
proceeds at the level anticipated for the year 2002 under the worst combination of
circumstances (4% p.a. increase in wholesale fuel prices, and a 3% p.a. decrease in
consumption), the fuel levy would have to reach the equivalent of US$0.105/1 for petrol
and US$0.097/1 for diesel. This is not considered to be unsustainable, although it is
certainly higher than the expected US$0.082/1 for petrol and US$0.076/1 for diesel if
wholesale prices remain constant and consumption increases.
Table 4-2: Fuel Levy Proceeds: Risk Analysis Summary
Fuel Consumption    Fuel
Increasing By 3%   Consumption
p.a.      Decreasing By
3%p.a.
2002          2002     l
Levy required to finance Medium Case Scenario:                         l
Petrol (k/i)                                 107            136
Diesel (k/l)                                 99             126
Levy as % wholesale price
For Wholesale Price of Fuel Constant        33%            42%
For Wholesale Price of Fuel Increasing by 4% p.a.  28%     36%



- 49 -
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
A.   Agreements
5.1   Prior to negotiations, the Government presented evidence satisfactory to IDA that
the following have been accomplished:
(i)  A letter outlining the Govermnent's road sector policies and road sector
investment program (paras 1.36, 3.6).
(ii) The publication of legislation providing for NRB powers to hire and pay for
its own staff (para 2.17, 3.2).
(iii) The draft project implementation plan and performance monitoring
indicators (para 3.4).
(iv) The proposed investment program for the first two years of the project
(para 2.6).
(v)  The selection criteria for the inclusion of roads in the proposed investment
program (para 2.6).
5.2   Prior to Board Presentation, the Government has taken the following actions
satisfactory to IDA:
(i)  The establishment of the environmental management unit and the adoption
of environmental standards and guidelines (para 4.12).
(ii) The issuance of a request for consultant proposals for the management
support team in NRB (para 3.2).
5.3   Prior to Effectiveness, the Government will take the following actions satisfactory
to IDA:
(i)  The finalization of the project implementation plan and performance
indicators (para 3.4).



- 50 -
(ii) The employment of consultants for the management support team in NRB
(para 3.2).
(iii) The issuance of tenders for the engineering of all rehabilitation work to be
carried out during the first two years of the project (para 3.5).
5.4   Prior to credit disbursement on the community accessibility component, the
Government will provide operational guidelines and a memorandum of understanding on
the roles of the implementing agencies to be satisfactory to IDA (para 3.4).
B.   Assurances Provided at Negotiations
5.5   The Government provided assurances at negotiations that it will:
(a)  Carry out the project in accordance with the implementation plan, including
a mid-term review no later than June 30, 2000 and annual reviews
(commencing 1998) no later the October 31 of the preceding year, and
utilizing reporting procedures and performance monitoring indicators
acceptable to IDA (para 3.1).
(b) Maintain project accounting consistent with internationally accepted
standards, and submit annual audited financial reports no later than 6 months
after the end of each fiscal year according to terms of reference agreed with
IDA and maintain appropriate technical auditing standards acceptable to
IDA (paras 3.21, 3.22, 3.23).
(c)  Carry out policy studies, engineering feasibility and design studies,
institutional development and capacity building in implementing agencies
per the project and according to terms of reference to be reviewed with and
agreed to by IDA (paras 3.9, 3.10, 3.11).
(d) Adopt procurement procedures acceptable to IDA including the use of the
Bank standard bidding documents for works and goods under ICB and for
consultants services, the use of an agreed local bidding document for civil
works under NCB, and the use of a standard simplified document for the
procurement of small works and for directly contracted works (paras 3.5,
3.17).
(e)  Review the revenue requirements for the Road Fund on an annual basis and
utilize the proceeds of the Road Fund exclusively for routine and periodic
maintenance costs, for the counterpart contribution of donor funded projects
approved under the project, and for the operating costs of NRB not
exceeding 5% of total Road Fund proceeds in any year (para 3.7).



- 51 -
(f)  Adopt and maintain agreed selection criteria for the inclusion of road
projects in the program and to agree not to undertake any works outside of
the project (para 2.6).
(g) Assure the continued function of the Highway Management System (HMS)
and the Roads Training School (RTS) throughout the life of the project and
to provide all the necessary funding for the respective programs to be agreed
on an annual basis with IDA no later than the date of the annual review
(paras 1.19, 1.27, 2.8, 2.9); and
(h) Carry out an action plan to improve road safety (See para 2.9).
(i)  Prepare and submit for agreement with IDA the operational guidelines and a
memorandum of understanding on the roles of the implementing agencies
for the carrying out of the community accessibility component of the project
(para 2.7).
C.   Recommendation
5.6   On the basis of the above actions, conditions and agreements, the proposed
Program would be suitable for support from an IDA credit of SDR 51.5 million (US$70.0
million equivalent).



- 52 -
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PROJECT TO SUPPORT A
ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Definitions of Terms
Terms                                                                       Meaning
Routine                       Regular (often daily) maintenance activities carried out on the road including grading, clearing
Maintenance                   of drains, pothole patching, vegetation control, painting of signs and roadside furniture,
sweeping and major repairs.
l..............  .............................................................................I......................................................................................................
Periodic                      Maintenance activities which are carried out a number of times during the life of the road but
Maintenance                   with intervals of more than one year between them  (usually 3-7 years apart). This includes
resealing with single surface dressing or premix and painting of shoulders on paved roads and
regravelling to restore depleted  on gravel roads as well as spot repair for up to 10%  of the road
surface area.
Upgrading                     This is the work required to raise the standard of an existing road to a higher class of
engineered road, e.g. converting a gravel road to a paved road.
...........................................  ............................................................................................................................................................................... .....
Rehabilitation                This is work done in scarifying existing pavement by replacing poor base and sub-base in order
to restore to original design; and in case of paved roads: Resurfacing  (three options linked
with, roughness, rutting depth and extent and nature of cracks): slurry seal (superficial cracks,
few  ruts); single or double bituminous surface dressing; and premix carpetloverlay of
appropriate thickness. Options include spot repair in excess of 10%  of the road surface area
Reconstruction                A  category of rehabilitation involving replacement of below  standard parts of the road
structure. This can include scarifying existing pavement resurfacing (slurry soil, single or
double surface existing, premix). surface ripping up and recompacting pavement layers,
addition of new  pavement layers including strengthening and widening, reshaping etc.
Generally this follows the existing alignment but can include improvements to the vertical and
horizontal alignment isolated section. For unpaved roads reconstruction involves regravelling
to appropriate thickness.
..................................... ....................................................................................................................................................................................
New  Construction             These are the activities required to construct a new  road when no road exists.
, ...................        ... ..................................................................................................................................................................................
Designated Roads              This term  refers to legal declaration of the status of a road in terms of CAP 766 of the Laws of
Zambia. Roads are designated and formally gazetted in the Government Gazette.
l.~     ..    .........I............... I--.........................................I.............. ...........................................................................................................
Undesignated Roads  This refers to roads which have never been designated before as above. This group of roads
includes those roads which are often (but erroneously) referred to as "Unclassified Roads". An
Undesignated road is however always "unclassified" as the standard for the road has not been
specified.
lassified Roads               These are roads which have been legally designated and in addition the class or standard of
sections of the road has been specified. Classification of a road or sections of a road is based
on the design standard and surface type. For an example, an inter-territorial trunk (T) road
would be designated for its entire length as a "T" road in accordance with its function but the
standard may vary along its length as traffic levels vary. In this case the designation of the
road remains as "T" but the route consists of various classifications based on geometric
standards of the sections.
......................            ............................................................................................................................................................................... ....
Unclassified Roads            These are roads for which the geometric standards have not been specified. It is noted that all
Undesignated roads have not been classified and therefore are unclassified. It is also noted
however that standards for some designated roads (legally declared) have not been specified
and these designated roads are also unclassified.



- 53 -
ROAD CONDITION
A. Paved Roads
Roughness based on International
Traffic Vehicles Per Day            Roughness Index
Good         Fair         Poor
00-299                   0-8          8-11         > 11
300-999                  0-6          6-9          > 9
1000+                    0- 5         5 - 8        > 8
B. Gravel Roads
Comfortable Travel Speed (km/hr.)
-Type              Good         Fair              Poor
Main Gravel        > 80       60 - 80             < 60
I Other Gravel      > 60       40 - 60             < 40



54 -
Annex 1-1
Page I of 10
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PROJECT TO SUPPORT A
ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Letter of Road Sector Policy
c,
?t4n:  LU&L 25426tJ(WZc-                                            e
Tti= ZA 42221                                                                Pyptaqj
Fa* 23494                                                                .,VoJIF.,MO      IV
REPUBLIC OF Z7MBI
4ISTRY OF FIN4ANCE AND ECONOPi0IC D'EV!OPMEN?
OFFICE OF THE AfLNISTr
P.O. BOX 50062
EIDGEWAY, 15101
21st March 1997                                                        CrLANGAUROAI
LUSAZk
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
1818 H Steet, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
TJNE  ST.ATES OF AMERICA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
RE: ZAMBIA'S ROAD SECrOR POLICIES AND ROAD SECTOR INVEST ENT
PROGRAMNE (ROADSIP)
This letter summarises various policy measures which the Government intends to
pursue to support implementation of its road sector strtegy during the period 1997 to 2002.
The letter deals first with the Governmentes economic and social development policies; second
with transport sector policies; third with road sector; fourth with the Government's policies
and objectives for the road sector; and finally with the various road sector policy issues which
the Government intends to tackle during the period up to the year 2002.
Economic and Social Development Policies
2. Government's medium term macroeconomic poUcy framework has been desigzted to
promote economic growth with stability based on market determined allocation of resources.
In the MIedium Term Fmancial Framework (1996-1998) , priority spending focusses on those
sectors that support growth such as roads, agriculture and provision of social services.
The objectives of this policy framework are;
2.1   to speed up the institutional reform process through the Public Service Reform
Programme (PSRP);
2.2   to continue with the policy of economic libernlisatlon and further encourage the
release of the private sector initiative and investment to facilitate the attainment of positive per
capita growth; and
2.3   to pursue an ambitious privatisation   programme  aimed at increasing
participation of the private sector in the economy.



- 55 -
Annex 1-1
Page 2 of 10
It is only by achieving these objectives that government can provide on a sustainable basis,
basic social services, a social safety net for the vulnerable a2nd rehabilitate /maintain essential
economic and social infrastructure.
Transport Sector Policy Framework
3.     Government's policy objective framnework for the Communications and Transport sector
is to improve the operating efficiency and performance of the sector for the benefit of the
customers' changing requirements as spelt out in the transport policy White Paper 1995. The
primary objectives of the policy are to:
3.1   ensure availability of sufficient resources from the private and public sectors to
create capacity in the sector commensurate with the requiremnents of the economy;
3.2   allocate available resources among modes to meet requirements at minimum cost
to society; and
3.3   establish a system of pricing that will ensure a reasonable return on transport
investments.
4.     Government will therefore continue to accord high priority to rehabilitation and
maintenance of infrastructure  in order to stimulate and optimise the existing productive
capacities in the following sub-sectors of Communications and Transport:
4.1    CivilAviation: after, the liquidation of the National carrier, Zambia Airways,
Government's policy has been to liberalise the civil aviation industry to encourage and promote
private operations of airlines and airports. By the end of 1996, a total of eight (8) Zambian
registered private holders of air service permits were operating air transport services carrying
passengers and cargo on domestic, regional and international routes;
4.2    Rail transport: as railways are the backbone of the Zambian transport system,
I
accounting for a significant percentage of the movement of the country s imports and exports, the
Government is focussing on enhancing the railways capacity by commercialising it in order to
improve the performance of the sector;
4.3    Road Transport: both passenger and freight transportation have been liberalised.
Government efforts shall be confined to matters relating to safety and quality of service and
improving access to rural areas as a matter of priority;
4.4   Inland Waterways Transport: the Government policy shall be to encourage the
development of inland waterways and maritime transport by commercialising the sector;
4.5    Urban Transport: Government focus shall be to promote the use of mass transit
systems, after determination of an optimal modal mix, ensure quality of service and orderliness in
public transport operations; and



-56 -
Annex 1-1
Page 3 of 10
4.6    Communications: to increase competition and efficiency throughout the economy
the former Posts and Telecommunications Corporation has been split into Zambia
Telecommunications Company (ZTC) and Zambia Postal services. The former is scheduled for
privatisation.
Background to the Road Sector
5.    Zambia has an area of 753,000 sq.km, with a total population in 1995 estimated at about
9.3 million inhabitants. The present state and future development of its economy is supported by a
multi-modal transportation system operated through various infrastructure including roads,
railways, airways, inland waterways, and pipelines. Among these, the road infrastructure is the
most significant in termns of network extent and dispersion across the country. Since the 1980s,
traffic has shifted from rail to road.
6.    In 1995, the total length of the road network was estimated at about 67,000 km made up
of 36,761 km of gazetted and designated roads under various functional classes and about
30,000 km of ungazetted roads. Road usage is about 129,000 motor vehicle units per day of
various types and about one million litres of fuel consumed per day including both petrol and
automotive diesel.
7.    At present, approxinately 20 percent of the road network is in good condition, 40
percent fair and 40 percent poor, due to persistent neglect of maintenance. The root cause for
failure to maintain the road network could be attributed to inadequate funding and poor
management of the Road Sector.
8.    Government decided to introduce a fuel levy in 1993 whose proceeds are deposited into
the Road Fund. The National Roads Board (NRB) was established in 1994 to manage and
administer the Road Fund for the purpose of maintaining and rehabilitating roads in the country.
Objectives of the Road Sector
9.    On the basis of the foregoing, the Government through its Ministry of Communications
and Transport (MCT) established a national task force in June i995 to prepare a Road Sector
Investment Programme (ROADSIP) after extensive consultation with local stakeholders and with
the donor and Non- Governmental Organisations(NGOs) comrnmunities. I note that the Bank has
actively supported this process by providing part of the funding requirements to prepare position
papers, which were presented as a basis for discussion at a stakeholder workshop in February
1996. The workshop endorsed the proposed ROADSIP which was subsequently discussed and
agreed to by my Government.
10.   The overall  objective of the Government is to facilitate economic growth and
diversification, particularly in the agriculture sector through appropriate investment in road
infrastructure. ROADSIP is to be implemented in two phases over a period of 10 years (1997-
2007) and is expected to lead to a substantial improvement in the quality of the road network and
road sector management. It is envisaged that the goals of phase 1 (1997-2002) of the programme
will be to:



-.57 -
Annex 1-1
Page 4 of 10
10.1  create a domestic sustainable system for financing and management of the
road network which will reduce dependence on erternal financing for maintenance and
rehabilitation;
10.2  increase the proportion of roads in good condition to no less than 50 percent of
the network, thus reducing vehicle operating costs;
10.3   address poor accessibility in the rural areas with emphasis on feeder roads
leading to productive areas;
10.4   put in place an accelerated programme to address the deterioration of selected
main and urban roads; and
10.5  put in place measures that will mitigate against adverse effects that road works
might have on the environment.
The Government has determined that ROADSIP will be the all encompassing programme for
road sector investments. Accordingly, Government intends that all future donor support wfll
be channelled through ROADSIP.
Road Sector Development Strategy
11.   In order to achieve the above objectives , the Government will adopt the following
strategies for road sector development:-
Strengthening Institutionalfframework.
11.1. Creating an appropriate institutional framework for management of the road
network- will be the Government's highest priority during this period.  This is to be
implemented in two phases:
11.1.1. strengthening the NRB, and complete restructuring of the Roads
Department (RD) in the Ministry of Works and Supply (MWS) and the Department of
Infrastructure and Support Services(DISS) in the NMinistry of Local Government and Housing
(MLGH) within the framework of the PSRP, to enhance the capacity, increase efficiency in
the use of resources and improve planning and implementation performance in the
management of the road sector; and
11.1.2. by mid-term review of ROADSIP, assess the opportunity to rationalise
these institutions by vesting in a single commercially oriented semi-autonomous NRB, full
responsibility for managing the road sector with Government retaining overall policy and
planning functions for roads.
Rehabilitating Priority Roads.
11.2. Given the large backlog of deferred maintenance, the civil works programme to
be financed under ROADSIP will focus on rehabilitation of roads classified as being in poor
condition.  The Government will develop and adopt consistent selection criteria and
specifications for road programmes and for maintenance standards to ensure scarce financial



-58 -
Annex i-1
Page 5 of 10
resources are applied to highest priority programmes. Priorities will be established on the
basis of:
11.2.1. economic rates of return(ERR) for main and trunk roads. The threshold
value of the ERR will be subject to agreement with the Bank prior to credit negotiatdons.
Government may seek agreement with the Bank  on specific projects that do not meet the
threshold value requirements, but are of high strategic priority andlor considerable social
benefis.
11.2.2. multi criteria ranking for feeder roads, and national parks access
roads.
Government will make intensive efforts to identify least cost most appropriate
solutions for rehabilitating roads. All roads rehabilitated under ROADSIP will be placed
under annual routine maintenance and periodic maintenance. Non-engineered roads will be
selectively upgraded, based on selection criteria to be agreed with the Bank. This stratgy
aims to reduce the proportion of the core road network classified as being in poor condition
from the current level of 40 percent to 20 percent by the end of phase one of the programme
period.
11.3. The rehabilitation programme under phase one is expected to cover 2100 km
of paved roads (Bituminous) and 4050 km of unpaved roads countrywide fUSS270 million].
The works to be undertaken  will include full reconstruction, upgrading of selected non-
engineered roads, spot improvement and minor rehabilitation. A first full year programme
of ROADSIP has been prepared by the Government and will be reviewed and agreed with the
Bank not later than credit negotiations . Bids will be invited for all works included in the
first year programme of ROADSIP and will be issued by credit effectiveness. The scope and
content of the rehabilitation programme wiU be reviewed annually by Government in
consultation with the Bank and stakeholders. As a matter of urgency,  the first year
proaramme includes priority main and urban roads which require immediate attention
through an accelerated rehabilitation programme.
Ensuring Effective MVaintenance.
11.4. During the past 20 years, the country's road network has suffered badly from
the neglect of maintenance and the Government is determined, with the assistance of the Road
Fund, to give high priority to routine and periodic maintenance of all roads classified as being
in good and fair condition. The annual routine maintenance programme will aim to cover
about 7,200 km in 1998 and this will rise to about 16,700 km by 2002 [USS 79 million]. The
periodic maintenance programme will likewise cover resealing/ resurfacing of about 4,100 km
of paved roads and regravelling of 2,180 km of gravel roads over the five year programme
period [USS 84 million].
MVanaging MVaintenance       -
1i.i.  Roads Department (RD):  The Government recognizes that the institutional
capacity of the RD to plan and implement road maintenance programmes has been seriously
eroded, largely on account of poor remuneration and inadequate funding . The Government
has recognized the need to address this issue and has therefore approved a plan to restructure
the RFD under the PSRP. The restructuring focuses on moving away from force account work



-59-
Annex 1-1
Page 6 of 10
and turning the RD into an organization which plans and supervises work carried out by
private sector consultants and contractors. Specifically, the Government strategy is:
11.5.1. to phase out force account within a period of five (5) years starting
with Lusaka and Copperbelt provinces. The implementation of this strategy will be reviewed
on an annual basis and adjusted when necessary. The RD will only retain some small core
teams to undertake emergency work and maintenance work. In parallel with these steps,
training opportunities will be offered to enable redundant staff to move into the construction
industry as consultants or contractors;
11.5.2. at the same time, to take steps to commercialise the Department's
quarries  prior to privatising these entities within 5 years, in line with the phasing out of
force account;  to  hand over management of weigh-bridges  to the NRB to have them
managed under contract; and to delegate the management of pontoons to local communities
or other commercial entities, where feasible;.
11.5.3. to put particular emphasis on the strengthening of the Provincial Road
Engineer's (PREs) functions within the RD, under the PSRP. Accordingly, it has been
necessary to ensure appropriate experience and qualifications are required for the positions
which are to be advertised. If it proves impossible to recruit suitable staff, the Government
will assess with the Bank - no later than the time of the first annual review of ROADSIP- the
alternative course of action that could be adopted to ensure the effective supervision of
rehabilitation and maintenance works. This will include a deliberate intervention of
development of local staff to ensure that they acquire the necessary sidlls and experience to
enable them to undertake effective supervision of rehabilitation and maintenance works. On a
short term basis expatriate staff will be recruited for purposes of enhancing the capacity and
capability of Zambian technical personnel;
11.5.4. adopt measures to maintain an inventory and update the road condition
data through the Highway Management System (HMS); and
11.5.5. strengthen the planning and supervisory capacity of the RD to ensure
the consistent application of appropriate engineering standards and technical specifications.
11.6. Natonal Roads Board (NRB): The Government recognizes the effectiveness of
the IRB and has therefore assigned to it primary responsibility for overseeing implementation
of ROADSIP. To ensure it can perform this function and discharge the duties assigned to it,
the Government has agreed that the NRB should be strengthened. This will be done by
publishing appropriate legislation, prior to credit negotiations, which wil provide the NRB
with powers to:
11.6.1. recruit an Executive Secretary and other staff as may be needed to
manage the Road Fund and discharge the other duties assigned to the NRB under terms and
conditions of service determined by the NNRB; and
11.6.2. charge the costs of the NRB  staff, excluding the costs of any staff
financed under donor-financed aid programmes, against the Road Fund provided such costs
do not exceed 5 percent of the annual revenue derived from road user charges.



- 60 -
Annex i-l
Page 7oflO
In addition, the Minister of Comunications and Transport wiU communicate
to the NRB, powers and arrangements under   which the NRB  will discharge its
responsibilities. The INR3 and the Road Fund were established through a Road Maintenance
Initiative(RMII) consultative process. Therefore, any substantive changes to the composition of
the Board will be by mutual agreement the Government and the World Bank.
11.7. Department of Infrastructure and Support Services (DISS): DISS has managed
to recruit two of the three staff forming part of its Roads Section. It is also receiving
Technical support from the International Development Agency (IDA) through an international
firmn of consultants financed under the Transport Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project (TETAP). At least three months before the end of the consultant's contract, the
MLGH will advise the Bank on what steps it intends to take to ensure it has the capacity to
continue supporting the urban and rural councils to rehabilitate and maintain their urban and
feeder road networks. These steps might involvement of private local consultants to take over
the support providing consultancy and project supervision services to local authorities.
Developing the Domestic Construction and Consulting Industy.
11.8. The Government strategy is to:
11.8.1. encourage  private  sector  involvement  in  road  construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance through assuring a predictable and growing market for the
local construction industry;
11.8.2. develop road maintenance and engineering skills, especially in labour
based construction methods;
11.9  The Government has therefore,  decided that the capacity of the domestic
consulting and construction industry needs to be enhanced and increased by removing any
constraints hampering active involvement of local consultants and contractors.    The
programme to address these constraints will be coordinated by the MWS in close
collaboration with the National Construction Council (NCC) and includes the following:
11.9.1. technical assistance to improve Government contracting policies and
procedures (including streainlining consultant, contractor registration procedures, developing
new simplified tendering procedures, contract documentation, and streamlining the legal
framework);
11.9.2. further development of training programmes for consultants and
contractors with particular emphasis on labour based work methods and strengthening the
capacity of the Roads Training School;
11.9.3. provision  of equipment to   local contractors through  leasing
arrangements. Funding is to be identified-to help the expansion of Zambian leasing companies
into the small equipment business;
11.9.4. provision of credit financing to medium scale contractors through the
financial system; and



-61 -
Annex 1-1
Page 8 of 10
11.9.5. encouragement of joint ventures between foreign contractors and
consultants and indigenous consultants and contractors to build the capacity and capability.
Improving MVanagement of Roads Deparrment P!ant and Equipment.
11.10. Government strategy is to improve the management of plant and equipment
owned by the RD. In view of the low availability rate of plant and equipment in the
Department coupled with the decisioa to phase out force account, Government has decided to
11.10.1.     dispose of all unsenriceable plant and equipment;
11.10.2.     down-size the existing Mechanical Engineering Section (MES) in
the RD in line with the PSRP;
11.10.3.     establish a small unit in each province. for emergency work
holding only the minimum amount of equipment subject to the proviso that in remote
provinces, a larger pool may be held to facilitate hire of equipment to the private sector; and
11.10.4.     review  the need for these units and identify any excess
equipment to be disposed of, after the first year of the programme
Mfobilising and allocadon of Road Sector Revenues.
11.11. Government policy is that local financing shall cover an increasing share of
sustainable maintenance and rehabilitation costs during the programme period. An estimated
US$14.5 million representing Government's counterpart financing obUgations to on-going
donor financed projects which will continue to be fnanced from the Government 's general
budget. Al road user charges will be channelled through the Road Fund. Road Fund
resources will be allocated as follows:
11.1.1.i     as a first charge, routine and periodic maintenance of all core
roads classified as being in good and fair condition;
11.11.2.     as  a  second  charge,  counterpart  funding  of  donor-financed
rehabilitation programmes; and
11.11.3.     the costs of managing the Road Fund which are not to exceed 5
percent of the road fund revenues mobilised through road user charges).
11.12. In line with the need to increase the sustainable flow of resources through the
Road Fund, the Government shall consider increasing road user charges and ensure that in
future the bulk of such revenues are channelled to the Road Fund to fund maintenance and
rehabilitation. Specifically, the Government intends from fiscal year 1998, to allocate to the
Road Fund , international transit fees, weighbridge fines, and a portion of road service
license. From fiscal year 1997, fuel levy is expressed as a percentage of the wholesale fuel
price, which shall be reviewed  on an annual basis.  The Government recognises the



- 62 -
Annex I-]
Page 9 of 10
importance of streamlining procedures for managing fuel levy proceeds to the benefit of the
programme. The Government has therefore decided that henceforth, Zambia National Oil
Company (ZNOC) shall directly deposit proceeds from the fuel levy into the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Development account, who in turn shall channell it without delay into
the Road Fund.
Improving, Community Accessibility.
11.13. The Government recognises the importance of bringing as many roads as
possible under regular maintenance, particularly in rural areas where many roads do not
form part of the public road network, but are nevertheless important for agriculture and to
enable rural communities to gain access to essential services. ROADSIP will therefore include
a programme of community accessibility designed to develop an institutional framework for
sustainable management of community roads, bridges,culverts, canals,tracks and trails. The
programme will be carried out in conjunction with Social Recovery Projects (SRP) for
construction and rehabilitation of roads, and-the NRB for maintenance. The programme will
start on a pilot basis . Based on the results of the pilot, the Government will consider main-
streaming the scheme throughout the country.
11.14. The community accessibility programme also aims to encourage the increased
use of low-cost intermediate means of transport(IMT) which are affordable to rural
populations such as draught animals, carts, motorised and non-motorised two and three
wheelers. To this end, the programme will include studies on past and current experiences
with INIT in Zambia, assessments of policy and regulation and a demonstration project to
promote IMT.
Mitigating Environmental Impacts.
11.15. The plan for dealing with potential environmental impacts includes four
elements critical both to the development of capacity and to building linkages between the
sector programme and national environmental policy and guidelines. They include:
11.15.1.     establishment of an environmental management unit to be
housed initially in the RD with external funding for technical assistance and training during
the first t-o years of operation;
11.15.2.     development of road sector environmental guidelines, including
review and strengthening of the environmental clauses in use in national competitive bidding
(NCB) procurement documentation;
11.15.3.     carrying  out environmental assessments on specific road
improvement projects on a selective basis; and
11.15.4.     carrying put monitoring and evaluatioa activity to ensure
compliance with environmental guidelines during the construction phase of projects.
Improving Road Safety
11.16. Government is mindful of the unsatisfactory state of road safety in the country
and has agreed that the National Road Safety Council (NRSC), under the MCT, should



- 63 -
Annex I-1
Page 10 of 10
prepare an Action Plan which would have as its target improving road safety and reducing
road accident fatalities by at least 20 percent by the year 2002. The Action Plan would be
prepared and presented to the Bank by the first annual review of ROADSIP.
Revising Road Sector Legislation
11.17. Many, if not most, of the above policy initiatives have implications for the
Roads and Road Traffic Act, Chapter 766 of the Laws of Zambia ( CAP 766) and the various
amendments passed since 1959. Government therefore intends to revise CAP 766 during the
course of ROADSIP to brine it up to date, to reflect the policy decisions taken since 1959 and
to put the Road Fund and the NRB on a firm legislative basis. Much of the preliminary work
required to revise CAP 766 has already been done and Government intends to work towards
having legislation ready for consideration by Parliament during the 1999 session. The scope of
the intended legislation will be discussed with the Bank not later than the mid-term review of
ROADSIP.
Reviewing Implementation of ROADSIP
11.18. Since ROADSIP has a large number of components, and includes several
important policy reforms, the Government intends to review the programme with the Bank
and other donors on an annual basis. At the mid-point of the planned implementation period,
the Government will also undertake a more detailed review of progress with the Bank and
other donors. During these reviews, there will be a general review of progress against the
various targets established in the programme implementation manual, together with a review
of progress in implementing the policy measures included in this letter of sector policy. Based
on these reviews, the Government may then request the Bank to discuss the provisions in this
letter and amend them to reflect changes in the overall macro-economic environment, agreed
new directions occasioned by unexpected opportunities or constraints, and changes that reflect
lessons learned in relation to the desired policy objectives of ROADSIP. If necessary, the
CGovernment will request that these amendments be reflected in appropriate changes made to
the credit agreement.
12.   I trust that the above policy framework gives confidence that an effective and efficient
road network is one of the country's highest priorities and that the Government is willing to go
to great lengths to ensure we achieve this objective.
Yours sincerely
RON M
MINISTER OF-FINANCE &
ECONOtMIC DEVELOPMIENT



- 64 -
Annex 2-la
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PROJECT TO SUPPORT A
ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Description of Civil Works Program
1) Routine Maintenance
Year     km
Paved    G Main   G         Feeder   P Urban  G Urban  Subtotal
District
1997/98      3748      394      1896       150      382       160     6730
1999       4418       496     2040      1400       382      210      8946
2000       5091       904      2184     2000       382       260    10821
2001       5452      1662      2528     2700       432       360    13134
200'2       5746     2159      3172     3600       482       460    15619
Total      24454     5616    11819      9850      2062      1451    55251
Year     US$ m
Paved    G Main   G         Feeder   P Urban  G Urban  Subtotal
District
1997/98      4.62      0.67     2.90      0.09      0.57     0.36      9.21
1999        5.45     0.85      3.12      0.84     0.57      0.47     11.29
2000        6.28      1.54     3.34      1.20     0.57      0.58     13.51
2001        6.72      2.84     3.87      1.62     0.64      0.81     16.50
2002        7.08      3.69     4.85      2.16     0.71      1.03     19.53
Total      30.15      9.60     18.08     5.91      3.05     3.26    70.05
Note: Paved road includes Trunk (T), Main (M), District (D) roads.
2) Periodic Maintenance
Year     km
P Trunk  P Main    G Main  P District G District Feeder   P Urban  G Urban  Subtotal
1997/98       434       36       102        75      144       850         0       50       1691
1999        313        36       407       75       144         0        0        50       1025
2000           0       36       758       75       344         0        0       100       1313
2001           0       36       497        75      644         0        0       100       1352
2002           0       36        71       75      1144         0        0       100       1426
Total        747      180      1836       374     2420       850         0      400       6807
Year     US$ m
P Trunk  P Main    G Main  P District G District Feeder   P Urban  G Urban  Subtotal
1997/98      7.99      0.66      1.24     1.10      1.44     1.70      0.00      0.60      14.74
1999        5.76     0.66      4.92      1.10     1.44      0.00     0.00      0.60       14.50
2000        0.00      0.66     9.16      1.10     3.45      0.00      0.00      1.21      15.59
2001        0.00      0.66     6.01      1.10      6.46     0.00      0.00      1.21      15.44
2002        0.00      0.66     0.86      1.10    11.48      0.00      0.00      1.21      15.31
Total      13.75      3.31    22.19      5.51     24.28      1.70     0.00      4.83      75.58



- 65 -
Annex 2-la
Page 2 of 4
3) Rehabilitation
Year    km                                             US$ m
P Trunk  P Main   P Urban  Subtotal           P Trunk  P Main   P Urban  Subtotal
1997/98      125        0         0      125              15.00     0.00     0.00      15.00
1999        203       47        0       250             24.36      5.62     0.00      29.98
2000        203       47        75      300              24.36     5.62     3.00      32.98
2001        113       70        75      233              13.56     8.42     3.00      24.98
2002        356       70       150      526              30.13     5.97     6.00      42.10
Total      1000      234       300     1434             107.41    25.62    12.00     145.04
4) Upgrading of Feeder Roads                  5) Accessibility Improvement for Feeder Roads
Year    km        US$ mn                      Year    km        US$ mn
1997/98      400      3.64                    1997/98    17000      5.10
1999        600      5.46                     1999      17000      5.10
2000        700      6.37                     2000      16300      4.89
2001        900      8.19                     2001      15400      4.62
2002       1000      9.10                     2002      14400      4.32
Total      3600    32.76                      Total     80100    24.03
Notes:
Accessibility Improvement will be applied on the average 15% of the length mentioned in table 5).
Source: RD and own estimation
Unit Costs (US$ per km)
P Trunk  P Main   G Main   P District G District Feeder   P Urban  G Urban
Routine Maintenance    1233     1233     1709     1233      1530      600     1480       2246
Periodic             18412    18412    12086    14729    10033       2000    21600      12086
Maintenance
Rehabilitation      120000   120000      N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.   40000            N.A.
Upgrading of Unengineered Feeder Roads            9100
Accessibility Improvement for Feeder Roads        2000
Notes:
For paved T and M roads with relatively low traffic a low cost rehabilitation with unit cost of US$ 84650 per
km will be
applied in the fifth year.
Source: RD and own estimation



- 66 -
Annex 2-la
Page 3 of 4
Base Cost in US$ million
Low Case      1997/98  1999   2000   2001   2002   Total
Routine           9.21   10.73  12.13  13.63  15.39  61.10
Maintenance
Periodic         8.57   7.04   7.04   7.04   7.04  36.74
Maintenance
Rehabilitation   11.67  20.74  21.26  38.30  38.82  130.79
Upgrade           3.28   4.91   5.73   7.37   8.19  29.48
Improve          4.59   4.59   4.40   4.16   3.89  21.63
Accessibility
Total           37.31  48.02  50.56  70.51  73.33 279.73
Base Case     1997/98  1999   2000   2001   2002   Total
Routine          9.21   11.29  13.51  16.50  19.53  70.05
Maintenance
Periodic         14.74  14.50  15.59  15.44  15.31  75.58
Maintenance
Rehabilitation   15.00  29.98  32.98  24.98  42.10  145.04
Upgrade           3.64   5.46   6.37   8.19   9.10  32.76
Improve           5.10   5.10   4.89   4.62   4.32  24.03
Accessibility
Total           47.69  66.33  73.34  69.74  90.37 347.46
High Case     1997/98  1999   2000   2001   2002   Total
Routine          9.21   11.08  14.25  17.61  21.82  73.98
Maintenance
Periodic         7.12  19.85  19.85  26.47  26.47  99.75
Maintenance
Rehabilitation  42.75  75.10  63.38  49.16  24.54 254.92
Upgrade          3.64   5.46   6.37   8.19   9.10  32.76
Improve           5.10   5.10   4.89   4.62   4.32  24.03
Accessibility
Total           67.82  116.58  108.75  106.04  86.24 485.44



- 67 -
Annex 2-la
Page 4 of 4
Length in km
Low Case       1997/98  1999   2000   2001   2002   Total
Routine          6,730   8,424  9,701  11,099  12,777 48,732
Maintenance
Periodic         1,253    488    488    488    488  3,206
Maintenance
Rehabilitation      80    250    280    379    409   1,398
Upgrade           360    540    630    810    900  3,240
Improve         15,300  15,300  14,670  13,860  12,960  72,090
Accessibility
Base Case      1997/98  1999   2000   2001   2002   Total
Routine          6,730   8,946  10,821  13,134  15,619 55,251
Maintenance
Periodic         1,691   1,025   1,313   1,352   1,426  6,807
Maintenance
Rehabilitation     125    250    325    258    576   1,534
Upgrade           400    600    700    900   1,000  3,600
Improve         17,000  17,000  16,300  15,400  14,400  80,100
Accessibility
High Case      1997/98  1999   2000   2001   2002   Total
Routine          6,730   8,793  11,417  14,212  17,701  58,853
Maintenance
Periodic         1,260   1,316   1,316   1,769   1,769  7,430
Maintenance
Rehabilitation    403    708    779    820    589  3,299
Upgrade           400    600    700    900   1,000  3,600
Improve         17,000  17,000  16,300  15,400  14,400  80,100
Accessibility



- 68 -
Annex 2-lb
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
ROAD SECTOR IN VESTMENT PROGRAM
The Core Main Roads Program
Civil works on some of the main roads has been already started, partly under donor
financing. They are mentioned in Table (1) below. Of the remaining paved main roads
the road sections for which reconstruction, overlay and/or repair/reseal is also included
for the first two years of the program, are summarized in Table (2). The selection has
been based on cost benefit analysis with the highest priority being given to roads
demonstrating the highest economic rates of return (ERR) with benefits measured
primarily on the basis of vehicle operating cost savings (VOC). The methodology
underlying this analysis and the results of the various tests carried out are given in Annex
4-1. All ongoing and planned roads are a part of the overall yearly civil works program
described in the tables in Annex 2-la.
(1) Ongoing
Road           Section           Length    Major Financing    Type of Intervention
No.                           Implemented      Source
TOO1   Monze - Mazabuka           64 km    NORAD           Rehabilitation
T001   Mazabuka - Kafue           58 km    NORAD           Repair/Reseal
T002   Kapiri Mposhi - Serenje   198 km    DANIDA          Overlay
T004   Lusaka - Luangwa Bridge   375 km    AfDlB           Rehabilitation
T004   Luangwa Bridge                      DANIDA          Rehabilitation
MOOS   Mutanda - Jct Dl 81        104 km    GRZ            Reconstruction
MO10   Livingston - Shesheke     201 km    KfW             Under Feasibility Study
MO11   Choma - Namwala            169 km    GRZ            Reconstruction
D181   Jct M008 - Kasempa         47 km    GRZ             Reconstruction
D286   Manyinga - Mwinilunga     220 km    KfW             Upgrading
D469   Luanshya - Mpongwe         62 km    GRZ             Reconstruction



- 69-
Annex 2-lb
Page 2 of 2
(2) Priority Roads Included in First Year Program
Road            Section             Length     Major Financing    Type of Intervention or
No.                              Implemented       Source               Remarks
TOO1    Zim Border - Livingstone       6 km                     Repair/Reseal
T002    Chirundu - Kafue              80 km    _                Repair/Reseal
T002    Kabwe - Kapiri Mposhi        68 km     EU               Reconstruction, Repair/
I                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reseal
T002    Serenje - Mpika             235 km     IDA              Repair/Reseal
T002    Mpika - Chinsali            168 km     IDA              Maintenance
T002    Chinsali - Nakonde          210 km     IDA              Maintenance
T003    Chingola - Kasumbalesa       46 km                      Overlay, Repair/Reseal
T004    Km 233 - Km 260              27 km                      Overlay
T005    Chingola - Solwezi          172 km                      Reconstruction
M004   Ndola - Mwambeshi             43 km                      Overlay, Repair/Reseal
M006   Kafulafuta - Luanshya         43 km                      Overlay, Repair/Reseal
M009   Lusaka - Mumbwa               65 km      IDA             Reconstruction,
I_________                 ______________                Repair/Reseal
M009   Mumbwa - Mongu                 86 km     IDA             Reconstruction,
_________  c___________________________  =____________  c___________  R epair/R eseal



- 70 -
Annex 2-ic
Page 1 of 4
THE CORE FEEDER ROADS PROGRAM
1.    On the basis of comprehensive surveys carried out so far in five provinces, Zambia's
core feeder roads network has been estimated at 19,000 km. I The data collected indicates that
less than five percent of the primary network is in good or fair condition. The remainder is poor
or very poor. Under ROADSIP, improvement efforts will be of two types: i) upgrading which
will upgrade unengineered roads to acceptable engineering standards; and ii) accessibility
improvements which focus specifically on drainage and improvement of well known trouble
spots. Each district council, with advice from the MLGH central rural roads unit, will determine
the specific program in its jurisdiction. The strategy of each council will therefore need to strike
a compromise between upgrading and accessibility improvement. During ROADSIP, core
feeder roads in fair condition will receive periodic maintenance and then be included in a
sustainable routine maintenance program. All good feeder roads will be placed under routine
maintenance.
2.    It is foreseen that a total amount of US$ 60 million will be allocated to feeder roads
during the first five years of ROADSIP. IDA support to feeder roads will be US$16 million, i.e.,
one third of the total feeder roads program, and will be destined for three provinces--Luapula,
Northern, and Western. These provinces have been selected in consideration of on-going and
planned support by other donors to feeder roads.
3.    Given the scenario outlined in the table below, which assumes that US$ 60 million is
available for feeder roads over five years and that all core roads will receive some intervention,
3,600 km would be upgraded and the remainder of the core network would receive accessibility
improvements. Following this strategy, 56 percent of the funding ($33 million) will be allocated
to upgrading, 40 percent to accessibility improvement ($24 million) and four percent to periodic
maintenance ($2 million). At the end of the five year program, 4,600 km of feeder roads (24
percent of the core network) would be in good or fair condition receiving regular maintenance
compared to less than five percent of the feeder road network in year one, and 14, 400 km of the
core network (the remaining 76 percent) would have received annual accessibility improvements
during five years, something which will have significantly improved accessibility in rural
Zambia.
The surveys estimate that there are about 34,000 km of feeder roads in Zambia. On the basis of socio-
economic criteria, these have been divided into primary, secondary and tertiary feeder roads. The
primary roads constitute the core feeder roads network.



- 71 -
Annex 2-ic
Page 2 of 4
Improvement (1cm)                               Routine
Upgrading    Access    Per. Maint.              Maintenance
Year    $9, 1 00/km   $2000/km    $2,000/km    Total km     (km)
1         400       17,000        1,000     18,400e-
2         600        17,000                  19,000       1,400
3         700        16,300                  19,000       2,000
4         900        15,400                  19,000       2,700
5        1000        14,400                  19,000       3,600
Total km    3,600       80,100                  19,000
Total $   33 million  24 million*    2 million  I
*Accessibility Improvements will be made on 15 percent of the core network which is not in good
or fair condition or scheduled for upgrading.
**The 600 km of roads scheduled for upgrading in the second year will not receive any
improvement in the first year.
Methodology for Feeder Roads Program
4.    The feeder roads methodology constitutes an important part of a long-term effort to
bring coherence and order into the management of local road system in Zambia. Under
ROADSIP, all core feeder roads are expected to be designated as the responsibility of local
councils. As such, the function and condition of the core feeder roads will be monitored
periodically as part of the local road management system. The feeder roads program has been
developed using a four step methodology. Guided by a technical process (steps 1 through 3 of
the feeder roads methodology), each local council determines the specific program interventions
in its jurisdiction (step 4):
i. The first step involves a comprehensive inventory and condition survey of all roads
in rural Zambia excluding only those which are under the designated responsibility of
the Roads Department and the National Parks Services. The inventory therefore includes
all RD and R roads which are the responsibility of local councils as well as currently
undesignated roads which may have been constructed by NGOs, freestanding projects,
and communities.
ii. The second step divides the feeder roads network into three levels--primary,
secondary and tertiary--according to set of network based criteria. A primary feeder
road must satisfy three criteria: a) link with another all-weather road and form a coherent
link between population and production centers and the national road network; b) form a
loop, on its own or in combination with other roads, to facilitate passenger and goods
transport; and c) not duplicate the function served by other roads in the network, i.e.,
roads in flat and rolling terrain should be 15-20 km apart or in very hilly terrain 7-10 km
apart. The primary roads will constitute the core feeder roads network.
iii. The third step ranks the primary/core feeder roads according to socio-economic
importance using ordinal rankings. This multi-criteria analysis includes, among other
factors, population served by the road, presence of social and economic facilities



- 72 -
Annex2-lc
Page 3 of 4
(schools, clinics, markets, crop stores/processing facilities, administrative services),
projected increase in traffic volume, current and potential agricultural production and
programmed development activities. An example of how the criteria has been applied is
given in Box 1. These criteria have been discussed and agreed to by key stakeholders
including the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries and the National Roads Board
which has significant road user representatives in its committees. The multi-criteria
analysis, in addition to providing an initial ranking of the core feeder roads, informs and
facilitates the discussions among local constituents.
iv. The centerpiece of the methodology is the fourth andfinal step which results in the
feeder roads program for each council based on constituent priorities. The MLGH rural
roads unit presents the outcome of step one through three to individual councils and their
2
constituents. Based on the resource envelope , each district council, with the assistance
of the MLGH rural roads unit, decides whether to fully upgrade a few roads or do a
mixture of full upgrading and accessibility improvements. The MLGH rural roads unit
acts as technical adviser to the council and will assist the councils to make technically
informed decisions and draw up a plan which meets local priorities.
5.     As part of the technical and consultative process, each council gains a clear grasp of the
network for which it is responsible and an understanding of the maintenance requirements of this
network. A detailed feeder roads program has been developed in consultation with the 15 local
councils in Luapula and Northern Provinces. The process is expected to commence in Western
France in early 1998. The first two years of the program will address the full upgrading of 12 of
the 15 councils. The typical council elected to fully upgrade about 20 percent of its network
providing low cost accessibility improvements to the rest of the core network. This amounts to
an estimate of 1380 kilometers of feeder roads for upgrading. Responsibility for some of the
secondary and tertiary roads may be assumed by communities as part of the community
accessibility program. This program encourages communities to claim ownership for roads
which provide access to their locality.
2 The resource envelope for each district has been determined using a simple formula. Since MLGH
currently is not using any composite index for allocating resources among districts, the rural roads
unit is using a simple formula based on road and population density and economic activity. The total
index is derived by adding: population index + road index + activity index = total index. The range
of indices is from a total of 3 for the districts with the lowest road density, the lowest population
density and the lowest economic activity to 9 for the economically most active districts with the
highest road density and the highest population. The resource envelope for each district is then
determined by a weighted proportion of its total index and kilometers of core feeder roads.



- 73 -
Annex 2-ic
Page 4 of 4
Box 1. Ranking offeeder roads using multi-criteria analysis
The feeder roads inventory covered all roads in each district. Socio-economic data was assembled in 8
different indices (see below). Given the scant data available on traffic flows and agricultural production
along individual roads in rural Zambia, these indices act as a proxy to rank the network according to
economic and social importance. Indices a) through d) combine into an economic dimension scale; indices
e) through j) combine into a social dimension scale. The socio economic justification index is arrived upon
by adding the two together. Roads are subsequently ranked according to their combined socio-economic
index. Equal weight has been granted to all factors which are each assigned a number between I and 10.
The higher the index, the more important the road. For example, road X, which is a currently unclassified
road in Mporokoso district in the Northern province, was rated as indicated the table above. The economic
dimension scale was 22/4=5.5; the social index is 26/4=6.5. The combined socio-economic index is 6.0
which gives this road a rather high ranking, specifically considering that it is unclassified.
Jndex                                       Road X
a) current agricultural production index      9
b) potential marketed production index        7
c) existing production facilities index       3
d) planned development projects index         3
e) population served by road index            9
f) social facility intensity index            3
i) potential traffic and mobility index       9
j) employment creation potential index        5
The resultant ranking of feeder roads is subsequently subjected to local level consultations.



Republic of Zambia
Road Sector Investment Program
Implementalion Schedule
b6         1997        1998          1999         2000         2001         2002         2
ID   Task Name                                              Duration   3 0Q4 Q1 02 Q3lQ4|1 IQ2 Q3 Q4 Q Q|Q2 Q3 Q4Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 1Q  02 03 |Q41Q1 0231 Q2
1   1. Road Maintenance (Routine and Periodic)                 1325d     O     !
2       Detailed Maintenance Program for 1997                     4w
3       Perform Maintenance for 1997                             52w
4       Detiled Maintenance Program for 1998                      4w
5       Perform Maintenance for 1998                             S2w
6       Detailed Maintenance Program for 1999                     4w
7       Perform Maintenance for 1999                             52W
8       Detailed Maintqnance Program for 2000                     4w
9       Perform Maintenance for 2000                             52w
10       Detailed Maintenabce Program for 2001                     4w
11       Perform Maintenance for 2001                            52w
12   2. Road RehabilitationlUpgrading/Accessibility Improvement  1326d      .                                     !      -
13       Preparation of 5 Year Outline Rehabilitation Program     4w |
14       Preparation of Detailed Program for 1997198 - 1998199    4w
15       Finalize Detailed Program for 1997198                    4w
16       Perform Civil Works for 1997198                         52w
17       Finalize Detailed Program for 1998199                    4w
18       Perform Civil Works for 1998199                         52w
19       Preparation of Detailed Program for 1999100 - 2001/02    6w
20       Finalize Detailed Program for 1999/00                     4w             ..
| Task               _" Summary                                            Rolled Up Progress
Project: Zambia RSIPI_
Date: 6/9/97                       Progress                        .     Rolled Up Task
|Milestone          *RollbdUp Milestone
Annex 3-2



Republic of Zambia
Road Sector Investment Program
Implementation Schedule
-96        1997         1998          1999         2000          2001          2002         2
ID   Task Name                                                Duration  Q3 f4 01  42 Q3IQ4 Q1 1Q21031Q4I Q IIQ21031Q41Q1 102Q3104 Qi1 1021Q31Q4 Q1 1Q2 131Q4        2
21       Perdorm Civil Works for 1999100                           52w                                                 -
22       Finalize Detailed Program for 2000101                      4w
23       Perform Clvil Works for 2000101                           52w                                                              -
24       Finalize Detailed Program for 2001102                      4w
25       Perform Civil Works for 2001/02                           52w
26   3. Community Accessibility Program                           1310d            .                          .mm
27       Community Transport Infrastructure                       1310d       :                   -
-    - I ~ ~          ~          ~ ~ ~ MMO
28           Implementation of Pilot Project in one province       78w
29           Training for staff and community representalives      159w |.
30           Implementation extended to other provinces           184w
31       Intermediate Means of Transport                           630d
32           Study on IMT                                          53w
33           Implementation of a Pilot Project                     53w
34   4. Construction Industry Development Program                 1140d       .                                            m             m    l,
35       Government Procedures                                     300d
36           Streamlining of Registration Process                  24w
37           Sirnplify Tendering and Contract Document              8w
38           TA to MWS and NCC                                     52w
39       TrainingPrograminRTS                                    1140d              .l.0l;
40           Development of Contractor Training Program             90d       :    *                                   __;_._._.______
Task                 _                 Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Project: Zambia RSIP                Progress                               RolledUTs 
Milestone         *ARolled Up Milestone O
Annex 3-2



Republic of Zambia
Road Sector Investrnent Program
Implementation Schedule
.6        1997          i998        i999          2000         2001         2002         2
ID   Task Name                                              Duration  Q3Q4Q10Q2Q3|Q4 IQ1Q2IQ3IQ4IQIQ2IQ3IQ4IQ1|Q2IQ3IQ4QIQ2Q3I Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4QQ2
41           Set up and Implement Contractor Training Program   210w
42   5. Capacity Building and Training                          1146d
43       A. Policy Support                                      1042d       ._i
44           Policy Advisor                                     104w
45           Update Transport Sector Policy Framework             40d
46           Study on Improving the Management and Financin       50d       I
52          Institutional Strengthening of Roads Authorities    104w
53           Restructuring Road Fund                            104w_                                   __
54           Road Safety Action Program                          225d
63           Road Traffic Legislation                            225d
72       B. Implementation Support                               385d
73           TA to NRB                                           225d
82           TA to RD                                            385d
91           TA to DISS                                          385d                                              i
100      C. Institutional Development                            885d
101          Highway Engineer/Team Leader                        885d
110          Contracts ManagemenUProcurement                     365d
119          Financial Management                                365d                                 i
128          Short Term Specialists                              265d
137          Environmental Management                            495d
Task                 _       _        Summary                  _           Rolled Up Progress
Project: Zambia RSIP
Date: 619A97                       Progress                              Rolled Up Task_-
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 
Annex 3-2



Republic of Zambia
Road Sector Investment Program
Implementation Schedule
1'97    I ~ . 1998        1999          2000          2001         2002          2
ID   Task Name                                                Duration    fQi Q1lQ2Q3JQ4Q1O2JQ3JQ4IQ11Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4QQ23Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4J1 Q2
146           Restructuring Plant and Vehicle Pool                 365d
155           HMS Unit                                             235d
164          Selection Criteria and Analytical Tools               235d
173           Urban Road Management System                         235d        :           _                           ,             ,,
182  6. implementation Banchmarks                                 1380d
183      Project Launch                                              4w              i
184      First Year Annual Review                                    4w        .,
185      Second Year Annual Review                                   4w
186       Mid Term Review                                            4w
187      Third Year Annual,Review                                    4w
188      Fourth Year Annual Review                                   4w
189      fifth Year Annual Review                                    4w 
190      ICR                                                        96d
Task                      _           Summary                    _           Rolled Up Progress
Project: Zambia RSIPPrgesRldUpTk
Date: 6/9/97                        Progress                               Rolld Up Task
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone 0
Annex 3-2



- 78 -
Annex 3-2
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PROJECT TO SUPPORT A
ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Appraisal Estimate
Cumulative                       Standard
Amount          Amount                       Disb. Profile
FY        Qtr.      (US$ million)   (US$ million)    Percentage     for Transport
FY98       Dec-97           0               0              0%              0%
Mar-98           1               1              1%              0%
Jun-98           1              2              3%              0%
FY99       Sep-98           2               4              6%              0%
Dec-98           2               6              9%              0%
Mar-99           2               8             11%              1%
Jun-99          2               10             14%             3%
FY00       Sep-99           2               12             17%             5%
Dec-99           3              1 5            21%              6%
Mar-00           3              18             26%              8%
Jun-00          3               21             30%             10%
FY01       Sep-00           5              26              37%             12%
Dec-00           3              29             41%             14%
Mar-01           4              33             47%             18%
Jun-01          6               39             56%             22%
FY02       Sep-01           7              46              66%            30%
Dec-01           8              54             77%             38%
Mar-02           5              59             84%             38%
Jun-02          5               64             91%             40%
FY03       Sep-02           4               68             97%            42%
Dec-02           1              69             99%             48%
Mar-03           1              70             100%            54%
Jun-03          0               70            100%             56%
FY04       Sep-03                                                          58%
Dec-03                                                         66%
Mar-04                                                         74%
Jun-04                                                         80%
FY05       Sep-04                                                          86%
Dec-04                                                         93%
Mar-05                                                         98%
Jun-05    __99%
FY06       Sep-05                                                         100%



- 79 -
Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PROJECT TO SUPPORT A
ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
COMPARATIVE DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
100                                       *  *
90
80
70
60
50                                                         ort Profile (Zartbia)
40                       4SARestimate
20
10
0
o  N~ 'D co      0  cm'IT'~ co co 0  C4-  v  co  co 0
Quarters



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PROJECT TO SUPPORT A
ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Key Perforinance Indicators
Objectives                   Performance hidicators           Unit        12/98         12/99        12/00         12/01        12/02        1 MeansofVerification
Input Indicators
To increase road sector financing    Funding made available (annual basis)  UJS$ M                                                                   Project Progress Reports
Financial Audit
1. Fuel Levy                                          13.0         17.9        23.0         28.5           32.2
2. Olher Road User Charges                             3.3          3.3          3.3          3.1           3.1
3. Budget                                              4.6          5.2          5.1          4.1           8.1
4. IDA Funding
* ROADSIP                                            8.0         10.0         15.0        26.0           11.0
* Other                                              2.0          3.5          1.0          0.0           0.0
5. Donor lunding                                      38.8         29.4        26.9           9.0          32.0
To bring Lhe core road network  Civil works contracts awarded                                                                                        Project Progress Reports
into a maintainable condition    1. Periodic Maintenance               USS M           13.74        13.5         14.59        14.94         14.81
Km         1,576.0       954.0       1,229.0      1,308.0       1,379.0
2. Reihabilitation                    US$ M           15.0         29.98        32.98        24.98         42.10
Km           125.0       250.0        300.0         233.0         526.0
Output Indicators                                                                                                                                                                              O
'I'o improve road Iransport services   Completion of road works          Km                                                                          Project Progress Reports
anid reduce transport cost      1. Routine Mainitenanicc (aniual)                   6,730.0      8,946.0     10,821.0     13,134.0      15,619.0   'Technical Audit
2. I'criodic Maintcianice (cumilalive)             3,691.0      2,716.0      4,029.0      5,381.0       6,807.0
3. Reliabilitationi (cumulative)                     125.0        375.0       675.0         908.0       1,434.0
4. Feeder Road Upgrading (annual)                    400.0        600.0        700.0        900.0        1,000.0
To address improved conimnunity  Completion of community road projecis   No.           I0          25           40            56           70        Project Progress Reports
accessibility                                                            Km            70.0     160.0          280.0        400.0         500.0      SRPU Reports
Outcome Indicators
To bring the condition of road  % of foad network; in good conditiosi                                                                                I IlMS
network at least 50% good        I. Paved roads                                        29.0         37.0         39.0         41.0          47.0    Field Surveys
2. Unpaved roads                                       8.0          9.0          8.0         17.0          33.0    Technical Audit
3. Feeder roads                                        2.0          5.0          7.0         11.0          I 5.0
To alleviate poverty through    Create employment opportunities in Ilic  No.        2,000        5,000        8,000       33,000        14,000      lProject Progress Reports
crealion of new jobs            labor-based consitriction works
Impact Indicators
To improve road safety by       Accident dala per year                   No.                                                                         Projecl Progress Reports
reducing road accidents by at least                                                                                                                  Aniual 'Iransport
20%/o                           1. Road accidents                                   8,200        7,800        7,500        7,200         7,000       Stalistics              )
2. Fatalities                                        870          830          800          770           750                              0   X
To strengthen local construction  Number of contractors trained          No.                                                                         Project Progress Reports02
industry                                                                                                                                             NCC Reports
1. Routinie Maintenanice                              60         180          300          300            300                                   U4
2. Rehabilitation                                      5           20           30           50            70
Flapsed Iine betwccn invoice           I)ays          14           10           10           10            10
subnIissioi and paymncti           I           I             I            I            I             I            I



- 81 -
Annex 3-4
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PROJECT TO SUPPORT A
ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate                                                                       Staff
Date of Input                                                                    Weeks
(Mo/yr.)                   Activity                  Expected Skill Required    in Field
Oct/Nov 1997    Project Launch:                      Transport Specialist           15
Review: progress of the program so far;   Highway Engineer
including civil works and policy reforms;  Specialist for Institutional
the first year maintenance program;  Reform
procurement status; status of stakeholder   Rural Transport Specialist
participation.                       Procurement Specialist
Develop: action plans on institutional  Legal Counsel
reform, community accessibility program   Disbursement Officer
and construction industry development
program
May/Jun l998    Supervision 1:                       Transport Specialist           12
Review: status of capacity building  Highway Engineer
prograrns, achievements to date in road    Rural Transport Specialist
maintenance and rehabilitation,      Environment Specialist
environmental management
improvement, action plan on restructuring
:_____________  plant pool, review studies on IMT.
Oct/Nov         First Annual Review:                 Transport Economist            12
1998            Review: institutional strengthening of  Highway Engineer
other road authorities, training progress;   Rural Transport Specialist
progress on institutional reform; second    Procurement Specialist
year maintenance program and indicative  Financial Analyst
program for 2000-2001 both for
maintenance and rehabilitation; audit
performance.
Develop: labor based maintenance and
rehabilitation methods, third year road
maintenance and maintenance plan,
evaluation according to performance
indicators.
Feb/March 1999  Supervision 2                        Transport Economist            12
Preparation for mid-term review,     Highway Engineer
assessment of 1998 outturn numbers,  Specialist for Institutional
economic evaluation thus far, review  Reform
studies on institutional and financing  Transport Economist
reform performance to date.



- 82 -
Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 2
Approximate                                                                      Staff
Date of Input                                                                   Weeks
(Mo/yr.)                  Activity                  Expected Skill Required    in Field
Oct/Nov 1999    Second Annual Review                 Transport Specialist           8
Review third year road maintenance  Highway Engineer
program, progress on policy reform;  Rural Transport Specialist
development of contractors; performance
of road works
Feb/Mar 2000    Supervision 3                        Transport Specialist           6
Review evaluation of performance    Highway Engineer
according to performance indicators for   Transport Economist
mid-term review, progress on legal
reform and transport policy action plans
Jun/July 2000    Mid-Term Review:                    Transport Specialist          20
Review: performance of road authorities  Highway Engineer
and need for further reform, progress on   Rural Transport Specialist
capacity building program, efficiency of   Financial Analyst
road fund management, development of   Specialist for Institutional
private contractors, community       Reform
development and participation,      Procurement Specialist
achievements on road maintenance and    Disbursement Specialist
rehabilitation, progress on legislation  Legal Counsel
review.
Develop: staff training goals;
environmental and traffic safety action
plans,; financial management systems                                    l
OctlNov 2000    Third Annual Review                  Transport Specialist          10
Review: institutional performance,  Highway Engineer
achievement on civil works; effectiveness  Rural Transport Specialist
of financing reforms; development of  Environmental Specialist
community ownership, progress on
environmental management, fourth year
maintenance program                                                     l
May/June 2001   Supervision 4                        Transport Specialist           6
Review on: Progress on policy reform;    Highway Engineer
development of contractors; performance  Transport Economist
of road works
Sept/Oct 2001    Fourth Annual Review                Transport Specialist           8
Review on: achievement on civil works;   Highway Engineer
progress on policy reform; development   Rural Transport Specialist
of community ownership; fifth year  Procurement Specialist
maintenance program r
March/April     Supervision 5 and ICR                Transport Specialist          12
2002            Review: Assessment on project        Highway Engineer
performance, reevaluation of costs and    Rural Transport Specialist
benefits, preparation of draft ICR.  Specialist for Institutional
Reform
Transport Economist
Estimated Field Supervision Staff Weeks                      125



- 83 -
Annex 4-1
Page I of 7
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PROJECT TO SUPPORT A
ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Methodology and Results for Priority Main Roads Program
1.    The main direct benefit from main road pavement improvements is the reduction
of vehicle operating costs (VOC). These in turn will usually result in lower transport
costs for people and goods, when there is a competition in the road transport sector.
Traffic volumes on the Zambian roads are generally low; only T roads in the Copperbelt
province and near townships experience 500 and more vehicles per day while M roads in
rural areas and n roads often carry less than 100 vehicles per day. The analysis has been
based on the data &-lIected and stored in the Highway Management System (HMS) under
the IDA financed Transport Engineering and Technical Assistance project (TETAP).
Because the origin and destination of the traffic on these roads are not known and traffic
demand is not likely to be suppressed due to the present road conditions, no consideration
has been made for generated traffic. Traffic generation, time savings and other benefits
are likely to be positive but not included in the analysis, so that the VOC savings
represent a lower bound.
2.    The roads analyzed show in general high roughness because of the years of
neglected maintenance caused by lack of resources. However, because of the generally
low traffic volume and a sound initial engineering standards with relatively strong road
subbase, the deterioration of the roads is estimated to be slower than a case one would
expect from present surface conditions. For this reason, reconstruction is limited to a
minimum amount and repair/reseal options were selected whenever possible. Once the
backlog maintenance is covered, the roads would be put to regular annual maintenance
program. The sections of the road as well as selection of the proposed intervention type
for the capital investment have been selected based on ERR justified by VOC savings.
The road sections with economic rate of return (ERR) of 12% and above over a twenty
year analysis period have been included.
3.    The cost and road condition data were collected and input during the period from
April to September 1995. The unit costs in the HMS, as mentioned in Table A, were
developed as the average costs for the works carried out under the Roads Department in
1995 and were revised end 1996 based on recent contract documents from the Roads
Department. Since the exchange rate is market determined, and composition of the labor



- 84 -
Annex 4-1
Page 2 of 7
and equipment costs is assumed to be similar for costs and benefits the conversion factor
is assumed to be 1. RTIM3 based economic analysis was conducted with the traffic
growth rate of 3 % which is taken from the recent experience and future projected
economic growth of the country, which is however on conservative side. A complete
output of the economic analysis with detailed data for each link between years 1997 and
2016 is included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Table B shows the ERR and
the cost for the roads which satisfied the ERR threshold of 12 % for the base case
scenario and which are included in the first two years program. The overall ERR for all
priority paved road improvements is 21 %.
4.    Sensitivity Analyses were conducted on the high priority roads to test the impact
of: (i) variations from the initial normal traffic growth (3 %) and (ii) the effect of capital
cost variation. The result for each road in the priority program is in Tables C and D. The
priority roads in general remain economically sound even in case of low traffic growth of
1 % p.a. Only the ERR of M4 would turn out to be less than 12 %. The results of
switching value analysis shows that except for M4, which already has 12% ERR at the
base cost estimate, roads would remain economically viable for capital costs increase of
up to 105%.
5.    Detailed feasibility studies have been conducted for the Great North Road (T2)
from Kapiri Mposhi to Nakonde. The road is divided into four sections with an
approximate length of 200 km for each of the sections. The traffic level is generally low
with a current daily traffic level of around 500 vehicles at Kapiri Mposhi. The level
gradually decreases towards the Tanzanian border where the traffic is less than 100
vehicles per day. The origin - destination survey shows that a high percentage (up to 80
%) of the traffic is regional or international long distance traffic, so that the major benefit
would arise from the reduction of the VOC.
6.    Rehabilitation on the Sections 1 and 2 will be economically feasible and included
in Tables B and C. Staged construction is proposed for the Section 2 where further
strengthening of the road surface is scheduled after 6 or 12 years, depending on the
condition of the road. This strategy has the advantage of reducing the high initial
investment costs. On the Sections 3 (Mpika - Chinsali) and 4 (Chinsali - Nakonde) no
rehabilitation option is justified economically because of low traffic benefits. For these
two sections continuous maintenance with patching and reseal will be the only feasible
option to keep the road passable for heavy traffic. Only one link of the Section 4, which
has already failed, will be reconstructed to ensure cross border traffic to use the road.
The ERR resulting from the maintenance is 22 % for the Section 3 while for the Section 4
the value is 8 %. The Section 4 is the last section of the Great North Road towards the
Tanzanian Border and the only road link to Tanzania from Zambia. This link is of



- 85 -
Annex 4-1
Page 3 of 7
strategic importance for the country because if this section becomes impassable the
international road link to Tanzania would be lost. In addition, the road backs up the
TAZARA. If TAZARA collapses, all traffic to Tanzania would be diverted to the road.
The volume of the diverted traffic is estimated to be the order of 85 over-five-axle trucks
per day with 6 % increase per year. Incorporating this potential traffic volume the ERR
would be 28 % which is taken as a proxy indicator of the net economic benefit to Zambia
for maintaining this road link. The detailed sheet of the economic analysis is shown in
Table E and F.
Table A
HMS Input Costs for Intervention Categories
Costs (US$)
Intervention      Economic    Financial      Forex
Routine maintenance   1030.54/km    1499.38/km   360.30/km
Patching               18.00/m2      27.31/m2     9.09/m2
Reseal                  1.80/m2       2.68/m2     0.91/m2
Slurry seal             1.48/m2       2.23/m2     0.75/m2
DBST**                  9.84/m2      14.83/m2     5.34/m2
Overlay**              11.48/m2      14.56/m2     8.03/m2
Reconstruction         19.67/m2      24.94/m2    13.77/m2
Notes:  * Includes grading
*e Includes regulation



- 86 -
Annex 4-1
Page 4 of 7
Table B
ERR and NPV of High Priority Main Roads
Proposed           NPV at
Intervention Type        12%             Economic  Roughness
Discount           Capital    Range in
Route                                     Repair/      Rate     ERR       Cost    IRI for the
No.     Proposed Section    Rehab.   Reconstr  Reseal  (US$ m)   %      (US$ m)    Section
Ti     Zimbabwe Border    5 km                1 km      0.4     25 %      0.4      5.2 - 6.6
- Livingstone
T2      Chirundu - Kafue                    72 km       2.2     23 %       1.4        4.5
T2     Kapiri Mposhi -    39 km   96 km    62 km        5.0     15 %      20.7     2.9 - 7.8
Serenje
T2      Serenje - Mpika                    235 km      2.9      14 %      14.2    2.7 - 6.0
T3      Chingola -         15 km             13 km      6.1     42 %      2.6      2.9 - 7.4
Kasumbalesa
T4      Km233 -Km          11 km    3km      9km        0.3      16%       1.3     7.1 -9.0
260 at Kachalola                                                                    l
T5     Chingola -                  101 km              2.2      18 %       3.6     3.4 - 8.1
Solwezi
M4     Ndola -             29 km    3 km    11 km       4.0     12 %       3.6     4.1 - 5.8
Mwambeshi
M6     Kafulafuta -         4 km            30 km       1.3     23 %       1.1     4.0 - 6.1
Luanshya                                                                            l
M9     Lusaka -            36 km    10 km    33 km     3.9      22 %      4.9      4.5 - 10.0
Mumbwa
M9     Mumbwa-             27 km    13 km    26 km      1.7     18 %      4.1     4.0 - 10.0
Mongu



- 87-
Annex 4-1
Page 5 of 7
Table C
Sensitivity to Traffic Growth
ERR at 1%    ERR at 3%    ERR at 5%
Traffic      Traffic      Traffic
Route                                    Growth p.a.  Growth p.a.  Growth p.a.
No.           Proposed Section          (Low Case)  (Base Case)  (High Case)
TOOI   Zimbabwe Border - Livingstone        22 %         25 %          27 %
T002    Chirundu - Kafue                    20 %         23 %          27 %
T002    Kapiri Mposhi - Serenje             N.A.          15 %         19 %
T002    Serenje - Mpika                     N.A.          14 %         N.A.
T003    Chingola - Kasumbalesa              37 %         42 %          47 %
T004    Km 233 - Km 260 at Kachalola        13 %          16%          19%
T005    Chingola - Solwezi                  14 %          18 %         21 %
M004   Ndola - Mwambeshi                    10 %          12 %         14 %
M006   Kafulafuta - Luanshya                21 %         23 %          25 %
M009   Lusaka - Mumbwa                      20 %         22 %          25 %
M009   Mumbwa - Mongu                       15 %          18 %         21 %
Table D
Sensitivity to Capital Cost Variations
% Capital Cost Increase
Route                                     to Yield 0 NPV at 12 %
No.            Proposed Section              Discount Rate
TOOl   Zimbabwe Border - Livingstone             70.0 %
T002   Chirundu - Kafue                          59.5 %
T002   Kapiri Mposhi - Serenje                   27.3 %
T002   Serenje - Mpika                            12.7%
T003   Chingola - Kasumbalesa                    104.6 %
T004   Km 233 - Km 260 at Kachalola               17.0 %
T005   Chingola - Solwezi                        28.8 %
M004  Ndola - Mwambeshi                           0.0 %
M006  Kafulafuta - Luanshya                      50.5 %
M009  Lusaka - Mumbwa                            55.6 %
M009  Mumbwa - Mongu                             30.1 %



- 88 -
Annex 4-1
Page 6 of 7
Table E
Economic Analysis for the Great North Road Sections 3 and 4
Routine+Periodic Maintenance vs. No Maintenance
Section 3                        Section 4             Section 4 with traffic from TAZARA
Year        Costs   VOC saving Total Benefit   Costs   VOC saving Total Benefit  Costs   VOC saving Total Benefit
1    2.53       0.00      -2.53       1.12       0.07      -1.05       4.12       0.18      -3.94
2    0.17       0.12      -0.05       2.00       0.08      -1.92       0.21       0.26       0.05
3    0.17       0.25       0.08       1.00       0.10      -0.90       0.21       0.35       0.14
4    0.17       0.39       0.22       0.21       0.10      -0.11       0.21       0.42       0.21
5    0.17       0.55       0.38       0.21       0.10      -0.11       0.21       0.79       0.58
6    0.17       0.70       0.53       0.21       0.11      -0.10       0.21       1.22       1.01
7    0.17       0.87       0.70       0.21       0.25       0.04       0.21       1.69       1.48
8    1.84       1.05      -0.80       2.31       0.40      -1.90       2.31       2.21       -0.10
9    0.17       1.24       1.07       0.21       0.58       0.37       0.21       2.79       2.58
10    0.17       1.45       1.28       0.21       0.76       0.55       0.21       3.43       3.22
11    0.17       1.67       1.50       0.21       0.97       0.76       0.21       4.13       3.92
12    0.17       1.90       1.74       0.21       1.19       0.98       0.21       4.88       4.67
13    0.17       2.15       1.99       0.21       1.36       1.15       0.21       5.71       5.50
14    0.17       2.91       2.74       0.21       1.54       1.33       0.21       6.61       6.40
15    1.84       3.50       1.65       2.31       1.74      -0.57       2.31       7.59       5.28
16    0.17       3.55       3.38       0.21       1.95       1.74       0.21       8.65       8.44
17    0.17       3.60       3.43       0.21       2.17       1.96       0.21       9.51       9.30
18    0.17       3.65       3.49       0.21       2.41       2.20       0.21       10.44      10.23
19    0.17       3.70       3.54       0.21       2.66       2.45       0.21       11.42      11.21
20    0.17       3.73       3.56       0.21       2.86       2.65       0.21       12.25      12.04
ERR                               22%                               8%                               28%
NPV at 12% in US$ m               3.67                             -1.41                            12.67



- 89 -
Annex 4-1
Page 7 of 7
Table F
Sample Economic Analysis Output
T002 Serenje - Chinsali
Without Project       With Project                 Benefits
Increase in                                 Avoided
Year     VOC      Recurrent    VOC       Capital  VOC saving  Civil Works    Total
Costs                Costs              Expenditure
1   14.26      0.01       14.26      3.20       0.00      -3.19      -3.19
2   14.99      0.01       14.72      5.50       0.28      -5.49      -5.22
3   15.79      0.02       15.32      5.50       0.48      -5.48      -5.01
4   16.64      0.02       15.94                 0.69       0.02      0.72
5   17.55      0.03       16.61                 0.94       0.03      0.97
6   18.52      0.04       17.34                 1.18       0.04       1.22
7   19.51      0.05       18.16      18.50      1.36      -18.46     -17.10
8   20.55      0.05       16.60                 3.95       0.05      4.00
9   21.65      0.05       17.27                 4.37       0.05      4.43
10   22.81      0.06       17.94                 4.87      0.06       4.93
1 1   24.05     0.06       18.64                 5.41      0.06       5.47
12   25.39      0.06       19.37                 6.02      0.06       6.08
13   26.84      0.06       20.16     11.30       6.68      -11.24     -4.56
14   28.40      0.07       18.60                 9.80      0.07       9.87
15   30.09      0.07       19.25                10.84      0.07       10.91
16   31.87      0.07       19.91                11.95      0.07       12.02
17   33.64      0.07       20.61                13.03      0.07       13.10
18   35.27      0.07       21.32                13.94       0.07      14.02
19   36.65      0.08       22.08      2.70      14.57      -2.63      11.94
20   37.82      0.08       22.85                14.97       0.08      15.05
ERR        14%
NPVat 12%      $2.85 m



- 90 -
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
PROJECT TO SUPPORT A
ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
List of Documents in the Project File
Ministry of Communications and Transport: Statement of Communications and
Transport Sector Policy. Draft white paper dated May 1995.
Ministry of Communications and Transport: Road Sector Investment Program
(ROADSIP) Project Proposal. Task Force Report dated February 1996. Final
version dated April 1997.
Ministry of Communications and Transport: "Roads 2001 - The Way Forward".
Workshop at Mulungushi Conference Center, Lusaka, February 27-29 1996.
Workshop communique. Papers prepared for the workshop. Miscellaneous
documentation.
Ministry of Communications and Transport: "Roads 2001 - The Action Plan,
Workshop to Launch ROADSIP," July 9-11, 1997, Lusaka. Paper prepared for
the workshop. Miscellaneous documentation.
Ministry of Communications and Transport: "Environmental Analysis of Road
Sector Investment Program" by Julius Chileshe in association with Chalo
Consultants, July 1996.
Ministry of Communications and Transport: "Study to Improve Management and
Financing of Roads" by Louis Berger International. Draft final report dated
September 1996 with comments of the Government and the World Bank. Monthly
progress reports. Proceedings of a Workshop on How to Improve Road
Management in Zambia, January 16-18, 1996.
Ministry of Communications and Transport: "Establishing a Road Renumbering
and Mapping System for Zambia" by Carl Bro International, May 1996.
Ministry of Local Government and Housing: "A Rural Feeder Road Support
Program" by GITEC Consultants. Inception report dated September 1995.
Monthly progress reports. Report on screening and selection of feeder roads,
assessment and evaluative framework dated September 1996.
Reports on the Great North Road for the Ministry of Works and Supply, Roads
Department:



- 91 -
"Economic Assessment for Kapiri Mposhi-Nakonde Road" by Norconsult, May
1997.
"Economic Analysis of the Great North Road between Kapiri Mposhi and
Nakonde" by VWL International, June 1996.
Engineering Design Reports and Economic Evaluation Reports for
(a) Section 1 Kapiri Mposhi-Serenje by Carl Bro International
(b) Section 2 Serenje-Mpika by RITES/Burrow Binnie Zambia
(c) Section 3 Mpika-Chinsali by Gauff Ingenieure
(d) Section 4 Chinsali-Nakonde by VWL International
Engineering and economic reevaluation for Section 1 by COWI Consult.
Ministry of Works and Supply: "Highway Management System" by Carl Bro
International in association with Danish Road Directorate and Ranking
Engineering Consultants. Interim Report dated May 1996. Various Working
Documents and System Manuals. HMS output, cost assumptions, economic
analysis for the core investment program 1997-2002.
Ministry of Works and Supply, Roads Department: "Equipment Management and
Maintenance Study" by Crown Agents Institutional Development Group. Final
report dated September 1996 with Government and World Bank comments.
Ministry of Works and Supply, Roads Department: "The Civil Works
Construction Industry, The Building Construction Industry, The Consulting
Services in Zambia" by Kampsax International in association with Brian
Colquhoun, Hugh O'Donnell and Partners (Zambia). Final report dated July 1996
with Government and World Bank comments.
Ministry of Works and Supply, Roads Department: "A Study of Labor-Based
Contracting in Zambia" by IT Transport. Final report dated November 1995.
Restructuring Report for the Ministry of Works and Supply by Management
Development Division, Cabinet Office dated November 1994.
Cap 464 Roads and Road Traffic Act and amendments.
Statutory Instruments and other legal instruments pertaining to the National Roads
Board and the Road Fund.
United Nations Development Program/United Nations Capital Development
Fund: Project Agreement for Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Feeder Roads in
Eastern Province.



- 92 -
Supplemental Annexes
(1)  Organizational Charts
(2) Road Network Data
(3) Vehicles per Population 1992
(4)  Comparative Road Accident Statistics
(5) Detailed Project Costs
(6)  Description of the Community Accessibility Component
(7) Description of Construction Industry Development Program
(8) Financing Local Revenue Requirements
(9) Project Implementation Organization
(10) Standard Packaging Plan and Indicative Packaging Plan for IDA Funded
Civil Works
Staff working papers as follows:
(1)  Restructuring of Road Sector Institutions
(2) Terms of Reference
(3) Draft Detailed Implementation Plan
(4) Proposed Classification of Road Contractors
(5) Economic Analysis working papers
(6) Recent Donor Financing for the Road Sector
(7) Environmental Mitigation Plan



IBRD
24                                                                                                                                        3 2                                3
K-h" R.)o                                             TANZANIA
ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM                                                                                                      NIP. F.9.Q     I
1997-2002 MAIN ROADS PRIORITY PROGRAM                                                                                                                                   T Mb-
COMPLETED AFTER 1990 OR ONGOING                         TRUNK AND MAIN ROAD5                       r kkd-o                                                   INI k
OVERLAY / RECONSTRUCTION                                RAILROADS
. . . . .REPAIR / RESEAL
RIVERS
6 K.- b,
o SELECTED CITIES
SWAAAPS
PROVINCE CAPITALS
PROVINCE BOliNDARIES
KASAMA
NATIONAL CAPITAL
WERI'lAlIONAL BOUNDARIFS
c
DEM. REP
(MANSA
OF CONGO
k. PI
SOLWEZ                                                                                                                                                       12
A N G 0 L A
N 0 R T H
W E S T E R N
- - - - - - - - - -11
SI-
?
-p.
MALAWI
14
KABWE
3                               3,4
K,, .[,,o                                                                                                                                                                                                             KENYA
R.ANDA_-
MONGU
OF
TAN7,\r4lA
A
Kl- [11
Ng-           ON.
E R N                                 0                                                                                                                 ANGOLA
Mm-q-y                     ......
S --9P.')k",bP
MOZAMBIQUE
s iD                                                             Z  I M   B A  BW E                                                      ZIMBABIE
NAMIBIA BOTIANA
,cc
Z-b
0                       15C
GSTOrIE
NAMIBI                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH AFRICA
2A
jULY 1-1



