                                 Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                            Report No: 32521

                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (IDA-29930 TF-29564)

                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 70.0 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA

                                    FOR A

              ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT




                               September 30, 2005




Transport
Africa Region

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2005)

                                     Currency Unit = Zambia Kwacha (K)
                            K1,300.00 at appraisal = US$ 1
                                             US$ 1 = K4,700.00 (project end)
                           K1,767.00 (at appraisal)    SDR 1
                              K7,088 (project end)     SDR 1

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                         January   December

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS   = Country Assistance Strategy                  PSRP      = Public Sector Reform Program
DISS  = Dept. of Infrast. & Support Services         PSC       = Project Steering Committee
ECZ   = Environment Council of Zambia
EIA   = Environmental Impact Assessment              RD        = Roads Department
EIRR  = Economic Internal Rate of Return             RDA       = Road Development Agency
EU    = European Union                               RDC       = Rural District Council
GRZ   = Government of the Republic of Zambia         RMI       = Road Management Initiative
GDP   = Gross Domestic Product                       ROADSIP = Road Sector Investment Program
HMS   = Highway Management System                    RTTP      = Rural Travel & Transport Program
ICB   = International Competitive Bidding            RRMP      = Road Rehab. & Maintenance Proj.
IDA   = International Development Association        SAR       = Staff Appraisal Report
IMT   = Intermediate Means of Transport              SDR       = Special Drawing Right
MCT   = Ministry of Transport and Communication      SRP       = Social Recovery Project
MFNP  = Ministry of Finance and National Planning    SRPU      = Social Recovery Proj. Unit
MWS   = Ministry of Works and Supply                 TETAP     = Trans. Eng. & Tech. Asst. Prog.
MLGH  = Ministry of Local Government & Housing       VOC       = Vehicle Operating Costs
NCB   = National Competitive Bidding                 ZNTB      = Zambia National Tender Board
NCC   = National Council for Construction
NGO   = Non-Governmental Organization
NRB   = National Roads Board
NRSC  = National Road Safety Council
NRFA  = National Road Fund Agency




                                    Vice President:   Gobind T. Nankani
                                 Country Director     Hartwig Schafer
                                   Sector Manager     C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Davies B. Makasa

                                           ZAMBIA
           ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8. Borrower Project Evaluation Report                                      33

Project ID: P003236                                                  Project Name: ROAD SEC. INVESTMENT PROG.
                                                                     SUPPORT PROJ.
Team Leader: Davies Bwalya Makasa                                    TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: ROAD SEC. INVESTMENT PROG. SUPPORT                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-29930; TF-29564
                            PROJ.
   Country/Department: ZAMBIA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (89%); Central government administration
                            (8%); Vocational training (2%); General transportation sector (1%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (P); Pollution management and environmental health
                            (S); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/29/1993                                     Effective: 03/13/1998                03/13/1998
     Appraisal: 06/20/1996                                         MTR: 03/31/2000                  12/12/2000
      Approval: 10/14/1997                                      Closing: 03/31/2003                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT/GRZ
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Hartwig Schafer                                Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Sector Manager:                 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham                         Yusupha B. Crookes
Team Leader at ICR:             Davies Bwalya Makasa                           Stephen J. Brushett
ICR Primary Author:             Ehsan Qureshi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overriding goal of the Government for the road sector was to facilitate economic growth and
diversification, particularly in the agriculture sector through appropriate investments in road
infrastructure and through a sustainable system for the financing and management of the road
network. The Government's medium term program, Road Sector Development Program
(ROADSIP), was expected over a 10 year time horizon, with the following specific objectives:

(a)     Bringing a core road network of 33,500 kilometers into maintainable condition;
(b)     Bringing the condition of the road network to at least 50% good and about 10% poor for
all type of roads;
(c)     Strengthening the technical and managerial capacity of road authorities;
(d)     Creating employment opportunities in the road sector and alleviating poverty through the
creation of 30,000 new jobs in the road maintenance;
(e)     Improving road safety and reducing accidents by at least 20%;
(f)     Improving environmental management in the road sector through establishment of
procedures and guidelines;
(g)     Providing an enabling environment for improved road transport services and increasing the
truck and bus fleet by 20% in rural areas; and
(h)     Developing a framework for the management of community roads and promoting
community participation in road management.

This project addressed the first phase of the program for the period 1997 to 2002, and was
expected to contribute to the realization of the program goals. The five specific objectives of the
project were:

(a)     Reform of the road sector policy and institutional framework, including changes to
the legal framework for roads and road traffic management and strengthening and refocusing the
roles of sector institutions (NRB, Roads Department, and MLGH), aimed at enhancing capacity,
increasing efficiency of the use of resources and improving planning and implementation
performance;
(b)     Strengthening of road sector financing aimed at ensuring the sustainability of the road
maintenance effort and reducing the strain on limited government revenues with the specific
targets of streamlining the functioning of the Road Fund and increasing and diversifying road user
charges to ensure at maximum 70% coverage of periodic and routine maintenance costs of the
core road network by year 2002;
(c)     Strengthening of the local construction and consulting industry in line with country
objectives of creating greater opportunities for the private sector to participate in the design,
construction and maintenance of road and with the specific target of creating 14,000 new jobs by
year 2002;
(d)     Addressing the road maintenance and rehabilitation backlog through a priority
investment program with the specific target of increasing the proportion of main roads in good
condition to about 45% and the proportion of feeder roads in good condition to about 15% of the
road network by year 2002; and




                                                  - 2 -

(e)     Establishing a pilot program for community road management in at least three
districts to test approaches for sustainable improvements in maintenance of these under designed
roads and to promote increased usage of non-motorized transport means.

3.2 Revised Objective:
No revisions were made to project objectives

3.3 Original Components:
The project components as outlined in the SAR included:

(a) Civil Works (79.7% of total project cost). The civil works component focused on priority
needs for road maintenance and rehabilitation for the period 1997 to 2002, and was expected to
cover about 22,000 kilometers of the road core net work. The program also included limited
accessibility improvements of about 17,000 kilometers of feeder roads. The specific target was to
increase the proportion of main roads in good condition to about 45% and the proportion of
feeder roads in good condition to about 15% of the road network by year 2002. The planned
maintenance interventions were categorized as follows:

· Routine maintenance. Planned to cover roads in fair and good condition only. Total volume at
    the start of the project in 1997 was 6,700 kilometers per year, and was expected to increase to
    15,700 kilometers per year by the end of the project in 2002, as more roads were expected to
    be rehabilitated and put on routine maintenance;
· Periodic maintenance. Repair and resealing of about 1,200 kilometers of paved trunk, main,
    and district roads, and regravelling of about 5,400 kilometers of unpaved trunk, main, and
    district roads, with periodicity of periodic maintenance ranging from 6 to 10 years;
· Rehabilitation. Rehabilitation of about 1,200 kilometers of paved trunk roads and main roads,
    and 300 kilometers of paved urban roads;
· Upgrading. Upgrading of about 2,600 kilometers of unpaved district and feeder roads to
    acceptable engineering standards; and
· Improving accessibility. Planned for selected feeder roads to ensure accessibility all year
    round. An initially estimate was about 17,000 kilometers and anticipated to fall gradually to
    14,000 kilometers by 2002. In short the target was to cover about 3000 kilometers of feeder
    roads by the end of the project.

(b) Community Accessibility Program (4.7% of total project cost). The component was aimed
at improving travel and mobility for the poor in rural communities to the markets and to other
essential services. The component was designed to firstly, develop through a pilot program in at
least three selected districts, a community based road management framework to help ensure
sustainability for maintenance of community roads, and secondly, to encourage use of
Intermediate Means of Transport (IMTs). Under the CTI program, the target at appraisal was to
carry out about 70 community based projects, including accessibility improvement of about 500
kilometers of feeder roads. Under the IMT program, no specific target was set.

(c) Construction Industry Development Program (2.3% of total project cost). This
component was aimed at increasing capacity of local contractors and consultants to meet growing


                                                 - 3 -

needs for the road maintenance and rehabilitation, addressing capacity constraints of local
contractors, and ensuring fuller involvement of local contractors, particularly small labor based
contractors, in road maintenance. Specifically the component comprised: (i) technical assistance
for improving Government contracting policies and procedures, including streamlining of
contractor registration procedures, and streamlining the legal framework; (ii) training of
contractors with particular emphasis on labor based methods, and strengthening capacity at the
Roads Training School.

(d) Institutional Capacity Building (7.7% of total project cost). The main aim of this
component was to strengthen sector capacity through restructuring sector institutions and
improving road sector management. The main elements of the component included: (i) policy
support ­ reform of the legal framework for road management and transport, including
streamlining of the Road Fund, and development of the Road safety Action Program; (ii)
Implementation support- technical support to program implementation agencies, including NRB,
Roads Department, and MLGH; (iii) Institutional development ­ supported development of
capacity at NRB, Roads department, and MLGH in the following areas: environmental analysis
and monitoring, contracts management, financial management, and establishment of a Highway
Management System (HMS).

(e) Engineering Services (5.6% of total project cost). This component included technical
assistance for feasibility studies, engineering design and supervision of the maintenance and
rehabilitation works.

3.4 Revised Components:
Original components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not review the project at entry. The ICR team has
assessed the Quality at Entry and rated it as satisfactoy, for the following reasons: (i) the project
objectives were relevant and consistent with the Government's priorities in the transport sector,
with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, and with the previous Bank intervention that
contributed to the development of the Road Sector; (ii) it was a continuation of the Bank's
involvement in the sector through the Transport Engineering and Technical Assistance Project
(TETAP 2515-ZA.), which helped to advance preparation of the ROADSIP. Most of the detailed
designs and project documents were completed under TETAP. The project was prepared with
active participation of government counterparts; (iii) the project's institutional arrangements were
identified, and an implementation/ procurement plan was agreed upon during project appraisal;
and (iv) the quality of design was appropriate and the preparation took into account the Bank's
safeguard policies with special relevance to environmental and resettlement policies.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
(a) Reform of the Road Sector Policy and Institutional Framework. This component is rated
satisfactory. Although the achievement of the final outcome was delayed at various stages of
project implementation, the final results go well beyond what was anticipated for this objective as


                                                  - 4 -

stated in the SAR, as there was no mention of establishment of a completely new sector
institutional structure.

Government in May 2002, adopted a National Transport Policy, and enacted the following
legislations:
National Road Fund Act No. 13 of 2002 - Establishes and defines the functions of the National
Road Fund Agency (NRFA), and the Road Fund; Public Reform Act No. 12 of 2002 - This
establishes the Road Development Agency (RDA), to replace the Roads Department (RD) in the
Ministry of Works and Supply (MWS), and the Department of Infrastructure and Support
Services (DISS) in the Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH). RDA is now
responsible for planning and management of public roads; and Road Traffic Act No. 11 of 2002 -
This establishes and defines the functions of the Road Transport and Safety Agency (RTSA) to
replace the National Road Safety Council (NRSC). RTSA is responsible for road safety, traffic
management, and motor vehicle licensing.

This component was highly successful, even though it is conservatively rated as satisfactory. The
reforms are expected to greatly contribute to improving management and financing of the road
sector in Zambia. The reforms are in line with the RMI reform program and the Bank's strategy
to "bring roads into the market place, put them on a fee-for-service basis, and manage them like a
business".

(b) Strengthening Road Sector Financing. This component is rated moderately satisfactory.
At the beginning of the project in 1998, the target was to ensure that by project end, the Road
Fund would contribute 70% of the total funding requirements for the road network (routine,
periodic and rehabilitation). By project end the actual Road Fund contributions amounted to
about 23% of the total funding requirements.(see Annex 1).

It should be noted that, even though, the above target was not met, Government met the total
funding contribution as estimated at appraisal through budgetary support. It exceeded its
commitment on some activities such as periodic maintenance where it contributed US$136.1
million against a planned estimate at appraisal of US$60.0 million. This said, the objective of the
project was to create a sustainable flow of funds through a Road Fund, supported by diversified
road user charges. Government contribution from budgetary allocation can therefore not be
substituted for a sustainable flow of maintenance funds through a dedicated Road Fund. However,
the Road Fund has created a strong basis for achieving this under the follow up RRMP project.

(c) Strengthening Local Construction Industry. This component is rated satisfactory. During
project implementation, an average of about 15,000 new jobs per year were created, exceeding
the target in the SAR, estimated at 14,000 new jobs per year. The jobs are likely to be sustainable
as the new Road Development Agency will be out sourcing maintenance works on performance
based contracts to small and medium scale contractors. Out of the planned 300 contractors
targeted for routine and periodic maintenance training, about 265 were trained. The number of
local civil engineering consulting firms increased from 10 to 15. The local consultants participated
in the design and supervision of rehabilitation works, and benefited from joint ventures with
foreign consulting firms, through technical skills transfer.



                                                 - 5 -

Although greater opportunities were created for the local construction industry, these could not
be effectively exploited under the project, due to delayed or incomplete action by the NCC to
address contractor constraints. During project implementation, a comprehensive study was
undertaken which reviewed the state of the construction industry in Zambia. The
recommendations of the study are now being used by NCC to draw a National Construction
Strategic Plan for development of the construction industry, under the RRMP project.

(d) Addressing the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Backlog. This component is rated
satisfactory. The target for this component was to increase the proportion of the main roads in
good condition to about 45% and the proportion of feeder roads in good condition to about 15%
by project end. At the end of the project the condition of the main roads improved to between
57% ­ 60%, exceeding the forecasted target. The condition of feeder roads in good condition at
the end of the project was only 7%. However, it should be pointed out that, during project
design, it was anticipated that maintenance interventions on feeder roads would constitute mostly
spot improvements as opposed to full improvement. During project implementation most of the
feeder roads under this component underwent full improvement. The decision to embank on full
rehabilitation instead of spot improvements as planned was dictated by the condition of the road
on the ground. Where the road was impassable for a considerable distance, full rehabilitation was
recommended, but where the road was accessible for a considerable distance spot improvements
were recommended.

Maintenance prioritization for trunk, and main roads were based on economic rate of return
(EIRR) rankings. Maintenance prioritizations for feeder roads were based on a Social Economic
Justification Index (SEJI). The SEJI took into account network considerations (connectivity),
social factors (demographic, intensity of social infrastructure, and employment creation potential),
and economic factors (agriculture production potential, planned development activities, and
current/ historical agriculture surplus). The maintenance and rehabilitation effort will go a long
way in reducing vehicle operating costs (VOCs) on the improved roads, and the savings to the
economy accruing from the differentials in VOCs before and after improvement of the roads,
especially the trunk roads are likely to be substantial as is depicted under economic analysis,
(section 4.3).

(e) Establish Community Based Road Management and Introduce IMTs in three
Districts. This component is rated satisfactory. The component focused on improving
accessibility and mobility in the rural communities to enable the pro-poor access to
social-economic amenities, through: (i) improvement of Community Transport Infrastructure
(CTIs), including introduction of community based road maintenance management; and (ii)
introduction and encouragement of the use of Intermediate Means of Transport (IMTs) or
non-motorized means of transport.

Community based road management pilot program ­ Pilot projects were set up in three districts
in which communities participated in improvement of community roads, and trained in basic road
maintenance skills. Once the works were completed, tools were left with the participating
communities for their use, as and when need arise. The results in the first three districts were quite



                                                 - 6 -

overwhelming such that, the program was introduced in six other districts. The program is likely
to improve community transport infrastructure at village levels, and greatly improve accessibility
and mobility in rural communities. However, even though communities are willing to repair their
roads, the government has not put in place a coherent structure at village or community levels that
would stimulate and support the continuity of community participation in road management. Thus
the exercise remains largely voluntary on the part of communities.

Non-motorized means of transport (IMT) pilot program ­ An IMT pilot program was set up in
Mpongwe district and an external review on the pilot program indicate that: (a) with the
introduction of IMTs in the district, households have increased their carrying tonnage compared
to head loading. Women are now able to carry more firewood, and more agricultural produce to
the markets. Households owning IMTs have been able to hire out IMTs within the community for
tranporation purposes. This has improved the levels of household disposable incomes; (b) the
beneficiaries have reported that, with the acquirement of IMTs, it has been easier to follow-up on
agricultural extension services, and this has improved the yield of agricultural production in
comparison to times when there were no IMTs. To assure sustainability of the IMT program in
Mpongwe, a Trust Fund has been created, where IMTs, are loaned to the beneficiaries. However,
loan repayments are very low, and pose serious challenges to the sustainability of IMTs.
Following the successful implementation of the program in Mpongwe district, the program was
rolled out to 4 other districts, namely, Zambezi, Kalabo, Chibombo, and Sinazongwe.

4.2 Outputs by components:
In this section, the planned targets set at the beginning of the project, are compared with actual
outputs under each of the components. These comparisons are also itemized in Annex 1, under
key performance indicators (KPI). Financing for each component is presented in Annex 2.

(a) Civil Works (SAR US$347.3 million, ICR US$428.6 million, 79.7% of total project).
The civil works component is overall rated satisfactory. As mentioned earlier, the civil works
component focused on the priority needs for road maintenance and rehabilitation for the period
1997 to 2002, and was expected to cover about 22,000 kilometers of the road network, including
limited improvement of about 17,000 kilometers of feeder roads, and upgrading of selected feeder
roads to minimum engineering standards. All earmarked activities under the civil works
component were completed except for the Chingola ­ Kasumbalesa road which was not
rehabilitated as planned because of delays in the preparation of the engineering designs. This was
in part due to delays by the consultant in preparing the engineering designs and also due to the
inconsistent comments from the team which caused the consultant to continually revise the
designs. The resources earmarked for Chingola-Kasumbalesa road civil works were reallocated
to periodic maintenance of the Siavonga road, Lusaka - Makeni road, Makeni - Kafue road and
the Lusaka-Kabwe road (up to km 55). These periodic maintenance works were successfully
completed under the project.

The out puts under various maintenance interventions are as follows:

Routine Maintenance (SAR US$70.1 million ­ ICR US$47 million): This sub-component focused
on roads in good and fair condition. The program was not financed by IDA, but was financed
through the Road Fund. At the start of program, it was estimated that, the Road Fund would be


                                                  - 7 -

able to finance routine maintenance of about 6,700 kilometers per year of the core road net work.
It was further estimated that, by the end of the project, the Road Fund would be able to finance
routine maintenance for about 15,700 kilometers per year. However, at project end, the Road
Fund supported an average of about 10,246 kilometers road length per year of routine
maintenance, which is about 65% of the originally planned routine maintenance. This
subcomponent is rated satisfactory.

Periodic Maintenance (SAR US$74.4 million, ICR US$38.7 million): This subcomponent
focused on preserving the road network from further deterioration. IDA financed US$13.7 million
against the appraisal estimate of US$8.3 million, and the Borrower funded US$25 million out of
the estimated US$66.1 million forecasted at appraisal. Out of the planned target of 6,600
kilometers, at the start of the project about 1,802 kilometers of the core road network under went
periodic maintenance, about 27% of what was originally planned at appraisal. The target could
not be met probably due to the fact that, Government increased its contribution under the
rehabilitation subcomponent. However, in terms of the target set at appraisal, this subcomponent
is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

Rehabilitation (SAR US$145.0 million, ICR US$326.1 million): A total of US$145 million was
allocated for this subcomponent out of which IDA financed US$23.70 million against US$35.00
million estimated at Appraisal, and the Borrower contributed US$136.1 million against US$60
million estimated at appraisal, and other donors contributing US$166.3 million against US$50
million forecast at appraisal. Out of a planned total length of 1,500 kilometers of roads at
appraisal, a total length of 3,129 kilometers of the core road network under went rehabilitation,
about 209% of what was originally planned at appraisal. This subcomponent exceeded the
planned target because Government and other donors contributed more funding than estimated at
appraisal. This subcomponent is rated satisfactory.

Feeder Road Upgrading (SAR US$33.8 million, ICR US$14.5 million): This subcomponent
focused on upgrading non-engineered feeder roads to acceptable engineering standards before
placing them under routine maintenance. IDA financed US$9.50 million against an appraisal
estimate of US$10.40 million. Out of a planned length of 2,600 kilometers, a total of 3,601
kilometers length of feeder roads underwent upgrading to minimum engineering standard. This is
about 139% of the originally planned estimate at appraisal. This sub component is rated
satisfactory.

Accessibility Improvement (SAR US$24.0 million, ICR US$2.3 million): This subcomponent
focused on improving accessibility through spot improvements for non-engineered feeder roads
which were not covered under upgrading subcomponent. IDA financed US$2.30 million against
an appraisal estimate of US$4.20 million. At the start of the program, about 17,000 kilometers
length of feeder roads was expected to be placed under spot accessibility improvements, and the
volume of spot improvements was expected to fall to 14,000 kilometers as some of the selected
feeder roads were being upgraded during the program. At the end of the project, it was not clearly
known as to how many kilometers of feeder roads were made accessible through spot
improvements. It is expected that, a portion of the length of feeder roads made accessible through
spot improvements may have been mistakenly captured under the subcomponent on feeder road



                                                 - 8 -

upgrading and or vice versa. This problem is attributed to lack of a coherent monitoring and
evaluation system during project implementation. The subcomponent is rated moderately
satisfactory.

(b) Community Accessibility Program (SAR US$6.3 million, ICR US$3.4 million, 4.7% of
total project cost). This component is overall rated satisfactory. A total of US$ 3.4 million was
financed by IDA against Appraisal Estimate of US$2.10 million. As mentioned under paragraph
4.1 (e), this component focused on improving accessibility and mobility in the rural communities
to enable the pro-poor access to social-economic amenities, through: (i) improvement of
Community Transport Infrastructure (CTIs), including introduction of community based road
maintenance management; and (ii) introduction and encouragement of the use of Intermediate
Means of Transport (IMTs) or non-motorized means of transport.

Under the CTI program, about 70 community based projects were planned at appraisal, which
included improving accessibility of about 500 kilometers length of community roads. However,
due to a limited funding envelope, only 56 projects were approved. All the 56 planned projects
were carried out, and about 496 kilometers of community roads were made accessible, about 99%
of the originally planned target at appraisal. Initially the program was carried out in districts in the
Luapula Province. However, due to demand by other communities in other districts the program
was rolled out to three other provinces, namely, Northern Province, North Western Province, and
Western Province respectively. Additionally, the communities were trained in basic road
management to ensure that they continued maintaining CTIs in their respective communities. This
subcomponent is rated highly satisfactory.

Under the IMT program, a pilot was set up in Mpongwe district, where various IMTs were
introduced, including donkeys and donkey carts, oxen and oxen carts, and bicycles. It should be
noted that under this program, there was no baseline information on poverty in the district,
therefore, it's success is only speculative in terms of community accessibility to social economic
amenities or increase in agricultural productivity. However, in spite of the above short comings,
the IMT program was extended to four other districts, Kalabo, Zambezi, Chibombo, and
Sinazongwe. This subcomponent is rated satisfactory.

(c) Construction Industry Development (SAR US$2.8 million, ICR US$5.4 Million, 2.3% of
total project cost). This component is rated satisfactory. The component was aimed at
increasing capacity of the contractors and consultants. IDA financed US$0.4 million against
US$1.6 million estimated at appraisal. Major output included: establishment of NCC, training of
about 265 small to medium scale contractors in routine road maintenance, out of 300 planned.
Under creation of opportunities to the local small and medium scale contractors, an average of
15,000 jobs per year were created in the road sector, against 14,000 planned jobs per year at the
start of the project. Additionally, consultancy firms increased from 10 to 15.

(d) Institutional Capacity Building (SAR US$7.0 million, ICR US$8.2 million, 7.7% of
total project cost). This component is rated satisfactory. IDA financed US$8.2 million towards
this component against an appraisal estimate of US$3.4 million. Major outputs include: (i) Policy
Support ­ a national transport policy was compiled and adopted by government in May 2002;



                                                  - 9 -

road authority legislation was drafted and enacted by Government in 2002; (ii) Road Safety
Action Plan and support to NRSC ­ A Road Safety Action Plan was compiled, although the
proposed actions were not effected. This was attributed to lack of capacity at NRSC to execute
the program. Support to the NRSC included procurement of traffic patrol vehicles, road safety
education, publicity materials, speed traps, and first aid kits; (iii) Setting up of a Highway
Management System (HMS) - The HMS did not function according to expectations, however,
the road network condition and geometry data base created during the project implementation is
still very useful and can be coupled to other road decision model software such as dTims and
HDM4; (iv) setting up of an Environmental Management Unit (EMU) in the Roads Department;
(v) Training of Staff ­ several key staff in the implementing agencies were trained in financial
management, procurement, project management, and pavement management systems (PMS). The
success of the outputs of the above components vary, however, the interventions have formed a
strong skills base for staff who will be absorbed in the new Road Agencies.

(e) Engineering Services (SAR US$20.8 million, ICR US$20.6 million, 5.6% of total project
cost). This component is rated satisfactory. All activities planned under consultancy services were
completed successfully. Outputs include: several civil works feasibility studies, engineering
designs, and civil works supervision services.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
In calculating the economic benefits, the main assumption is that the main direct benefit from
paved road improvements is the reduction in vehicle operations costs (VOCs) before and after
improvements. The differential in VOCs therefore constitutes a saving to the economy which in
turn should translate in reduced transportation costs for people and goods, when there is a
competition in the road sector.

VOCs for the first year were calculated using HDM4 algorithms. Input data included Average
Daily Traffic (ADT) for the vehicles plying a given road, road length and roughness index (IRI) of
the improved and non-improved road. The ADT used is the actual observed traffic counts on the
given roads obtained from RDA. The economic benefits, and thus the economic rate of return
(EIRR) have been computed using actual construction costs, life cycle maintenance costs over a
20 year design period, and savings in VOCs before and after road pavement improvement. The
savings arising from VOCs before and after road improvements have been increased by 5% for
each year of the road design period. All costs and benefits streams over the 20 year life of the
projects have been expressed in prices at the beginning of ROADSIP I (1998), discounted at 12%
to work out the EIRR.

The ICR economic analysis results indicate an NPV of US$16.72 million, and EIRR of 29.9%.
The strong evaluation results of the road maintenance program confirm the high economic
justification of the maintenance works. The SAR economic analysis results indicated an NPV of
US$14.0 million and EIRR of 17.25%. The results support the robust economic justification of
the project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial analysis was not applicable.




                                                 - 10 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is rated as substantial. The Government adopted in May 2002, a
transport policy, which among others set objectives and strategies for the transport sector aimed
at investing in appropriate transport infrastructure and particularly in the road infrastructure to
support a sustainable and diversified economic growth. The policy has set a foundation for
improvement of various transport modes in Zambia including the road transport sub sector.

With particular reference to the road transport sector, Government has enacted a new legislation
which has ushered in the establishment of Road Agencies, namely the NRFA, RDA, and the
RTSA as described elsewhere in this report. The legislation has strengthened sector institutions,
and will ensure among others: Responsibility ­ establishes clear roles and responsibility among the
sector institutions; Strengthened road sector financing ­ established a Road Fund based on road
user charges to ensure sufficient revenue towards road maintenance. Most importantly, the
establishment and management of the Road Fund outside the Government budgetary system is a
step further in ensuring a sustainable flow of funds towards road maintenance. Currently, fuel
levy is the only source of the Road Fund, however, the Fund is expected to grow as Government
introduces other road user charges to the Road Fund, such as motor vehicle, road licensing,
international freight charges, and weighbridge fines; Ownership - encourages road users and the
general public to take an active role in the management of the road network; and Strengthened
road network management ­ ensure effective management by employing sound business practices
such as outsourcing of maintenance works to optimize usage of available resources.

The Road Agencies are in a process of becoming fully operational. As such, the impact of the
reforms is not yet fully effective. However, the reforms have certainly formed a center stage for a
long term strategic management and financing of the road sector in Zambia, and it is expected
that, the impact of the reforms in the medium to long term is likely to be substantial.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Lack of local capacity in the construction industry negatively impacted on the implementation
progress and in some cases quality of work especially on the feeder roads maintenance. For
example there were about 250 contracts on improvement of feeder roads shared among few
contractors and consultants. This resulted in inadequate supervision of contractors on the part of
consultants and as a result some roads were not constructed to expected standards.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Irregular provision of counterpart funding by government seriously constrained the execution of
the civil works program. Non-payment of the required 10% counter part funding led in some
cases to some contractors to go slow on the works. This contributed to slow execution of the
subprojects.

Erratic releases of the fuel levy to the Road Fund at the beginning and in mid stream of the
project, constrained the targets to be met under routine maintenance.



                                                     - 11 -

Government did not exercise its role as a coordinator of external funding diligently enough. This
is because, even though NRB was/is the ROADSIP I coordinator, not all donors channeled the
funds through NRB. This made it very difficult for NRB to track and capture for monitoring and
evaluation purposes, parallel periodic maintenance and rehabilitation road works which were
carried out by donors through other Government Ministries and Agencies, such as MLGH, Roads
Department, Ministry of Agriculture, and ZAWA. However, this has since changed with the
implementation of the new road reform legislation. Under the RRMP project, funding for road
maintenance and rehabilitation from all donors in the sector, and from Government is channeled
through the NRFA.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system for the project was ineffective. There was no
base-line information on most of the project activities, except for major roads. This adversely
affected the comparability, usability and integrity of the data generated on the project. However,
this anomaly is being addressed under the RRMP project, where a consultancy is under way to
design and implement an effective monitoring and evaluation system.

The implementing agency staff was neither pro-active in supervising consultants and contractors
nor in quickly following up agreed actions with the Bank task team. This laissez-faire attitude on
the part of implementing agency staff, contributed to the slow progress of implementation of the
project activities.

However, within the above constraints, considerable effort was made by NRB to provide regular
reports on the project and to provide sufficient information to provide a comparison of target and
actual performance against certain key indicators.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the total program cost estimated was US$384.2 million, IDA contributing US$70.0
million (SDR 51.5 million), borrower contributing US$251.6 million, and donors contributing
US$62.6 million.
At the end of the project, the actual cost for the program was US$466.2 million. IDA contributed
US$69.2 million (SDR 51.46 million) about 100%, precisely 99.92%, of the original estimate. The
borrower contributed US$185 million and other donors contributed US$212 million. The details
of the project components and the comparison of each of the components between the SAR stage
and the actual are shown in Annex 2.

The Government did not meet their portion of contribution estimated at appraisal, due to fiscal
constraints. However, the donors in the sector exceeded the contribution estimated at appraisal.
This was attributed to increased confidence in the ROADSIP program derived mostly from the
IDA supported, Government led road sector reforms. Towards the end of the project, a sector
financial strategy was undertaken to set up new targets for the domestic funding of periodic
maintenance, and the recommendations are now being implemented under RRMP follow-up
project.

The project was extended twice from March 2003, the initial closure date, for I year to March


                                                    - 12 -

2004, and again for another year from March 2004 to March 2005. Similarly, the DCA was
extended twice, and amended three times to reallocate credit proceeds amongst different
categories. The reasons for reallocation were: (i) revisions in the scope of civil works and cost
increases; (ii) extension and amendment of small works ceiling from US$50,000 to US$100,000
per contract in order to commission works under the Emergency Drought Recovery Program; and
(iii) to enable the borrower to finance all expenditures for civil works for periodic road
maintenance at 90% instead of the prevailing arrangement of reducing IDA funding from 90% to
30% depending on the level of withdrawals under Category 1A, as it was recognized that the
Government was not able to fund progressively higher proportion of expenditures as projected at
appraisal. The details of the project components and the comparison of each of the components
between the SAR stage and the actual are shown in Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated likely. As mentioned earlier, although the impact is not
yet effective, the enactment of the new road reform legislation, which establishes new Road
Agencies, has set a center stage to revolutionize the way the road sector will be managed and
financed in Zambia.

The creation of the Road Fund outside the Government budget system is likely to strengthen
financing of the road sector maintenance requirements. The creation of the three Road Agencies
will help to ensure that key players in the road sector have clear roles and responsibilities. This
will bring about efficiencies in the management of roads, and economic utilization of resource.

The involvement of the road users (private sector) at Board level in the Road Agencies is likely to
provide the required ownership and acceptability by the road users. The road users are now
becoming increasingly aware on the connection between road condition and vehicle operating
costs (VOC), and about the benefits of having a road in good condition.

Staff of the new Road Agencies will be exempted from civil services conditions of service. This is
likely to motivate the staff of the new Road Agencies in applying themselves to the cause of road
management and preservation of the road network. Additionally, the agencies are moving away
from for example the traditional force account way of doing business, and are being encouraged
to out source works to the private sector so as to get competitive prices and value for money on
road maintenance projects.

However, with the current emphasis on poverty reduction, continued future funding for the road
infrastructure is going to depend more than ever, on a demonstrated poverty reduction impact of
sector investment and maintenance. This is going to obviously have implications in future
transport policy formulations, as well as for the way in which road sector institutions are
managed, and the way in which they present their results.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition from Government traditional departments to new Road Agencies was smooth, and
no major bottlenecks were experienced. This is because: staff and resources under the former



                                                  - 13 -

NRB continued to work under the newly formed NRFA; staff and resources under the former
Roads Department continued to work under the newly RDA; and staff under the former NRSC
continued to work under the newly formed RTSA. However, all positions in the Agencies will be
advertised to the open labor market.

At the time, of compiling the ICR, former Directors of the Roads Department, NRB, and NRSC,
and agencies had already been appointed interim Directors of the new Road Agencies, pending
appointment of directors from the labor market. Overall, there was continuity in the operations of
the agencies as almost the same institution continued to operate, only this time, in a different legal
framework, and probably with much more autonomy.



7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Lending is rated satisfactory. During identification, the task team ensured that development
objectives and project scope were consistent with the Government's PRSP and the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The project preparation team complied with all relevant
safeguard policies. An Environmental Management Committee (EMC) was put in place with
public and private sector participation and an action plan, including an environmental mitigation
plan, was drawn up and adopted by Government. The economic evaluation correctly assessed the
project's viability for the major works. Bank staff appraised the project thoroughly and in close
coordination with the Borrower. The project objectives were clear and specific and the
development stage appropriate. All the components of the project supported the project
objectives. However, though monitoring indicators were identified at appraisal, baseline data
were not established, nor proper Monitoring and Evaluation system put in place to measure the
impact of project interventions.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. Bank supervision team, both from Washington and
Country Office attributed greatly towards the success of the project. The supervision was regular,
focused, inclusive and proactive throughout the implementation period. The Team connected well
with their counterparts and other stakeholders. Given the identified risks, early Bank's supervision
missions carefully monitored the counterpart funding situation and proactively sought to solve key
problems. Technical decisions regarding the project were made with due consultations with all
parties concerned (Implementing Agencies & Donors).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank's performance is rated satisfactory for the reasons outlined above.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation is satisfactory. The Bank under an efficient and intense collaboration with
government, led the project preparation, while the Government provided all required information
and other inputs. The Government performance overall during the project preparation is assessed



                                                - 14 -

satisfactory.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated moderately satisfactory. Government showed
a lot of commitment in initiating reforms through adoption of an enabling transport policy,
enactment of new road sector legislation, and actual establishment of the new Road Agencies.
These road reforms are expected to impact positively on the management and financing of roads.
However, Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory for the following reasons:
Government did not meet its financing obligations in a timely manner, counterpart funding
releases were irregular resulting in delays in payments to contractors, a situation which resulted in
some contractors slowing down on major civil works; even though Government budgetary
support to the project was satisfactory, it did not diversify the road user fees as planned at the
beginning of the project to ensure a steady and sustainable funding through the Road Fund for
maintenance purposes.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the implementing agencies is satisfactory. The main coordinating agency, NRB,
had a fully dedicated team of professional accountants, procurement specialist, and engineers, and
did everything possible to work within the counterpart funding constraints. However, the other
implementing agencies, Roads Department, and MLGH, implemented project activities at a slow
pace. This was mainly attributed to lack of capacity, to supervise consultants and contractors
effectively. However, even though the pace of implementation was slow, the implementing
agencies did manage to execute all the planned activities under their jurisdictions. Capacity of the
new Road Agencies is being enhanced under the RRMP project, to ensure that the agencies carry
out their mandate effectively.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Even though the Borrower was slow at
implementing the project, all planned activities under the project were completed, and in some
cases targets surpassed. The most important achievement made by the Borrower under the project
has been its satisfactory adoption and implementation of the transport sector policy, and in
particular the road reforms and institutional framework, and streamlining of the Road Fund to
operate outside the budget system. This has clearly set a strong foundation for among others:
strengthening of the road sector financing; strengthening of sector institutions; and involvement of
road users or private sector in the management of roads. The impact of these reforms in the road
sector is likely to be substantial.

8. Lessons Learned

Monitoring and Evaluation System should be emphasized early in the project. The absence
of an M&E system made tracking of the project's physical progress very difficult. It was also
difficult to be pro-active in resolving potential project activity problems because of lack of reliable
information. Later during compilation of the ICR, it was difficult to retrieve some key
performance indicator data, and in instances where information was captured, data integrity was
not assured. The inability of a project to demonstrate its broader impact on the economy and
society could have negative consequences for future funding. It is therefore, recommended that,



                                                  - 15 -

an M&E system and baseline information for project activities should be emphasized upon early in
the project. This will greatly enhance project management, such as tracking the implementation
progress, as well as quantifying either qualitatively or quantitatively the impact of the project on
the economy and stakeholders.

Output Indicators should be realistic. Target output indicators should be realistic and
attainable. In this project, the target for the Road Fund to cover 70% of all road network
maintenance requirements was un-attainable against the background of the road maintenance
backlog deferred over decades. This was realized by the Borrower and acknowledged by the Bank
task team towards the end of the project. The impact of over estimating targets is inherent in the
wrong estimation and rating of effort expended in a project activity by the Borrower.
From the project experience, it is recommended that, every opportunity should be seized when
ever possible, and reasonably so, to rebase or refocus targets, perhaps at mid-term review in
order to create realistic, and achievable, and updated output and outcome targets.

Reform process should be consultative, and transparent. Design and implementation of
institutional reforms is a lengthy process and demands a sustained dialogue among all
stakeholders, including public institutions, donors, private sector, and civil society. Government
and road users should own the reform process and most importantly, the process should be as
transparent as possible. A deliberate campaign and education of various stakeholders should be
embarked upon. This is important as stakeholders should be able to accept for example the road
levies that Government may impose on them to meet road network maintenance requirements.

CTI and IMT programs should be synchronized, simple and focused complete with baseline
information on poverty and accessibility. From the project experience, the following lessons
can be drawn from the community accessibility program: small focused infrastructure
improvements can have significant local level benefits for which communities are prepared to help
fund improvements, either in cash or in kind; infrastructure improvements are not likely to be
sustainable, unless corresponding improvements in transport services, including access to IMTs
are provided in a parallel manner; and where there are limited resources, spot accessibility
improvements to critical sections of the feeder roads, especially at river or stream crossings is
more strategic, and optimizes usage of resources compared to full rehabilitation. This strategy
could probably be extended to district roads under local authorities. Finally, but not least, the
project has demonstrated that, it is virtually impossible to have a feel of the impact of the CTI
and IMT programs without base line information, and properly thought out poverty and
accessibility assessment tools.

Bank task teams should be consistent with their comments on Borrower's design works to
avoid delays in starting and/or completing works. Under this project, the Chingola ­
Kasumbalesa road, one of the inter-territorial trunk roads, was not rehabilitated. This was
attributed to the slow responses by the consultant engineer to the team comments, but more
importantly, due to the team's inconsistent comments, thus causing the consultant to continually
revise the designs. Based on this experience, it is recommended that, in the event that task teams
are changed, the comments of the previous task team should, as much as possible and within
reason, be maintained in the spirit of moving the project forward. Task teams should by all means



                                                  - 16 -

endeavor to help the Borrower complete project tasks expeditiously, and not to be seen as
impending progress.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower Project Evaluation Report and comments are presented in Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:
        N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
        N/A

10. Additional Information

Additional comments on the background of ROADSIP and the evolution of the Road Fund in Zambia is presented
in Annex 9.




                                                   - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




                                        - 18 -

- 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
A. Civil Works
    - Routine maintenance of the core network               70.10           47.00               67
    - Periodic maintenance of the core network              74.40           38.65             51.9
    - Rehabilitation of selected roads                     145.00          326.15            224.9
    - Upgrading of feeder roads                             33.80           14.50             42.9
    - Accessibility improvement for feeder roads            24.00             2.30             9.6
B. Community Accessibility Program                           6.30             3.40            53.9
C. Construction Industry Development Program                 2.80             5.40           192.8
D. Institutional Capacity Building                           7.00             8.20           117.1
E. Engineering Services                                     20.80           20.60               99

Total Baseline Cost                                        384.20          466.20
 Physical Contingencies                                                                      121.3
                          Total Project Costs              384.20          466.20
                   Total Financing Required                384.20          466.20


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            46.90          17.30         5.00         283.40       352.60
                                    (41.30)       (15.10)      (3.60)          (0.00)      (60.00)
2. Goods                             0.60           0.60         0.00          0.00         1.20
                                    (0.50)         (0.50)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.00)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00         9.00          21.40        30.40
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (9.00)          (0.00)       (9.00)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            47.50          17.90        14.00         304.80       384.20
                                    (41.80)       (15.60)      (12.60)         (0.00)      (70.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            39.60          17.30        0.00         375.00        431.90


                                                - 20 -

                                          (36.60)           (16.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (52.60)
   2. Goods                                0.00               0.70              0.00             0.00              0.70
                                          (0.00)             (0.70)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.70)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00             16.00             17.60            33.60
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (15.90)            (0.00)           (15.90)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                39.60             18.00             16.00            392.60            466.20
                                          (36.60)           (16.70)           (15.90)            (0.00)           (69.20)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
A. Civil Works                59.00        238.30       50.00       49.20        208.00     171.40      83.4      87.3    342.8
B. Community                   2.10         4.20                     3.40                               161.9     0.0
Accessibility Program
C. Construction Industry       1.60                      1.20        0.40                    5.00       25.0              416.7
Development Program
D. Institutional Capacity      3.40         3.60                     8.20                               241.2     0.0
Building




                                                          - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits



 A. Road Basic Data
Province                                                Central
District name                                           Serenje
 Name of road                                           Kapiri-Mposhi - Serenje

 Road code                                              T2
Road length                                                                                         200 km
 Standard Conversion                                                                     0.9
 factor
Area under road zone of
influence
 Discount rate                                                                                      12%
 Total capital cost of                                                                          Financial         Economic
 rehabilitation
                                                                                                                              32,000,000.0028,80
                                                                                                                                        0,000.00
 Daily wage rate/ shadow                                                                             1.00               0.90
 wage rate


 Estimated avarege road                                                  Good           Bad
 roughness before and
 after road rehabilitation
                                                                                                                                        2.508.50
 B. VOCs servings
 (Economic)
 Type of vehicle             ADT          Road Length   VOC/ km                 VOC/ km      VOC          Daily VOC          Annual Base
                                                                                Good Road    Poor Road    Savings /km        SavingsYear
                                                                                                                             Benefits
                                                                                                                             312.00
 Light vehicle                       160         200.00                   0.18          0.24         0.06           1,952.64          609,223.68
 Taxis                                             120                  200.00          0.19         0.25               0.06  1,555.20485,222.40
Buses                                                 50                200.00          0.26         0.40               0.14  1,350.00421,200.00
 Heavy vehicle                       150         200.00                   0.53          0.77         0.24           7,322.40        2,284,588.80
 Total                                             480  (Total Annual Base       3,800,234.8
                                                        Year Cost Savvings                 8
                                                        (312 days / Year)


 C. Economic Analysis



Year                         Project      Routine       Periodic                Total        VOC          Total              Total
                            Costs         Maintenance   Maintenance             Costs        Savings      Benefits           Net Benefits
                                         Costs          Costs
                           1 9,600,000.00                                        9,600,000.00                                        -9,600,000.00

                           2 9,600,000.00                                        9,600,000.00 3,800,234.8       3,800,234.88       -5,799,765.12
                                                                                                        8
                           3 9,600,000.00                                        9,600,000.00 3,990,246.6       3,990,246.62       -5,609,753.38
                                                                                                        2
                           4                  192,000.00                           192,000.00 4,189,758.9       4,189,758.96        3,997,758.96
                                                                                                        6
                           5                  288,000.00                           288,000.00 4,399,246.9       4,399,246.90        4,111,246.90
                                                                                                        0
                           6                  384,000.00                           384,000.00 4,619,209.2       4,619,209.25        4,235,209.25
                                                                                                        5
                           7                  480,000.00                           480,000.00 4,850,169.7       4,850,169.71        4,370,169.71
                                                                                                        1
                           8                  576,000.00                           576,000.00 5,092,678.2       5,092,678.20        4,516,678.20
                                                                                                        0
                           9                  672,000.00                           672,000.00 5,347,312.1       5,347,312.11        4,675,312.11
                                                                                                        1
                          10                  768,000.00                           768,000.00 5,614,677.7       5,614,677.71        4,846,677.71
                                                                                                        1
                          11                  864,000.00                           864,000.00 5,895,411.6       5,895,411.60        5,031,411.60
                                                                                                        0
                          12                  960,000.00                           960,000.00 5,895,411.6       5,895,411.60        4,935,411.60
                                                                                                        0
                          13                                        2,400,000.00 2,400,000.0  5,895,411.6       5,895,411.60        3,495,411.60
                                                                                           0            0
                         14                  192,000.00                          192,000.00   5,895,411.6       5,895,411.60        5,703,411.60
                                                                                                        0
                          15                  288,000.00                           288,000.00 5,895,411.6       5,895,411.60        5,607,411.60
                                                                                                        0
                          16                  384,000.00                           384,000.00 5,895,411.6       5,895,411.60        5,511,411.60
                                                                                                        0
                          17                  480,000.00                           480,000.00 5,895,411.6       5,895,411.60        5,415,411.60




                                                                        - 22 -

                                                                                                        0
                          18                  576,000.00                           576,000.00 5,895,411.6       5,895,411.60         5,319,411.60
                                                                                                        0
                          19                  672,000.00                           672,000.00 5,895,411.6       5,895,411.60         5,223,411.60
                                                                                                        0
                          20                  768,000.00                           768,000.00 5,895,411.6       5,895,411.60         5,127,411.60
                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                         EIRR                                  16%
                                                                                                         NPV                     USD 6,102,064.21




 A. Road Basic Data
 Province                                                                       Central
District name                                                                   Serenje
Name of road                                                                    Serenje      Mpiika
                                                                                -
Road code                                                                       T2
Road length                                                                                                            235 km
 Standard Conversion                                                                                  0.9
 factor
Area under road zone of
influence
 Discount rate                                                                                                          0.12
 Total capital cost of                                                                                             Financial           Economic
 rehabilitation
                                                                                                                              10,386,937.829,348,
                                                                                                                                           244.04
 Daily wage rate/ shadow                                                                             1.00               0.90
 wage rate


 Estimated avarege road                                                  Good           Bad
 roughness before and
 after road rehabilitation
                                                                                                                                         3.006.00
 B. VOCs servings
 (Economic)
 Type of vehicle             ADT          Road Length   VOC/ km                 VOC/ km      VOC          Daily VOC          Annual Base
                                                                                Good Road    Poor Road    Savings /km        SavingsYear
                                                                                                                             Benefits
                                                                                                                             312.00
Light vehicle                                         55               235.00           0.19         0.21               0.03    352.46109,969.00
Taxis                                                 50               235.00           0.19         0.22               0.03    342.63106,900.56
Buses                                                 50               235.00           0.27         0.34               0.06    748.71233,597.52
Heavy vehicle                                       100                235.00           0.55         0.67               0.12  2,779.11867,082.32
 Total                                            255   (Total Annual Base                    1,317,549.4
                                                        Year Cost Savvings                              0
                                                        (312 days / Year)
 C. Economic Analysis
 Year                        Project      Routine       Periodic                Total        VOC          Total              Total
                            Costs         Mainenance    Maintenace              Costs        Savings      Benefits           Net Benefits
                                         Costs          Costs
                           1 4,674,122.02                                        4,674,122.02                                        -4,674,122.02
                           2 4,674,122.02                                        4,674,122.02 1,317,549.4       1,317,549.40       -3,356,572.62
                                                                                                        0
                           3                    9,482.44                             9,482.44 1,383,426.8       1,383,426.87         1,373,944.43
                                                                                                        7
                           4                  140,223.66                           140,223.66 1,452,598.0       1,452,598.00         1,312,374.34
                                                                                                        0
                           5                  186,964.88                           186,964.88 1,525,228.1       1,525,228.13         1,338,263.25
                                                                                                        3
                           6                  233,706.10                           233,706.10 1,601,489.5       1,601,489.53         1,367,783.43
                                                                                                        3
                           7                  280,447.32                           280,447.32 1,681,564.0       1,681,564.01         1,401,116.69
                                                                                                        1
                           8                  327,188.54                           327,188.54 1,765,642.2       1,765,642.21         1,438,453.67
                                                                                                        1
                           9                  373,929.76                           373,929.76 1,853,924.3       1,853,924.32         1,479,994.56
                                                                                                        2
                          10                  420,670.98                           420,670.98 1,946,620.5       1,946,620.54         1,525,949.56
                                                                                                        4
                          11                  467,412.20                           467,412.20 2,043,951.5       2,043,951.56         1,576,539.36
                                                                                                        6
                          12                                        1,168,530.50 1,168,530.5  2,043,951.5       2,043,951.56           875,421.06
                                                                                           0            6
                          13                   93,482.44                            93,482.44 2,043,951.5       2,043,951.56         1,950,469.12
                                                                                                        6




                                                                       - 23 -

14    140,223.66            140,223.66  2,043,951.5      2,043,951.56     1,903,727.90
                                                  6
15    186,964.88            186,964.88  2,043,951.5      2,043,951.56     1,856,986.68
                                                  6
16    233,702.10            233,702.10  2,043,951.5      2,043,951.56     1,810,249.46
                                                  6
17    280,447.32            280,447.32  2,043,951.5      2,043,951.56     1,763,504.24
                                                  6
18    327,188.54            327,188.54  2,043,951.5      2,043,951.56     1,716,763.02
                                                  6
19    373,929.76            373,929.76  2,043,951.5      2,043,951.56     1,670,021.80
                                                  6
20    420,670.98            420,670.98  2,043,951.5      2,043,951.56     1,623,280.58
                                                  6
                                      EIRR                         15%
                                      NPV           USD 1,586,418.89




                    - 24 -

A. Road Basic
Data
 Province                                                  Lusaka
District name                                              Lusaka
 Name of road                                              Lusaka -
                                                           Mumbwa
 Road code                                                 M9
Road length                                                                                    79.00 km
 Standard                                                                            0.9
 Conversion
 factor
Area under road
zone of influence
 Discount rate                                                                                    0.12
 Total capital                                                                               Financial                           Economic
 cost of
 rehabilitation
                                                                                                                   6,200,000.005,580,000.00
 Daily wage                                                                         1.00          0.90
 rate/ shadow
 wage rate


 Estimated                                          Good            Bad
 avarege road
 roughness
 before and
 after road
 rehabilitation
                                                                                                                                  3.0010.00
 B. VOCs
 servings
 (Economic)


 Type of          ADT          Road Length   VOC/ km       VOC/ km         VOC           Daily VOC     Annual Base
 vehicle
                                                           Good Road       Poor Road     Savings /km   SavingsYear Benefits
                                                                                                       312.00
Light vehicle                            180        79.00           0.19            0.26          0.08                   1,119.83349,385.40
Taxis                                    100        79.00           0.19            0.27          0.08                     656.96204,972.77
Buses                                      30       79.00           0.27            0.44          0.17                     394.18122,983.66
Heavy vehicle                            100        79.00           0.55            0.84          0.29                   2,319.28723,615.98
 Total                                 410   (Total         1,400,957.81
                                             Annual Base
                                             Year Cost
                                             Savvings
                                             (312 days /
                                             Year)
 C. Economic
 Analysis
 Year             Project      Routine       Periodic      Total           VOC           Total         Total
                 Costs         Mainenance    Maintenace    Costs           Savings       Benefits      Net Benefits
                              Costs          Costs
                1 2,790,000.00                                2,790,000.00                                                      -2,790,000.00
                2 2,790,000.00                                2,790,000.00  1,400,957.81  1,400,957.81                        -1,389,042.19
                3                   55,800.00                    55,800.00  1,471,005.70  1,471,005.70                         1,415,205.70
                4                   83,700.00                    83,700.00  1,544,555.99  1,544,555.99                         1,460,855.99
                5                  111,600.00                   111,600.00  1,621,783.79  1,621,783.79                         1,510,183.79
                6                  139,500.00                   139,500.00  1,702,872.98  1,702,872.98                         1,563,372.98
                7                  167,400.00                   167,400.00  1,788,016.63  1,788,016.63                         1,620,616.63
                8                  195,300.00                   195,300.00  1,877,417.46  1,877,417.46                         1,682,117.46
                9                  223,200.00                   223,200.00  1,971,288.33  1,971,288.33                         1,748,088.33
               10                  251,100.00                   251,100.00  2,069,852.75  2,069,852.75                         1,818,752.75
               11                  279,000.00                   279,000.00  2,173,345.38  2,173,345.38                         1,894,345.38
               12                                697,500.00   697,500.00    2,173,345.38  2,173,345.38                         1,475,845.38
               13                   55,800.00                    55,800.00  2,173,345.38  2,173,345.38                         2,117,545.38
               14                   83,770.00                    83,770.00  2,173,345.38  2,173,345.38                         2,089,575.38
               15                  111,600.00                   111,600.00  2,173,345.38  2,173,345.38                         2,061,745.38
               16                  139,500.00                   139,500.00  2,173,345.38  2,173,345.38                         2,033,845.38
               17                  167,400.00                   167,400.00  2,173,345.38  2,173,345.38                         2,005,945.38
               18                  195,300.00                   195,300.00  2,173,345.38  2,173,345.38                         1,978,045.38
               19                  223,200.00                   223,200.00  2,173,345.38  2,173,345.38                         1,950,145.38
               20                  251,100.00                   251,100.00  2,173,345.38  2,173,345.38                         1,922,245.38
                                                                          EIRR                      31%
                                                                          NPV            USD
                                                                                         6,134,487.97




                                                                    - 25 -

 A. Road Basic Data
 Province                                                                  Copperbelt/
                                                                           North
                                                                           Western
District name                                                              Chingoal/
                                                                           Solwezi
Name of road                                                               Chingoala -
                                                                           Slwezi
 Road code                                                                 T5
Road length                                                                                                   101.00 km
 Standard Conversion factor                                                                          0.9
Area under road zone of influence
 Discount rate                                                                                                    0.12
 Total capital cost of                                                                                       Financial     Economic
 rehabilitation
                                                                                                                        5,600,000.005
                                                                                                                          ,040,000.00
 Daily wage rate/ shadow wage                                                                       1.00          0.90
 rate
 Estimated avarege road                                             Good            Bad
 roughness before and after
 road rehabilitation
                                                                                                                             3.408.00
 B. VOCs servings (Economic)

 Type of vehicle                   ADT          Road Length  VOC/ km       VOC/ km         VOC           Daily VOC     Annual Base
                                                                           Good Road       Poor Road     Savings /km   SavingsYear
                                                                                                                       Benefits
                                                                                                                       312.00
Light vehicle                                            150       101.00           0.19            0.24          0.05  723.80225,82
                                                                                                                                 5.71
Taxis                                                      50      101.00           0.19            0.24          0.05  255.9079,841.
                                                                                                                                   32
Buses                                                      30      101.00           0.28            0.38          0.10  317.1298,940.
                                                                                                                                   62
Heavy vehicle                                            120       101.00           0.56            0.75          0.19  2,282.04711,9
                                                                                                                                96.75
 Total                                                  350  (Total         1,116,604.40
                                                             Annual Base
                                                             Year Cost
                                                             Savvings
                                                             (312 days /
                                                             Year)
 C. Economic Analysis
 Year                              Project      Routine      Periodic      Total           VOC           Total         Total
                                  Costs         Mainenance   Maintenace    Costs           Savings       Benefits      Net Benefits


                                 1  5,040,00.00                               5,040,000.00                                -5,040,000.00
                                 2                 100,800.00                   100,800.00  1,116,604.40  1,116,604.40   1,015,804.40
                                 3                 151,200.00                   151,200.00  1,172,434.62  1,172,434.62   1,021,234.62
                                 4                 206,600.00                   206,600.00  1,231,056.35  1,231,056.35   1,024,456.35
                                 5                 252,000.00                   252,000.00  1,292,609.17  1,292,609.17   1,040,609.17
                                 6                 302,400.00                   302,400.00  1,357,239.63  1,357,239.63   1,054,839.63
                                 7                 352,800.00                   352,800.00  1,425,101.61  1,425,101.61   1,072,301.61
                                 8                 403,200.00                   403,200.00  1,496,356.69  1,496,356.69   1,093,156.69
                                 9                 453,600.00                   453,600.00  1,571,174.52  1,571,174.52   1,117,574.52
                                10                 504,000.00                   504,000.00  1,649,733.25  1,649,733.25   1,145,733.25
                                11                             1,260,000.00 1,260,000.00    1,732,219.91  1,732,219.91     472,219.91
                                12                 100,800.00                   100,800.00  1,732,219.91  1,732,219.91   1,631,419.91
                                13                 151,200.00                   151,200.00  1,732,219.91  1,732,219.91   1,581,019.91
                                14                 201,600.00                   201,600.00  1,732,219.91  1,732,219.91   1,530,619.91
                                15                 252,000.00                   252,000.00  1,732,219.91  1,732,219.91   1,480,219.91
                                16                 302,400.00                   302,400.00  1,732,219.91  1,732,219.91   1,429,819.91
                                17                 352,800.00                   352,800.00  1,732,219.91  1,732,219.91   1,379,419.91
                                18                 403,200.00                   403,200.00  1,732,219.91  1,732,219.91   1,329,019.91
                                19                 453,600.00                   453,600.00  1,732,219.91  1,732,219.91   1,278,619.91
                                20                 504,000.00                   504,000.00  1,732,219.91  1,732,219.91   1,228,219.91


                                                                                          EIRR                      21%
                                                                                          NPV            USD
                                                                                                         2,897,474.53




  EIRR/ NPV OF SELECTED ROADS AT START OF PROJECT


                                                                     - 26 -

Route  Proposed Section      Proposed Intervention Type    NPV at   EIRR      Economic    Roughness
No.                                                        12%                Capital     Range in
                                                           Discount           Cost (US$)  IRI for the
                                                           Rate                           Section
                                                           (US$ m)
                          Rehab. (Km)                      Reconstr Repair /
                                                           .(Km)    Reseal
                                                                    (Km)\
T1     Zimbabwe Border -                                5                   1        0.4    250.45.2
       Livingstone                                                                                -6.6
T2     Chirundu - Kafue                                                   72         2.2    231.44.5
T2     Kapiri Mposhi -                                 39       96        62           5   1520.72.9
       Serenje                                                                                   - 7.8
T3     Serenje Mpika                                                    235          2.9   1414.22.7
                                                                                                  -6.0
T4     Chingola -                                      15                 13         6.1   422.62.9 -
       Kasumbalesa                                                                                7.4
T4     Km 233 - Km 260 at                               11        3         9        0.3   161.37.1 -
       Kacholola                                                                                  9.0
T5     Chingola Solwezi                                        101                   2.2   183.63.4 -
                                                                                                  8.1
M4     Ndola -                                         29         3       11           4   123.64.1 -
       Mwanbaeshi                                                                                 5.8
M6     Kafulafuta -                                      4                  30       1.3   231.14.0 -
       Luanshya                                                                                   6.1
M9     Lusaka - Mumbwa                                 36       10        33         3.9   224.94.5 -
                                                                                                 10.0
M9     Mumbwa - Mongu                                   27      13        26         1.7   184.14.0 -
                                                                                                 10.0



ROADS ATTENDED TO AT CLOSE OF PROJECT

  Route Proposed Section   Proposed Intervention Type     NPV at    EIRR      Economic   Roughness
  No.                                                     12%                 Capital    Range in
                                                          Discount            Cost       IRI for the
                                                          Rate                (US$)      Section
                                                          (US$ m)
                         Rehab. (Km)                      Reconstr. Repair /
                                                          (Km)      Reseal
                                                                    (Km)
  T2    Kapiri Mposhi -                               39        96        62           5 1520.72.9 -
        Serenje                                                                                   7.8
  T3    Serenje Mpika                                                   235          2.9   1414.22.7
                                                                                                  -6.0
 T5     Chingola                                                101                   2.2  183.63.4 -
        Solwezi                                                                                   8.1
 M9     Lusaka -                                       36       10        33         3.9   224.94.5 -
        Mumbwa                                                                                   10.0




                                                 - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/29/1993                1    TTL



 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/20/1996              10     SENIOR OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (TTL, 1);
                                             PRINCIPAL ROADS
                                             ADVISER (1); HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (1); SR.
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             TRANSPORT PLANNER
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (2);
                                             CONSULTANTS - ENGR.
                                             & HWY ENGR (2);
                                             PROCUREMENT &
                                             DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER


 Supervision

              03/13/1998                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (CIS) (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT/DISBURS. (1)
              10/17/1998                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             REGIONAL ADVISER (1); FIN
                                             MGT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1)
              02/11/1999                2    TTL/SR OPERATIONS OFF (1);       S               S
                                             FIN. MGT. SPECIALIST (1)
              05/20/1999                8    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIAL.
                                             (1); HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             RTTP, REGIONAL ADVISER
                                             (1); TRANSPORT ENGINEER
                                             (1); HIGHWAY ENGINEER (C)
                                             (1); FIN MGT SPECIALIST (C)
                                             (1); FIN MGT SPECIALIST (1)
              11/05/1999                6    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1); SR
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);



                                              - 28 -

                 TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);
                 REGIONAL ADVISER (1);
                 TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1)
04/29/2000    5  TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                 HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1); SR.
                 HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                 TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                 CONSULTANT (1)
09/28/2000    3  TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                 HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                 PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1)
06/05/2001    5  TEAM LEADER (1);              S    U
                 ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
                 MGT. SPEC. (1);
                 PROCUREMENT OFF. (1); SR.
                 TECHNICAL SPEC. (1)
09/20/2001    5  TEAM LEADER (1);              S    U
                 HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                 RURAL TRANSPORT SPEC.
                 (1); TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                 (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
05/03/2002    3  SR. OPER. OFFICER(TTL) (1);   S    U
                 HIGHWAY ENGR. (CONS) (1);
                 SR. HWY. ENGR. (1)
10/11/2002    6  TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                 HIGHWAY ENGR. (CONS) (1);
                 SNR. TRANSPORT SPEC. (1);
                 ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                 OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                 PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
03/20/2003    10 TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                 HIGHWAY ENGR. (CONS.) (1);
                 SNR. TRANSPORT SPEC. (1);
                 TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                 LANGUAGE PROG. ASSIST.
                 (1); ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC.
                 (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                 (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                 (1); FINANCIAL MGMT. SPEC.
                 (1); RMI TRANSPORT
                 ECONOMIS (1)
10/20/2003    7  OUTGOING TEAM LEADER          S    S
                 (1); INCOMING TEAM
                 LEADER (1); OPERATIONS
                 OFFICER (1); LANG. PROG.
                 ASSISTANT (1); HIGHWAY
                 ENGINEER (1); CONSULTANT
                 (1); PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                 (1)
03/31/2004    6  TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                 ENGINEER (1); RURAL
                 TRANSPORT (1); TRANSPORT
                 SPECIALIST (1);



                 - 29 -

                                           PROCUREMENT (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1)
               03/31/2004              7   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                           ENGINEER (2);
                                           PROCUREMENT (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
               10/04/2004              5   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SPC. (1);
                                           FIN. MGMT. SPEC. (1); TEAM
                                           ASSISTANT (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            33.3                           75.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 69.5                         212.4
  Supervision                          250.6                       1,031.9
  ICR
  Total                                353.4                       1,319.8




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Implementation Documents
      Aide-Memoirs
      Back to office Reports
      Borrower Quarterly Progress Reports
      Project Status Reports (PSRs)

2. Preparation Documents
      Aide-Memoirs
      Back to Office reports
      Staff Appraisal Report

3.    Mid Term Review Report

4.    ROADSIP II Bankable Document




                                           - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower Project Evaluation Report

                       ZAMBIA ­ NATIONAL ROAD FUND AGENCY

                           EVALUATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                          (IDA 2993 ZA)

         PROJECT TO SUPPORT A ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM

Overall Outline
1.      The Road Sector Investment Program (ROADSIP) is a ten-year program initiated by the
Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) aimed at facilitating economic growth in all social
and economic sectors particularly agriculture through appropriate investment in the road
infrastructure. The principal objectives of the programmed are to:

·       Improve the condition of a core network of roads;
·       Strengthen the management of the road sector;
·       Create employment opportunities;
·       Improve road safety;
·       Improve environmental management;
·       Improve rural transport services; and
·       Improve community roads.

2.      The first phase of ROADSIP, which was five years, was launched in 1998 and completed
in 2003. The table below provides an outline of the first five-year program.

3.      The support from Donors during the implementation of ROADSIP I was higher than
anticipated.

World Bank Support to ROADSIP

4.      The World Bank supported the ROADSIP through an IDA Development Credit
Agreement no. 2993 ZA, which was signed on 15th December 1997 and became effective on 28th
March 1998. The detailed data pertaining the World Bank's support to ROADSIP are tabulated
below:

                   Item                                           Details
 Name of Project:                        Project to a Road Sector Investment Program
 Credit Number:                          2993
 Credit Amount:                          SDR51,5000 (equivalent US$70 million)
 IDA Country and Region:                 Zambia, Southern Africa
 Sector:                                 Transport
   Dates                                  Signing15 December 1997
                                          Effectiveness28 March 1998



                                                - 34 -

                                         Original Closing date31 March 2003
                                         Closing date first extension31 March 2004
                                         Closing date 2nd extension31 March 2005
  Borrower:                             Government of the Republic of Zambia
 Implementing Agency:                   National Roads Board through MWS, MLGH &
                                        ZAMSIF



IDA ROADSIP Funding

5.     During the implementation of IDA ROADSIP project the need to re-align the categories
arose due to changes in interventions and scope of works. Reallocations were made at various
points as shown in the table below. The last column in the table show the actual disbursements
made as at the close of the credit.

  A.           Description         Original    Realloc. 1 Realloc. 2 Realloc. 3        Actual
  Cat                               DCA         02/28/01     12/19/02     06/04/03      Disb
                                   SDR             SDR         SDR       SDR         IDA SDR
 1a        Periodic Road mtce       5,800,000 8,650,000      7,000,000    8,655,000 9,507,000
 1b        Road Rehab. &           35,800,000 26,934,50      28,000,00    26,912,00 27,073,000
           upgrad                                        0           0             0
 1c        Road Rehab. Comm.        1,500,000 1,500,000      2,100,000    1,905,000 2,069,000
 2         Equipment, Veh. &          750,000     700,000      900,000      904,000 533,000
           Mat.
 3a        Consult services &       6,000,000 11,000,00      13,000,50    12,617,50 11,566,000
           train.                                        0           0             0
 3b        Consult services           400,000     400,000      500,000      507,000 474,000
           Comm.
  Unall              1,950,000      100,000
  ocate
  d
           Total                   51,500,00    51,500,00    51,500,00 51,500,00 51,222,000
                                            0            0           0 0



Performance Ratings

6.     There was good cooperation between the World Bank and the borrower during the
implementation stage. The Project Coordinator communicated regularly with the Task Team
Leader in Washington and this ensured that many issues were being resolved quickly. However,
problems where experienced with disbursements due to frequent changes in personnel at the
World Bank Headquarters. Items that were previously considered allowable expenses could be
disallowed, questions could be raised and additional documentation requested where previously
such was not the case. This led to delays in getting replenishments to the Special Account.


                                               - 35 -

7.      Project performance rating of the IDA ROADSIP project from the borrower's point of
view is shown in the table below:

        Item                      Rating          Comment
 1       Outcome                  Satisfactory    No of local contractors and consultants
                                                  increased, Transport Policy in place, Acts in
                                                  place
 2       Sustainability           Likely          Capacity building, increase in fuel levy releases
 3       Institutional            Satisfactory    Restructuring achieved, three road agencies,
         Development Impact                       NRFA,      RDA      &     RSTA        in    place.
                                                  Implementation in progress
 4       Bank Performance         Satisfactory    Had excellent team leader who was supportive
                                                  and issued `no objections' timely
 5       Borrower                 Satisfactory    Had qualified staff in the PIU and understood
         Performance                              IDA procurement requirements fairly well

Practical Achievements

8.      Due to the use of International Competitive Bidding more foreign companies particularly
from South Africa took part in bidding for works in the road sector thus increasing competition.
This resulted in lower prices being charged for undertaking rehabilitation works. A direct benefit
of this was that significant savings were realized on the Great North road making it possible for
the Government to undertake additional periodic maintenance works on the Siavonga road,
Lusaka ­ Kafue road and Lusaka ­ Kabwe road. The following table summarises the
achievements attained under ROADSIP compared with the original list of targets identified for the
project.



  Cat.     Item                IDA                      Achieved
           Description         Funds     Target         by end of          Comments
                               USD       (SAR)          project
                               `000'
          Routine             GRZ       11,050km/yr 12,500 km Placed over 6,880 km of
          Maintenance                                              roads on performance
                                                                   contract for regular mtce
 1a       Periodic            8,300     6,807km        10,499 km Lusaka-Kabwe,
          Maintenance                                              Lusaka-Makeni,
                                                                   Siavonga Road, and
                                                                   various periodic mtce
                                                                   funded by the Road Fund

 1b       Rehabilitation      35,000    1,434 km       2,333 km    Great North Road
                                                                   divided into three lots,



                                                - 36 -

                                                    including urban roads in
                                                    Mpika
1b  Feeder Roads   10,400 1,000 km     1,662 km     Mostly full improvement
    upgrading                                       works funded by IDA
1b  Access Improv. 5,300               1,912 km     Due to shortage of funds
    Feeder Rds                                      some projects could not
                                                    be completed
1c  Rehab. of      2,100  70 projects   52          Spot improvements;
    Community Rds         500 km        projects    culvert, bridge and drift
                                        496 km      construction were done
2   Equipment, MV  1,000                            Motor vehicles, motor
    & Materials                                     bikes, office furniture &
                                                    computers were
                                                    procured
3a  Engineering    3,900                            All feasibility and design
    design & sup                                    services were completed
3a  Intermediate   600                 312donkeys Pilot project in
    Means of                           179 bicycles Mpongwe successfully
    Transport                          35 Carts     implemented and
                                       5 w/barrows replicated in 4 other
                                                    districts
3a  NCC            1,600                            Local contractors
                                                    trained, established NCC
                                                    secretariat, Act enacted
3a  Policy Support 500                              Transport Policy
                                                    formulated in 2000 & 3
                                                    Acts enacted in 2002,
3a   Implementation 1,000               EMU
     Support &                          developed
     capacity                           procedure
     building                           s manual,
                                        resettleme
                                        nt policy
                                        framewor
                                        k and an
                                        Environm
                                        ental
                                        Contract
                                        Clause.
                                        Agencies
                                        created
                                        (RDA,
                                        RTSA and
                                        NFRA)



                                 - 37 -

  3b      Institutional       300                                  Study to support
          Development                                              institutional reforms
                                                                   commenced
         TOTAL               70,000



ROADSIP IDA Project Costs and Financing

9.     The financing as per component compared to the SAR estimate is shown in the table
below:

                                                                Actual/        % of
  Component                                        Appraisal    Latest         Appraisal
                                                   Estimate     Estimate
                                                   USD          USD
                                                   million      million
  A. Civil Work
      Periodic Maintenance                         8.3          13.7           15.%
      Rehabilitation                               35.0         23.7           69%
      Upgrading of Feeder Roads                    10.4         9.5            91%
         Accessibility Improvement of Feeder 2.1                2.3            11.0%
  Roads

  B. Community Accessibility Program               3.3          3.4            94%
 C. Construction Industry Development 1.6                       0.4           19%
 Program
 D. Institutional Capacity Building               5.4           8.2           111%
  E. Engineering Services                          3.9          8.0            246%
  Total Project Cost                               70.0         69.2           99%



Lessons Learnt during Implementation

10.    During the implementation of the various components of the projects a number of lessons
have been learnt which would be used on the follow on ROADSIP II.

10.2 Civil works

a)     Technical audits should be carried out during implementation in order to ensure that the
Contractors and the Consultants are giving the client value for money.
b)     Lack of Counterpart funding caused a lot of delay in the implementation of some civil
works contracts, therefore it is recommended that the counterpart requirement should be removed
on all World Bank financed projects.
c)     The period between completion of the design report and commencement of civil works



                                              - 38 -

should be as short as possible to prevent further deterioration of the pavement thereby
necessitating changes to scope of works.
d)       Procurement of consultant through ICB does not always assure that the client will get the
best consultant as seen in the engineering design of Chingola ­ Kasumbalesa road that took more
than 4 years to complete.
e)       In the implementation of the full and access improvement of feeder roads the
implementing agency was not provided with supervision vehicles hence making it difficult for
them to carry out monitoring activities. In future adequate supervision vehicles should be made
available.

10.1     Community Accessibility Program
This was a poverty alleviation program based on the understanding that geographical isolation is a
fundamental cause of poverty. The implementation of the accessibility program involved the
participation of the community. During implementation it was learnt that value for money could
be achieved if a contractor undertook long stretches of road, large bridges and spot
improvements. Where the community contributed in the rehabilitation or repair of roads
community ownership of the road or project was enhanced.

Local authority involvement on the implementation and promotion of IMTs should be part of the
project implementation framework.

10.2     Construction Industry Development
A lot of foreign firms were awarded civil works contracts. This was mainly due to favorable
prices offered by these firms. This emphasized the need to build technical capacity in the local
contractors to prepare realistic cost estimates as some of their bid prices were almost double that
offered by foreign firms.

A number of small to medium sized contractors lacked equipment to undertake road works or
collateral to use to obtain loans for financing road works. A need was identified to have a plant
pool from where they could hire the equipment.

10.4       Institutional Development and Capacity Building

Environmental Management

·        There is a need to have an environmental specialist on the project implementation team to
ensure that in carrying out any rehabilitation work environmental clauses are enforced
·        Environmental specialist should be involved in the planning and formulation of projects so
that it is easier to follow up the environmental concerns through out the life cycle of the project
·        There is a need to build capacity in environment assessment activities among the
contractors in order to reduce duplication, delays in meeting deadlines and completing projects

Road Safety

·        there is a need to build capacity in terms of equipment, human resources and training;
·        There is need for close cooperation between the traffic police and the Road Transport and



                                                 - 39 -

Safety (formerly NRSC) to ensure that road safety equipment acquire is being utilized properly
and the accident statistics are provided.

Technical Assistance

In order for any technical assistance to succeed in building capacity in the local counterpart it is
important that the Technical Assistance allows the counterpart to be in the `driving seat'. If at all
possible the TA should share the same office with the counterpart staff.

10.5   Engineering Design
Procurement of consultant through ICB does not always assure that the client will get the best
consultant as seen in the engineering design of Chingola ­ Kasumbalesa road which has taken
more than 4 years to complete. Procurement of the design engineers to undertake supervision
through single sourcing reduces the procurement lead time and cost. In addition design changes as
implementation of the civil works contracts proceeds are minimal.

10.6   Donor Coordination
Following the mid-term review of ROADSIP a closer cooperation and coordination began to be
seen among the Donor community supporting the Road Sector. Regular Joint Donor missions
with the EU as chairperson were undertaken in conjunction with the World Bank supervision
missions. This helped to speed up implementation of donor-funded projects and foster closer
cooperation among the donors. The donors that were actively involved in the Joint Donor
missions included EU, Danida, Norad, Kfw and JICA. Danida is one of the donors who funded
routine and periodic maintenance on some roads and does not take too long when it comes to
approving funds for projects.




                                              - 40 -

Additional Annex 9. Additional Information

                  ROAD SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM IN ZAMBIA

Background to ROADSIP: During the 1980s it became obvious that in spite of the efforts by
Governments in the sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) supported by the World Bank and other donors
over a period of twenty five years to build roads, the condition of the roads in SSA countries
continued to deteriorate. A survey done by the World Bank in about 26 countries (1984 ­
1997/88) reviewed that approximately 56% of the paved roads were in poor condition, and of
these half were close to failure or had failed. The position with unpaved roads was worse. Less
than 70% of the network was reported as receiving regular maintenance with expenditure at only
16% of that necessary to maintain a good standard road.

To address the road maintenance problems in SSA, it was decided to institute the Sub- Saharan
Africa Transport Program (SSATP), under the aegis of the World Bank, and as part of this, the
Road Maintenance Initiative (RMI) was set up. Many SSA countries agreed to abide by the RMI
principals, which were/ are: (a) to concentrate available resources on road maintenance, rather
than on new road construction, and direct maintenance efforts on the essential road network; (b)
to encourage greater use of non-governmental organizations (NGOS) in road maintenance; and
(c) to increase effectiveness of Government and donor resources in the road maintenance effort.

Road Reforms in Zambia: Traditionally, transport policy in Zambia was based on the premise
that, road infrastructure was a public utility, that was essential and necessary to meet the needs of
the Zambian people, and therefore the policy was to generate social benefits as opposed to profits.
As such, the maintenance of the road network in Zambia was under the ownership and control of
the central government. In 1991, it was assed that only 20% of the road network in Zambia was in
good condition, and upto 80% of the network was in un-maintainable conditions due to differed
maintenance.

With the awareness of the SSATP program, the following factors were diagnosed to have
contributed to the deplorable condition of the road network in Zambia, viz: (a) inadequate
financing of road maintenance by Government; (b) poor management by line Ministries involved
with the management and maintenance of the road network, usually executing maintenance works
on force accounts; (c) duplication and wastage of resources through the use of several road
agencies and ministries in the management of the road network, with un-clear responsibilities and
roles; and (d) Governments inability to retain qualified staff in the line Ministries due to
un-attractive conditions of service.

Recognizing the above, Government in February 1993 held a stakeholders conference at which it
was expected to make recommendations on how to reform the road sector to address the question
of road financing and management One of then primary recommendations arising from the
conference was the creation of a Road fund, subsequently the National Roads Board (NRB) and
the Road Fund were established in 1993, and the fuel levy was introduced by a statutory
instrument No. 42 of 25 February 1994 to feed into the Road Fund.




                                                  - 41 -

Fuel Levy and Structure of the Fuel price: Fuel levy is charged as a percentage of the whole
sale price (15%), and is collected from the oil marketing firms by the Ministry of Finance and
national Planning through the Zambia Revenue Authority (ZRA). The levy is then released to the
Road Fund. NRB then allocates the funds to the Roads Department for maintenance of trunk,
main, and district roads and to the Ministry of Local Government and Housing for maintenance of
urban and feeder roads. The fuel levy and taxes expressed as a percentage of the wholesale prices
is indicated in Table below.

Fig. 3 Taxes and Levies expressed as a percentage of wholesale price
 Levies and Taxes                            Percentage of Wholesale
                                             Price
VAT                                          17.5
Excise Duty                                  45.0
Road Levy                                    15.0
Total Charge on fuel                         77.5

To expand the Road Fund, the Government is currently considering channeling to the Road Fund
other road user charges, such as the international transient fee, road license fees, and weigh-bridge
fines to the Road Fund.

Transport Policy: In May 2002, Government adopted a national transport policy that aimed at
addressing gaps in the transport sector in general and the road sub sector in particular. Through
this policy, Government dedicated itself to strengthening the financing aspects and the institutional
framework in the road sector.

Legal reform and establishment of Road agencies: In October 2002, parliament enacted three
essential legislations necessary to effect the required institutional reforms as follows: The National
Road Fund Act No. 13 of 2002 ­ Establishes and defines the functions of the National Road Fund
Agency (NRFA), and the Road Fund. This Act repeals and dissolves the National Roads Board
(NRB), which was created under section 55 of the Roads and Road Traffic Act. The Public Road
reform Act. 12 of 2002 - Establishes a Road development Agency (RDA) as a sole agency
responsible for planning and management of public roads, to replace the Roads Department (RD),
in the Ministry of Works and Supply (MWS), and the Department of Infrastructure and Support
services (DISS) in the Ministry of Local and Housing (MLGH). The ACT has designated public
roads as all inter-territorial and territorial main roads, district roads, branch roads, urban roads,
rural roads, estate roads, and Park Roads. The Road Traffic Act No. 11 of 2002 ­ Establishes and
defines the functions of the Road Transport and Safety Agency (RTSA), to replace the National
Roads safety Council (NRSC).

Composition and funding of the Agencies: The agencies comprise representatives from the
private sector, and public sector, and reports to the committee of Ministers on the Road
Maintenance Initiative (RMI), with regard to policy directives, approval of programs, funding,
and progress on defined programs. The committee is responsible for the preservation of the road
network in Zambia. The agencies are also expected to provide quarterly reports, and consolidated
annual reports to the committee in order to promote accountability and transparence. The


                                                  - 42 -

administrative cost of these agencies is a percentage (equal or less than 5%) of the total annual
program.

The committee of Ministers comprises the Minister of Communications and transport (chairman),
Works and Supply, Finance and National Planning, Ministry of Local Government and Housing,
Ministry of Tourism, Environment and Natural Supply, Ministry Agriculture and Co-operatives,
and Ministry of Justice.




                                                - 43 -

- 44 -

