Report No. PIC1093
Project Name                      Zambia-Road Sector Project
Region                       Africa
Sector                       Transportation, Road Transport
Project ID                   ZMSR14814
Implementing Agency          Ministry of Works and Supply
Box 50236
Lusaka
Zambia
Contact: Permanent Secretary
Telephone: 260-1 253887
Ministry of Local Government and Housing
Box 50027
Lusaka
Zambia
Contact: Permanent Secretary
Telephone: 260-1 222442
Fax: 260-1 254733
Estimated Project Cost       US$500 million
Financing Plan               IDA (US$40 million); cofinancing to be
determined
Appraisal Date               April 1997
Projected Board Date              March 1998
Objectives
1. The principal objective is to support Zambia's economic recovery
program by reducing road transportation costs and improving access
within and among economically productive areas. This would be
accomplished through the rehabilitation of priority roads, the
elimination of a portion of the huge backlog of periodic
maintenance, and construction of urban and rural feeder roads in
productive or potentially productive areas.
Description
2. The proposed project would implement the policy recommendations
and investment proposals identified in the ongoing Transport
Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (TETAP) and then
proceed to support the road rehabilitation and maintenance program
proposed in each of the five years of the project. The project
would be designed in a flexible manner, in which the overall scope
of the project would be assessed, with first year to two years
defined and appraised in detail. A mid-term review of
implementation and institutional progress at the end of the second
year would firm up the program for the outer years. The project
would include a civil works program comprising: (i) rehabilitation
of priority trunk and main roads and bridges; (ii) a resealing and
regravelling program to reduce the backlog of maintenance; (iii)



labor-based reconstruction and construction of feeder roads; and
(iv) periodic maintenance of that portion of the network in good or
fair condition.
Financing
3. The project cost is estimated at about US$500 million. The
financing plan has not yet been determined, although a number of
donors have expressed interest in a coordinated program to address
roads.
Implementation
4. The project would be implemented by the Ministries of Works and
Supply, and Local Government and Housing. Other agencies, including
district councils, may also participate.
Environmental Impact
5. Since the project focuses on rehabilitation and maintenance, no
major environmental issues are expected. As directed under TETAP,
all feasibility studies and detailed designs for roads in Zambia are
to include the requirement that adequate attention be paid to
environmental issues. These clauses would be included in the
standard letters of invitation, terms of reference and civil works
contracts. In addition, discussions would be held during project
preparation with the newly created Ministry of Natural Resources and
Environment and National Environmental Council to identify how all
road-related environmental issues should be handled.
Contact Point -        Public Information Centre
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.:(202)522-1500
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



