Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
January 31, 2011 
Report No.:  AB6324 
 (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)
 
Operation Name 
GN-DPL 1 
Region 
AFRICA 
Country 
Guinea 
Sector (s) 
AFTP4 and AFTFM 
Operation ID 
P122807 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Lending 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
January 31, 2011 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 7, 2011 
Corporate Review Decision 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to 
proceed with the preparation of the operation.
 
I. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
In 2010, Guinea held its first democratic elections since it gained independence from 
France in 1958. , Public expectations towards Prof. Alpha Condé, a historical opponent of the 
former autocratic regime who is now the president-elect, are naturally high.  They include three 
sets of priorities: (i) a clean break with past practices in political and economic governance, 
including on civil liberties, security sector reform and a shift to the management of public 
resources for the public good, rather than for private gain; (ii) a rapid progress in the delivery of 
basic social and economic services, such as water, electricity, rubbish collection, education and 
health services;  and (iii) the setting-out and implementation of a roadmap for long-term 
economic and social development, including agriculture and mining, two sectors with clear 
development potential. The new government is likely to benefit from an initial period of 
goodwill, but it will have to act quickly and show results in order to continue to be perceived as a 
legitimate force for change beyond the initial ‘honeymoon period.’ 
 
After two years of political crisis, the macroeconomic position of Guinea is very fragile. 
The crisis in Guinea since 2000 has led to poor macroeconomic performance, characterized by 
weak economic growth and high inflation. In the last five years, the GDP growth rate has been 
3.0 percent or less, except in 2008 when it was estimated to be 4.9 percent. Between 2002 and 
2007, the annual growth rate of GDP was 2.7 percent compared to 4.4 percent in the preceding 
decade. The estimated growth for 2010 is 1.9 percent. Inflation has consistently been in double 
digits (with a high of 39.1 percent in 2006) except for 2009 with an estimate of 7.9 percent. The 
estimate for end 2010 is 20.9 percent. The external position of Guinea deteriorated between 2002 
and 2010, with a corresponding accumulation of external arrears, estimated to represent XX 
million USD at end 2010. The foreign exchange reserve levels remain low, with an estimate of 
half a month of imports in 2010. Guinea was expected to attain the Enhanced HIPC completion 
Page  2
point in mid-
2009,
but
the political crisis triggered by the death of Pdt Conté in December 2008 
interrupted the process.  
 
The Bank proposes to intervene in support of the authorities’ immediate priorities 
through a Development Policy Operation, which would contribute to the stabilization of the 
country and pave the way for the longer term development agenda. The key objective of the 
policy reforms supported by this operation would be to establish the operation of the State’s core 
functions on new principles, based on the rule of law and the public good, in order to move away 
from unfettered executive discretion and private gain. The particular focus of the operation 
would be public financial management and civil service reform. Our support would form part of 
a
coordinated stabilization and reengagement strategy involving other key multilateral and 
bilateral partners, such as the IMF, AfDB, the EU, the UN, France and the USA. The purpose of 
this coordinated strategy would be to accompany the political and macroeconomic stabilization 
of the country through support to arrears clearance, security sector reform and a profound reform 
of the basic governance environment.  
 
II. Proposed 
Objective(s) 
The first phase of this reform program will be focused on economy-wide policy and 
institutional reforms with a focus on strengthening public expenditure management and on 
improving public sector governance as a prerequisite to improving the quality of public service 
delivery, especially to the poor. This focus is at the core of IDA’s assistance to Guinea. 
Subsequent phases will emphasize the deepening of these reforms, strengthening of governance, 
improving the economic environment to encourage private sector led investment and growth, and 
reforming other sectors, in particular the human development sectors. 
 
A
reformed PFM system will be essential for improving the effectiveness of service 
delivery as well as for raising the financing necessary for social and economic infrastructure 
improvements. The medium-term reform program to be initiated under the DPO will be designed 
to support the government’s interim poverty reduction strategy. It is envisaged that the DPO will 
be followed by Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs)
in later years to accompany the full 
Poverty Reduction Support Strategy (PRSP), which is under preparation
1
.
III. Preliminary 
Description 
The DPO will support the main pillars of the incoming Guinean authorities’ policy 
priorities and cover the following reforms designed to help strengthen governance, improve 
public service delivery, and as a result, improve the environment for investment and growth. The 
reforms aim to achieve: (i) more accountable and efficient use of public resources; (and (ii) 
improved management of the civil service wage bill. 
 
IV. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
Page  3
Guinea is a low-income, maritime country of 10.2 million, which ranked [156 out of 169] 
countries in the [2010] UNDP Human Development Indicators and uneven access to key social 
services including electricity, water and proper sanitation. Policies of the outgoing interim 
Government sought to address some of the key development challenges with little success partly 
due to economic mismanagement and large debt overhang. The policies and actions supported by 
the Budget Support Operation are not likely to have any significant impact on the environment, 
natural resources and forests.  The policies and actions supported under the said operation and 
address primarily institutional reforms, none of which entails any environmental impact.
 
V. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($60m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
 
Borrower/Recipient  
IBRD 
Others (specifiy) 
 
Total $60 
Million 
 
VI. Contact 
point 
World Bank 
 
Contact: Emmanuel Doe Fiadzo 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-9473 
Fax:  
Email: efiadzo@worldbank.org 
Borrower 
Contact:  
Title:  
 
Tel: 
   
Email:  
 
 
VII. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
