                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2234



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H6710)

                                    ON A

                                   GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 49.6 MILLION
                       (US$ 78 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF GUINEA

                                    FOR A

             REENGAGEMENT AND REFORM SUPPORT GRANT



                               February 28, 2012




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 3
Country Department AFCC1
Africa Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
    (Exchange Rate Effective as of November 15, 2011)

             Currency Unit      =     GF
               US$1.00          =     GF 7010

                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 =    December 31

                WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                    Metric System

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB          African Development Bank
ECF           Extended Credit Facility
EITI          Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative
EU            European Union
HIPC          Highly Indebted Poor Countries
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IMF           International Monetary Fund
ISN           Interim Strategy Note
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO           Non-Government Organization
NTC           National Transition Council
PD            Project Document
PEFA          Public Expenditure and Financial Assessment
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SMP           Staff Monitored Program
TPRSP         Transitional Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper




         Vice President   :   Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
       Country Director   :   Ousmane Diagana
        Sector Director   :   Marcelo Giugale
      Country Manager     :   Siaka Bakayoko
 Acting Sector Manager    :   Eric Bell
     Task Team Leader     :   Emmanuel Fiadzo
                                                         GUINEA
                   REENGAGEMENT AND REFORM PROGRAM GRANT

                                                  Table of Contents

Data Sheet
     A. Basic Information
     B. Key Dates
     C. Ratings Summary
     D. Sector and Theme Codes
     E. Bank Staff
     F. Results Framework Analysis
     G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
     H. Restructuring


1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6
3. Assessment of outcomes ............................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of risk to development outcome ................................................................ 15
5. Assessment of bank and borrower performance ........................................................... 15
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 16
7. Comments on issues raised by borrower/implementing agencies/partners .................. 17
Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............... 18
Annex 2: 2011 Budget execution..................................................................................... 19
Annex 3: Selected macroeconomic indicators ................................................................. 22
Annex 4: Government contracts in 2009, 2010 and 2011 ............................................... 23
Annex 5: Results Framework........................................................................................... 26
Annex 6: Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR ................................................................. 29

Map IBRD No 33414




                                                                                                                                i
A. Basic Information
Country:                Guinea                  Program Name:             GN-DPL 1
Program ID:             P122807                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H6710
ICR Date:               02/28/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:
                                                                          GUINEA
Original Total
                        XDR 49.60M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 49.60M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 49.60M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 African Development Bank

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/08/2011     Effectiveness:          04/19/2011          04/21/2011
Appraisal:            03/17/2011     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             04/21/2011     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                08/31/2011          08/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                                                              ii
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     83                  83
Mining and other extractive                                           17                  17


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               17                  17
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                              8                  8
Macroeconomic management                                              17                  17
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                   8                  8
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      50                  50
procurement

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Ousmane Diagana                      Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:            Eric Bell                            Siaka Bakayoko
                                                                Renaud Seligmann & Emmanuel
Program Team Leader:       Emmanuel Doe Fiadzo
                                                                Doe Fiadzo
ICR Team Leader:           Emmanuel Doe Fiadzo
ICR Primary Author:        Jerome F. Chevallier




                                                                                               iii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The program development objective was to strengthen financial management, efficiency and
accountability in the public sector and to increase transparency in the mining sector The proposed
grant would facilitate the clearance of Guinea‟s arrears to IDA, and thus restore normal relation
between Guinea and the World Bank.
This operation would contribute to one of the two objectives of the ISN, namely the consolidation
of national reconciliation through building state capacity and increasing accountability. It was to
be complemented with a technical assistance operation, the Guinea Economic Recovery
Technical Assistance operation, which is still under preparation.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)

The Program Development Objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Proportion of capital spending due to the 2009 & 2010 multi-years contracts %
Value
(quantitative or   37%                      30%                                Negligible
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/15/2010               04/30/2011                         08/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %           All contracts were frozen - Target was met
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Proportion of all signed contracts that are single source
Value
(quantitative or   91%                      60%                                27%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/15/2010               04/30/2011                         08/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %           As of September 30, 2011 Target was met
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Aggregate expenditure outcome compared to original budget
Value
(quantitative or   PEFA rating D            rating C                           n.a.
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/15/2010              04/30/2011                         08/15/2011
Comments           This indicator was designed to assess use of exceptional budget procedures. It
(incl. %           cannot be assessed. Use of exceptional budget procedures was drastically
achievement)       curtailed


                                                                                                iv
                                            Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                           Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                           Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                              documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 4 :      Bank accounts of public entities in commercial banks
Value
(quantitative or   1823                    1700                                789
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/15/2010              04/30/2011                          08/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %           Remaining bank accounts mostly for development projects. Target was met
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Gross hiring into the civil service (number)
Value
(quantitative or   3720                    3018                                4981
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/15/2010              04/30/2011                          08/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %           Target not met
achievement)
                   Duplicate payroll entries from individuals claiming multiple civil service
Indicator 6 :
                   salaries removed from the payroll (number)
Value
(quantitative or   0                       200                                 1300
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/15/2010              04/30/2011                          08/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %           Target was met
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      Civil servants over 65 years old removed from payroll (number)
Value
(quantitative or   0                       200                                 0
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/15/2010              04/30/2011                          08/15/2011
Comments
                   Target met in substance, as June 2011 decree declared that 1571 individuals
(incl. %
                   would be removed from payroll as of January 1, 2012
achievement)
                   Updated and coherent Mining Code including international best practice
Indicator 8 :
                   drafted (yes/no)
Value
(quantitative or   No                      Yes                                 Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/15/2010              04/30/2011                          08/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %           Code approved on September 9, 2011 Target was met
achievement)




                                                                                                   v
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

There are no intermediate outcome indicators.


G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

Not Applicable

H. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable




                                                vi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

Context at Appraisal

1.      After decades of despotic rule and poor governance since independence in
1958, Guinea’s first democratically elected president assumed power in December
2010. The first priority of the new government was to regain control of a severely
deteriorated fiscal situation, due to weak revenue mobilization and uncontrolled
expenditure. The budget deficit was estimated at 14 percent of GDP. It was financed by a
sharp increase in Central Bank advances and building up of external arrears. Inflation
accelerated to above 20 percent in 2010 and the reserves of the Central Bank fell to about
two weeks of imports. The economy stagnated between 2008 and 2010, mainly because
of the contraction of the mining sector, which is the country‟s main source of foreign
exchange earnings. The business environment also deteriorated badly in that period, as a
result of insecurity, political instability and the unilateral cancelation of mining contracts
and revisions to licensing agreements. Corruption became entrenched in the public sector,
which was used as a vehicle for delivering political patronage rather than as an institution
for delivering public services to the population.

2.      Mr. Sékou Touré, Guinea’s first president ruled the country with an iron fist
from 1958 until his death in 1984. Mr. Lansana Conté, a military officer, took control of
the country and established the second Republic. Following a revision of the constitution
with the declared intention to shift to a democratic society and market-based economy, he
won the presidential elections in 1993, and again in 1998 and 2003, the last time with
over 90 percent of the vote. Hours after his death in December 2008, a group of military
officers staged a coup. Most external assistance to Guinea came to a halt. The Bank
suspended disbursements. Guinea started accumulating arrears to the IDA, which reached
about US$60 million at end December 2010. Deadly repression in 2009 generated
growing tensions within the junta and eventually to its implosion. A National Transition
Council (NTC) was established in early 2010 to prepare for general elections and to serve
as interim Parliament.

3.      The last household survey undertaken in 2007 suggested that 53 percent of
the population was living below the poverty line, up from 49 percent in 2002,
reflecting a negative per capita economic growth during the period. The survey
nonetheless indicated favorable trends in a number of key social indicators, such as the
gross and net enrollment ratios both in primary and secondary schools, the rate of
accessibility to health facilities, the share of women having used prenatal care, and the
share of assisted birth. On the other hand, the percentage of children suffering from
chronic malnutrition was increasing from 33 to 36 percent. The rural population
represented 64 percent of the poor and 80 percent of the total population.



                                                                                   1|Page
4.       The new government formulated a Transitional Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (TPRSP) to provide a framework for poverty reduction in 2011/2012.
Preparation of the TPRSP involved broad consultations with stakeholders and members
of the Development Community present in Guinea. The strategy is based on three main
pillars: (i) to sustain faster economic growth and create income-earning and employment
opportunities, particularly for the rural poor; (ii) to improve and extend access to basic
services; and (iii) to improve governance and strengthen institutional and human
capacity. A full PRSP is envisioned for 2013.

5.     An Interim Strategy Note (ISN) was reviewed by the Board on April 11,
2011. It outlined a re-engagement strategy in Guinea for the period FY11-12. The Bank
would support macroeconomic stabilization and help the Government reach the Highly
Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) completion point rapidly by providing budget support
and technical assistance with a special focus on the areas of public financial management,
public administration, the security sector and mining. The ISN proposed two
Development Policy Operations (DPOs), including the operation under review. This
operation is fully aligned with the ISN. It was prepared in a record short time in close
cooperation with other development partners.

Original Program Development Objectives

6.     The Program Development Objective was to strengthen financial
management, efficiency and accountability in the public sector and to increase
transparency in the mining sector. The operation was designed to facilitate the
clearance of arrears to IDA and restore normal relations between Guinea and the Bank. It
supported two key priorities of the PRSP - sustain faster economic growth and create
income-earning and employment opportunities, particularly for the rural poor (pillar 1),
and improve governance and strengthen institutional and human capacity (pillar 3). It
would also contribute to improved access for the population to quality social services
through its impact on public financial management and civil service reform (pillar 2).

Revised PDO and Key Indicators

The objectives were not revised.

Original policy areas supported by the program

7.     The program supported policy reforms in three areas: improving public financial
management, including procurement, public sector efficiency and governance, and
transparency in the mining sector.




                                                                               2|Page
Improving Public Financial Management, Including Procurement

8.      A Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) assessment in
2007 concluded that although Guinea’s overall fiscal discipline was maintained, its
ratings in public finance management put it in the bottom league of African
countries. Following the December 2008 military coup, fiscal discipline collapsed. In
two years, the share of public expenditure rose from 17.5 percent to 29.6 percent of GDP.
This was due to rapid increase in the payroll and the signing of a large number of single-
source, multi-year contracts for infrastructure and equipment, a large part of it for the
military.

9.       The first priority of the new Government was to re-establish basic controls
over public finances, by enforcing compliance with existing rules and regulations,
before engaging in a comprehensive reform of public financial management. This was to
be achieved in four steps. The first one was to find out the full extent of the contingent
liability created by the contracts signed in 2009 and 2010. An audit was carried out with
Bank support. None of the contracts audited complied with government regulations. Most
contracts were single-sourced to the benefit of four suppliers. There was evidence of
massive over-pricing. The audit recommended that most contracts be cancelled. The
transmission of the audit to the President was a prior action. To prevent recurrence of the
breakdown in fiscal discipline, the Government issued orders limiting strictly the use of
exceptional budget execution and procurement procedures and imposing sanctions for
their misuse. This second step was a prior action. The third step was aimed at restoring
Treasury control over cash flows of ministries and public agencies, and improving cash
management, by eliminating a large number of Treasury sub-accounts and government
accounts held in commercial banks. The implementation of a single Treasury account
was a prior action. The closure of all non project-related accounts in commercial banks
was expected as a follow-up action. Finally, to improve budget transparency, the
Government committed to publish the 2011 budget law.

10.     In 2008, Guinea adopted a comprehensive public financial management
reform strategy developed with IMF assistance. The 2007 PEFA assessment noted
challenges in the area of budget preparation, execution, monitoring and lack of proper
oversight, especially through tracking of poverty reduction expenditures and excessive
extra-budgetary expenditures (resulting in money supply expansion of over 80 percent).
The report recommended a multiyear action plan to achieve measurable progress in
public financial management area. Key areas of reform focused on the need to (i) revise
an inconsistent and outdated legal framework for public financial management; (ii) adopt
a new procurement bill developed with the support of an IDF grant; (iii) increase
domestic revenue mobilization from a low 16 percent of GDP, through removing tax
exemptions, improving the performance of the tax administration, and redirecting to the

                                                                                3|Page
Treasury revenues collected and managed non-transparently by autonomous public
agencies; (iv) clear the backlog of six years of unpublished financial statements; and (v)
build up an independent and capable internal and external oversight system.

Strengthening public sector efficiency and accountability

11.     Large civil service recruitments and pay rises resulted in increasing the share
of payroll in GDP from 3.5 percent in 2007 to 5.8 percent in 2010. Recruitments were
made without following regulations and due process, which opened doors to massive
frauds, such as “double dipping?, ghost workers and benefit gouging. The new
Government declared its commitment to reinstating basic controls over the civil service
payroll and building the foundations of a more effective civil service. To achieve the first
objective, they imposed a six-month freeze on all new recruitments, except in the health
and education sector, as well as for specific personnel in the judiciary. Net recruitments
in sectors excluded from the freeze were expected to reach 1,200 people. The freeze was
a prior action. To reduce the payroll, the Government took three initiatives. First, they
identified a first batch of about 2,000 civil servants receiving two salaries. Their salaries
were blocked. Second, they identified 1,875 cases of civil servants receiving their salaries
beyond the compulsory retirement age of 65. Third, they identified a number of civil
servants who continued to receive a management bonus even after they had left their
managerial positions. Blocking the salaries of “double dippers? and of the civil servants
over 65 was a prior action.

12.      To build the foundation of a more effective civil service, three reform areas
were identified, including better identification of civil servants, strengthening
institutions in charge of human resources management and a functional review of
ministries. Interfacing civil service databases and the payroll and introducing biometric
identity cards would reduce fraud. A census of all government workers, including in the
military, would then provide a firm basis for further reform of government services. Re-
establishing three basic requirements, including competitive recruitment, Ministry of
Finance‟s clearance for all human resource decisions with a financial incidence, and
attendance verification would be key steps in improving government efficiency. Finally
matching government positions with government priorities, including in the provision of
basic services outside Conakry, the capital city, would be achieved by a review of
ministries to clarify their mandates and staffing needs and defining modalities for service
in remote areas.

Fostering transparency in the mining sector

13.    Guinea has the largest and highest grade bauxite deposits and the largest non
developed iron ore deposits in the world. Global players in the aluminum sector

                                                                                  4|Page
announced investment plans of about US$9 billion. The major players in the iron ore
sector are contemplating investment amounting to US$11 billion, including US$6 billion
for infrastructure development. Other significant natural resources potential include
several hundreds of tons of gold reserves, presently mined by three companies, several
million carats of diamond, mostly exploited by artisan miners, other minerals (uranium,
nickel and calcium) and offshore petroleum reserves. The mining sector accounts for 90
percent of exports, but only 20 percent of GDP, and a quarter of government revenues.
The recent boom in commodity prices has increased interest in Guinea‟s mineral assets,
but poor governance in the sector has resulted in deals that were probably not in the best
interests of the country, particularly since 2007. The military government initiated the
revision of the Mining Code and a review of existing concessions, but in an open-ended
and non transparent way.

14.     The new government has indicated its intention to establish a stable
extractive industry regime, which would be beneficial for both investors and the
Guinean population. Key steps include coming to closure on the review of existing
mining contracts and setting the foundations for inclusive, long-term growth in the
mining and petroleum sector. In the first area, as a prior action, it was expected that the
Government would prepare and disclose a mining transparency roadmap, including the
due process for mining code revision and review of large mining contracts, with technical
assistance provided by a TA project.

15.    In the second area, key priorities are to address transport and energy
infrastructure bottlenecks for future extractive industry investments and reform
governance of the sector for it to become a source of sustainable and inclusive
growth. The first priority entails establishing a framework for cooperative arrangements
between the State and mining companies. The second requires completing the Extractive
Industry Transparency Initiative (EITI) process, publication of an audited extractive
revenues report and of an updated mining cadastre, creating a framework for artisanal
mining, definition of a local community development regime and the identification of
mining related growth poles.

16.     In view of the expected increase in revenues from the mining sector, and
taking account of their volatility, it is important for Guinea to develop and
implement a prudent long-term fiscal policy and a program for strengthening
agricultural productivity. This would help mitigate the risks of Dutch disease, diversify
the economy, create jobs and reduce poverty.

17.   Revised policy areas: the policy areas were not modified during program
implementation.


                                                                                5|Page
18.    Other significant changes: there were no other significant changes.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Program Performance

19.    The program was supported by a single tranche operation. The prior actions
are summarized below. The grant was approved on April 21, 2011, became effective the
same day and closed on August 31, 2011.

Prior actions

A. Improving public financial management, including procurement

       Prior action 1. An audit report on the legality, transparency and budgetary impact
of single source contracts entered into in 2009 and 2010 has been transmitted to the
Recipient„s President.
       Prior action 2. The Recipient has taken regulatory measures to strictly limit the
use of exceptional budget execution procedures as well as exceptions to competitive
bidding for public procurement and to impose sanctions for their misuse.
       Prior action 3. The Recipient has taken steps to implement a Treasury Single
Account, as evidenced by a report on a census of bank accounts held by public sector
entities at the Central Bank and in commercial banks.

B. Strengthening public sector efficiency and accountability

       Prior action 4. The Recipient has announced a temporary freeze on all public
sector hiring, except in the education and health sectors as well as for certain specific
personnel in the justice sector.
       Prior action 5. The Recipient has blocked the wages of individuals claiming two
civil service salaries simultaneously (“double-dippers?) and civil servants over 65 who
remain on the Government payroll.

C. Fostering transparency in the mining sector

       Prior action 6. The Recipient‟s Council of Ministers has approved and publicly
disclosed a mining transparency roadmap, including the due process that will be followed
to revise the mining code, consult stakeholders and undertake a review of large mining
contracts.




                                                                               6|Page
Main Factors Affecting Implementation:

Adequacy of Government commitment

20.     The new Government was most eager to re-engage with the Bretton Woods
institutions and to reach the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) completion
point as soon as possible. The decision point had been reached in 2000. The
Government worked with the Bank and the IMF to identify a credible medium-term
macroeconomic framework and agree on a set of measures to make a break with the past.
These measures included (i) the re-instatement of the Treasury Committee (chaired by the
Prime Minister) for more effective cash management, (ii) aggressive tax controls against
past frauds and evasion, (iii) the transfer to Treasury of dividends and fees collected by
autonomous public agencies and enterprises, (iv) increased customs duties through
broadened pre-shipment inspections and the removal of ad-hoc temporary tariff
exemptions, (v) the progressive alignment of petroleum prices to global levels, (vi) cuts
on goods and services, (vii) a net hiring freeze in the public sector; and (viii) the
cancellation and/or postponement of illegal investment contracts signed under the
military junta regime in 2009-2010. Under the agreed upon scenario, the HIPC
completion point could be met in 2012 following a satisfactory implementation of an
IMF staff monitored program (SMP) and Extended Credit Facility (ECF), in addition to
meeting remaining structural triggers. The SMP was approved in August 2011.

Soundness of background analysis

21.     Following the military coup in December 2008, the Bank suspended
disbursements to Guinea. No formal analytical work was carried out in the two years
before the operation. The design of the operation took account of the PEFA report of
2007 and the IMF report on fiscal management in the same year. Internal policy notes on
service delivery, mining, rural development and public expenditure in 2010 informed the
design of the operation. The poverty analysis carried out by the Bank for the preparation
of the Guinea Food Crisis Policy Development Policy Grant (2008) was used to better
understand the poverty and social impacts of fuel and food price increases. The Bank
team, together with teams from the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the European
Union (EU), was closely associated with the Government team who prepared the TPRSP.

Assessment of the operation design

22.     The purpose of the operation was to facilitate the clearance of arrears to IDA
and initiate a process of reforms in key areas for resuming economic growth. It
focused on restoring basic discipline in the management of public financial and human
resources and on introducing a framework conducive to sound development in the mining
sector. All prior actions except the first one did not require extensive preparatory work or

                                                                                 7|Page
complex administrative procedures. An audit on the legality, transparency and budgetary
impact of single source contract approved in 2009 and 2010 was needed to assess the
extent of the contingent liability. It served as a basis for the first prior action. The audit
was carried out in a most cost effective way by two auditors of the French Auditor‟s
General‟s Office (Cour des Comptes in French) with support from the Bank. The draft of
the audit report was available by end of February 2011.

Risk Analysis

23.    The program document (PD) identified five high interrelated risks which
could not be fully mitigated. Three had to do with the environment and the two others
with program implementation.

24.     The risks related to the environment included macroeconomic, security and
political economy risks. Guinea‟s performance in implementing the program could
deteriorate as a result of external factors such as an increase in the price of fuels or a
decline in prices of mining exports. The HIPC process could be delayed by the
materialization of important contingent liabilities. Close monitoring of the
macroeconomic framework would mitigate these risks. The security risks stemming from
a number of factors (such as insufficient progress in the reform of the security sector,
spillover effects from the crisis in neighboring Cote d‟Ivoire, conflicts over the allocation
of extractive industries revenues) would be mitigated by continued commitment of the
international community to the Government in maintaining security. The Bank would
also support integration of security services in the overall fiscal framework and improved
public financial management practices in the military through a technical assistance
project under preparation. The political economy risks stemming from unmet
expectations or perception of corruption would be mitigated by a strong participatory
process for the preparation of the new PRSP. This was expected to help manage
population expectations.

25.    The fiduciary and implementation risks were considered limited. An audit of
the flow of funds to the Treasury via a Central Bank account would mitigate possible
risks of weak procedures. The fiduciary risk would be also mitigated by the
Government‟s commitment to a credible program of public financial management
reform. Progress in the reform agenda could be stalled by weak capacity and poor
coordination within Government. The limited scope of the program and the
Government‟s interest in meeting the HIPC completion point as rapidly as possible would
mitigate the implementation risk.

26.   Macroeconomic risks did not materialize and the fiscal performance of the
Government was strong. The fiscal situation brightened following the signature of a

                                                                                   8|Page
government agreement with Rio Tinto the day after Board approval of the operation,
providing for a payment of US$700 million. The security situation has remained fragile,
however, as evidenced by an attack against the President‟s residence by military elements
in July 2011 and intermittent strikes by disgruntled miners which temporarily stopped the
operation of mines. Parliamentary elections scheduled for December 29, 2011 were
postponed. A dialogue between government and main political parties is ongoing for
setting up these elections. Implementation of the program was slower than anticipated
due to weak capacity and unavailability of operating expenses for carrying out basic
tasks, such as field inspections of projects financed by the contracts signed in 2009 and
2010.

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

M&E design

27.     Targets with specific indicators were set for each prior action for end-August
2011, the closing date of the grant. These indicators were not ambitious, as it was not
reasonable to expect significant progress over a four-month period. It was unusual,
however, for an operation focused in large part on public financial management reform
that targets were not set for the end of the fiscal year, December in this case. This was
due to the decision to shorten the implementation period in view of the need to extend a
second operation to help close the financing gap in 2011. A technical assistance project
was under preparation at the time of operation approval to help the Government
implement the program and build up capacity for M&E. Preparation was much delayed,
however, and the project is now scheduled for Board presentation by end March 2012.

M&E implementation

28.    The Ministry of Finance was responsible for monitoring reforms, reporting
progress and coordinating actions among other public entities. The Ministry of
Finance established a system for monitoring budget implementation on a monthly basis.
The Treasury Committee, chaired by the Prime Minister, was expected to monitor the use
of exceptional procedures, including in procurement, and publish monthly reports. It
monitored the use of exceptional procedures, but reports were not published. The
publication of the 2011 budget, budget implementation data and monthly reports of the
Treasury Committee on a government website would improve transparency. This
information is not available to the public however as the government website is not
operational.




                                                                              9|Page
M&E Utilization

29.    Data on budget implementation are monitored on a monthly basis, but this
does not seem to trigger corrective actions for widely divergent budget implementation
performance among ministries, leading to a misalignment of actual budget expenditures
with TRSP priorities. Annex 2 includes an analysis of budget implementation as of
August 31, 2011. It shows for instance that at that date disbursements under the budget of
the Ministry of Defense were 65 percent of budget allocations, while those for the
Ministry of Health were 24 percent only.

Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

30.     The operation was designed to facilitate the clearance of arrears to IDA and
initiate a reform process. A follow up operation was envisaged in the Interim Strategy
Note (ISN) discussed by the Board on April 21, 2011 the day the operation under review
was approved, to consolidate the reform process and close the financing gap for 2011.
The IMF Staff Monitored Program of August 2011 expected that a large financing gap,
equivalent to 8.3 percent of GDP would be met in part by a limited use of the payment
made by Rio Tinto, additional support by the World Bank and bilateral donors, and a
further increase in external debt arrears. Discussions on a possible second DPO are
ongoing between the Government and the Bank. In the meanwhile, preparation for an
Economic Governance Technical Assistance and Capacity Building project is underway.
Its objective is to strengthen the capacity of the Government of Guinea to prepare,
implement and monitor reform programs in public financial and human resource
management.

3. Assessment of outcomes

Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

31.     The operation was and is still highly relevant to Guinea’s development
priorities. It was designed to help the newly elected government in Guinea re-engage
with the donor community after the calamitous breakdown in adherence to basic
regulations and procedures in the management of public resources by the military
government in 2009-2010. Re-establishing macro-economic stability, engaging the
country on a broad-based development path and reaching the HIPC completion point as
rapidly as possible was and still is a daunting task. The operation was a first key step in
Bank re-engagement. The clearance of arrears to IDA opened the door to the resumption
of disbursements under ongoing projects. The operation was essential for achieving the
country‟s as well as the Bank‟s objectives as stated in the PRSP and the ISN.



                                                                               10 | P a g e
Achievement of Program Development Objectives

32.     The operation was designed to restore basic fiscal discipline and
transparency, reinstate basic controls over the civil service payroll and foster
transparency in the mining sector. Notable progress was achieved in these areas. Most
targets were met as discussed below and the performance of the Government was on
average satisfactory. It was strong in the fiscal area. Significant initial steps were taken in
cleaning up the payroll, but serious problems remain. A new Mining Code was approved
in September 2011.

33.     The Government made good progress in restoring basic fiscal discipline.
Expenditures were not approved in the absence of an allocation in the budget. The use of
exceptional budget execution procedures was considerably reduced. The Government
reintroduced the mechanism for the regular adjustment of fuel prices in relation to
international price changes and exchange rate. On October 16, the average price of fuel
increased by 27 percent, resulting in a doubling of the price in 2011. A revised budget
was approved by the interim Parliament. Revenues were revised upward by GF 580
billion (about 2 percent of GDP), as a result of the change in oil price, and increased
revenue from mining and port operations. Annex 3 includes a table on macroeconomic
indicators.

34.     The government has also launched an in depth reform of the legal and
regulatory framework for public finances. To that end (i) it has prepared with IMF
technical assistance a new draft organic finance law, which is aligned to the most recent
directives of the West African Economic and Monetary Union; (ii) it is in the process of
preparing a new General Regulation on Public Accounting to base it on strong legal
foundations;(iii) it is revising the state accounting plan, to modernize it and adapt it to
management efficiency requirements; (iv) it has established and strengthened the monthly
treasury plan under the authority of the Prime Minister; and (v) it is in the process of
finalizing the new procurement code .

35.    The operation has achieved its objective to facilitate the clearance of arrears
to IDA. Normal relations between Guinea and the World Bank have been restored.
Projects were restructured to better reflect the new context and priorities, and
disbursements under ongoing projects have resumed, amounting to US$24.6 million up to
grant closing date. The operation provided a helpful framework for the subsequent re-
engagement of the African Development Bank (AfDB). Since the Bank re-engagement,
the Government has remained current on its payment obligations to IDA.

36.    The results framework is in Annex 5. Paragraphs below discuss achievements
under each program component.

                                                                                  11 | P a g e
37.     Prior action 1: The two targets under this action were met. Following
transmission of the audit report on the 2009-2010 contracts to the President, the
Government decided that all contracts would be frozen. Before end-August 2011 no
disbursement was made under these contracts, so the first target was met. On the other
hand, the process of (i) completing the audits for contracts which were not audited by the
French GAO, (ii) carrying out site inspections and (iii) reaching a decision on whether to
cancel or renegotiate the contracts is taking much longer than expected. For further
details please refer to Annex 4: 2009, 2010 and 2011 contracts. The percentages of single
source contracts approved during the first three quarters of 2011 were 27 percent for the
number of contracts and 34 percent for the amount of contracts (see Annex 4). The
second target was met. Too many contracts continued to be single source in 2011,
however, because of lax regulations, as was the case for instance for buying 380,000 tons
of rice and a large fleet of vehicles. Following the closure of the grant, the government
took further measures to limit single source contracts; to that end the Prime Minister
issued a circular to all ministries in December 2011 instructing them to prepare
procurement plans for 2012, to make recourse to open competition and to submit all
request for utilization of budgetary allocations for procurement to the Ministry of Finance
to ensure that the commitment of funds is properly registered.

38.     Prior action 2: The indicator for checking whether the use of exceptional budget
execution procedures would be strictly limited was difficult to monitor. The rating for
PEFA indicator PI-2 (composition of expenditure out-turn compared to original approved
budget) was expected to move from D to C. The rating, based on variance in expenditure
composition, cannot be calculated before the accounts are closed. On the other hand, the
Ministry of Finance monitors regularly the use of exceptional procedures. This regular
monitoring was re-introduced following the operation and the baseline data was not
readily available when the operation was prepared. According to the Ministry of Finance,
as of November 16, 2011, the use of exceptional procedures has resulted in expenditures
amounting to GF 130 billion, about 2.37 percent of total expenditures, which is a huge
progress over 2009 and 2010.

39.    Prior action 3: The target was met. As of November 16, 2011, 1034 accounts of
public entities have been closed. The 789 remaining accounts are used for external-
funded project activities or have negative balances. Even though the Bank team insisted
that bank accounts of public enterprises be exempted from closure, they were closed,
making it difficult for them to operate efficiently.

40.     Prior action 4: The joint decree of March 22, 2011 taken by the Ministers of Civil
Service and of Budget to meet prior action 4 froze recruitment into the civil service and
indicated the number of exceptions for education, health and justice. This number was

                                                                               12 | P a g e
extensively discussed between the government and the Bank, as well as between the
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Civil Service. At the last minute, however, it
would seem that the decree which was eventually finalized provided for a much larger
number than expected by the Bank. The target in the results framework was that gross
hiring into the civil service should not exceed 3,018, compared to 3,720 in 2010. The
decree provided for a total recruitment of 4,921 (3,500 for education, 1,295 for health and
186 for justice). Recruitments in the health and justice sector generally followed a
competitive process. In the education sector, the Ministry sent lists of newly recruited
teachers to the Ministry of Civil Service. A large part of the beneficiaries were already
working as teachers but without being paid.

41.     Prior action 5: The indicator set for “double dippers? was met and the other one
concerning civil servants beyond retirement age was met in spirit. Following an internal
review, the Government concluded that there were 2,610 “double dippers?. The names of
some 1,300 people were taken off the payroll. Sanctions against serious offenders were
mild, however. They were not excluded from the civil service, nor were they asked to
reimburse salaries they had been unduly received. They were simply downgraded. As
concerns civil servants beyond retirement age, the Government identified 1,571
individuals who were over the 65 or 60 years limit (depending on the category). In June
2011, the Minister enacted a decree declaring that the persons concerned would retire
with effect as of the end of 2011. The second target was met in substance. While this was
not part of the program, the Government retrenched 4,200 security sector personnel and
gave them a payment equivalent to three-month salary.

42.     Prior action 6: The target was met. A draft mining code was available in June
2011. It was approved on September 9, 2011 after large consultations. It gives the
Government the right to acquire 35 percent of a mining project, of which 10 percent at no
cost. The Government‟s capacity to buy shares in mining projects is severely constrained
by the lack of resources, however. The code includes transparency and good governance
provisions, such as competitive process for mining concessions and publication of
contracts, as was noted by international NGOs active in the sector. On November 9, 2011
the Government announced that it was prepared to change a number of tax clauses to
make Guinea more attractive to investors. The Government is keen on revisiting old
contracts with the 6 mining companies operating in Guinea, deemed to be unfavorable to
Guinea‟s interests. The process would require an audit of these contracts, but the
Government does not have the resources needed for the audits (about US$3.8 million).

Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

43.     All indicators were met overall, with the exception of gross hiring into the
civil service. Overall performance was strong. The objective of facilitating clearance

                                                                               13 | P a g e
arrears was achieved. Basic fiscal discipline was restored. In retrospect, stricter criteria
for single source contracts should have been agreed upon upfront. In the area of payroll
management, good progress was made in identifying “double dippers? and civil servants
beyond retirement age, but the follow up measures to this identification were weak.
Moreover, exceptions to the hiring freeze were too lax. Considerable work is still
required to improve the recruitment of civil servants, restore discipline, and improve
efficiency of the civil service. In the mining sector, the Government has taken a first step
in enacting a good practice Mining Code. It needs assistance to implement it and correct
basic flaws in older contracts.

44.    Taking account of the relevance of the operation design and achievement of
development objectives, the operation is rated moderately satisfactory.

Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty impacts, Gender Aspects and Social Development

45.     The operation was a rapid response to an emergency situation. The operation
was expected to have a positive social impact in the medium-term, but some measures,
such as the reduction in petroleum subsidies and the elimination from the payroll of civil
servants beyond retirement age, would have a negative social impact. In the revised
budget approved in October 2011, the transport allowance was adjusted to partially
mitigate the increase in fuel prices. Civil servants identified as being beyond retirement
age in early 2011 will feel the impact of receiving a pension at a lower level than their
salaries in 2012 only. In any event, they should have retired a while ago and it is
therefore difficult to blame the operation for a negative social impact in this area.

Institutional Strengthening

46.    The DPO was instrumental in introducing significant institutional reforms in
public financial management. In the area of human resource management, little was
achieved.

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

Not Applicable.

Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not Applicable.




                                                                                14 | P a g e
4. Assessment of risk to development outcome

47.     Despite strong progress made in re-establishing basic discipline in public
sector management, the situation in Guinea is fragile. The forthcoming legislative
elections are fraught with dangers if not carefully monitored with the help of the
international community. In the absence of a far reaching reform of the security sector the
risks of returning to a form of military rule are high. On the other hand, the risk of a
possible spillover from conflicts in neighboring countries has subsided. The debt burden
is unsustainable and reaching the HIPC completion point as rapidly as possible is
essential. The risk of debt service payment default is high. The economic benefits from
the ongoing stabilization will materialize in the medium-term. In the meanwhile, the
living conditions of the population are not improving and the democracy dividend will
take time to materialize. The risk to development outcome is high.

5. Assessment of bank and borrower performance

Bank performance

48.     Following the return to democratic rule, the Bank moved fast in preparing
an operation designed to facilitate the clearance of arrears to IDA. The reform
program supported by the operation was highly relevant to Guinea‟s situation. The
operation focused on key measures, which could be taken rapidly for reintroducing basic
discipline and controls in the public sector. It was a single tranche operation, which was
highly appropriate. The Bank provided strong support to the Government in the analysis
of the 2009 and 2010 contracts. Consultants were mobilized and made their
recommendations within an extremely short period. In the absence of an IMF program,
the Bank approved the re-engagement on the basis of an assessment letter provided by the
IMF.

49.     The shortcomings in the design of the operation are in part due to the need
for a rapid follow-up operation to close the remaining financing gap in 2011. The
closing date of the grant was set at the end of August 2011 to leave space for an
evaluation of results before moving with the next operation. The signing of an agreement
with Rio Tinto the day after Board approval of the operation under review removed the
need to proceed with a second operation rapidly, however. The targets set for end-August
2011 were modest. It would have been advisable to use the policy development letter to
define a set of actions to be taken after operation approval, such as, for instance, (i) an
action plan and schedule for the settlement of the 2009-10 contracts; (ii) the tightening up
existing regulations for reducing the possibility of single source contracts and (iii) an
action plan to address the anomalies in the payroll (“double dippers? and civil servants
over the retirement age) in a swift manner, including sanctions as appropriate. By the


                                                                                15 | P a g e
time the team had negotiated the prior actions with the authorities, however, it felt it had
reached the limit of what was politically and technically acceptable to the Government.

50.     Little was done in a formal way to monitor progress in meeting program
implementation. Frequent video conferences were organized, but given the importance
of the operation for Bank re-engagement in Guinea, it would have been most useful for
the country office to keep a record on program implementation through monthly reports.
This was not done, however.

51.    Overall, the Bank performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.


Borrower Performance

52.     The Government took the prior actions agreed upon swiftly. It re-established
basic controls in public financial management, including by executing public expenditure
on a cash basis. The use of exceptional procedures in budget execution was drastically
curtailed. Appropriate measures were taken to stabilize the economy. Steps were taken to
reduce the payroll, including in the security sector. The fuel price adjustment mechanism
was re-introduced, which contributed to strengthen revenue mobilization. A new Mining
Code, including best governance and transparency practices was adopted following
extensive consultations. On the other hand, the Government was slow in taking
appropriate steps for the settlement of the 2009-10 contracts. It established a settlement
committee (see Annex 4) but did not provide guidance, with the result that in its first
report in October 2011, the committee recommended that most contracts be renegotiated,
contrary to the recommendation made by the audit in February. The Government did not
tighten criteria for single source contracts, nor did it take adequate sanctions against civil
servants who committed fraud through double dipping. The Government monitored
budget execution, but did not publish monthly reports.

53.    Overall, the Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

54.      When, after a steep downward spiral, conditions in a country change for the
better, it is important for the Bank to seize the opportunity in a speedy way.

55.    Prior actions for a re-engagement operation should be simple and should not
require extensive preparatory work. They should demonstrate the Government
commitment to make a break with the past practices, which led the country into default.




                                                                                 16 | P a g e
56.    An action plan should be agreed upon with the Government to ensure that the
reform process proceeds in an efficient way after Board approval. The letter of
development policy should provide a framework for monthly monitoring of the action
plan by the Government and the Bank.

57.     Technical assistance is generally needed to help the Government move beyond
the prior actions. A Technical assistance project is under preparation, but its processing is
taking much longer than anticipated.

58.    The country office should be responsible for monitoring program implementation
on a monthly basis.

59.     All re-engagement operations are highly risky. Experience shows that the high
benefits of these operations generally outweigh their high risks. It shows also that the risk
of not doing anything may have highly negative consequences.


7. Comments on issues raised by borrower/implementing agencies/partners

60.     The government of Guinea has sent a letter to the Bank on February 18, 2012 with
their comments on the ICR and their assessment of the operation. The letter is in Annex
6.




                                                                                 17 | P a g e
Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members

                                                                    Responsibility/
           Names                       Title              Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending/Supervision
 Emmanuel Fiadzo          Sr. Economist                   AFTP3   TTL
 Renaud Seligmann         Manager                        AFTFM    Co-TTL
 Alpha Mamoudou Bah       Procurement specialist         AFTPC    Procurement
 Luca Bandiera            Economist                      PRMED
 Boubacar Bocoum          Senior Mining Specialist       SEGOM    Mining
 Wolfgang M.T. Chadab     Senior Finance Officer         CTRLA    Disbursement
 Sebastien Dessus         Lead economist                  AFTP4
                          Sr. Public Sector Mngment.
Giulio De Tommaso                                        AFTPR Public Sector
                          Specialist
Yannick Hingorani         Consultant
                          Monitoring & Evaluation
Anders Jensen                                            AFTDE M&E
                          Specialist
                          Sr. Financial Management
Ousmane Kolie                                            AFTFM Financial Mgt.
                          specialist
Mamady Koulibaly          Economist                      AFTP3
Anthony Molle             Sr. Counsel                    LEGAF Lawyer
Allan Rotman              Lead Procurement Specialist    AFTPC Procurement
Josette Percival          Temporary                      AFTP4
Glaucia Reis Ferreira     Language Program Assistant     AFTP4
Maude Valembrun           Languague Program Assistant    AFTP3
Judite Fernandes          Language Program Assistant     AFTP4

(b) Staff Time and Cost

            Stage            Staff Time and Cost (Bank
                                    Budget Only)
                                  No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
 Lending
            FY11                       45.53                     $339,802.47
            Total:                     45.53                     $339,802.47
 Supervision/ ICR
            FY11                        1.80                      $6,289.92
            FY12                        0.76                      $42,621.76
            Total:                      2.56                      $48,911.68




                                                                         18 | P a g e
Annex 2: 2011 Budget execution 1

Context. The budget includes 69 lines. There are 23 lines where allocations are less than
US$1 million equivalent, 16 sectoral entities and the 7 regions, which received each an
average subsidy equivalent to US$43,238 in 2011. The 16 sectoral entities concerned
should be consolidated with other institutions. Further consolidation would be advisable.
For instance, in the security sector, besides the Ministry of Defense, there are four
ministries in charge of security, including one for the President‟s security. Three
ministries are in charge of external affairs, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the
Ministry in charge of international cooperation and the Ministry in charge of Guineans
living abroad. Even before completion of the comprehensive functional review of
ministries and departments, first a streamlining of the system would be most useful. This
could be done for the 2012 budget.

Table 1 below shows the total amounts (including capital budget) allocated in the 2011
budget, and committed and disbursed as of August 31, 2011. The table includes three
sectors (sovereignty, economy and social) and a category called general (dépenses
communes in French), which includes for instance the utility bills for all public
institutions. Table 2 shows the percentage of each sector in the total amount of
allocations, commitments and disbursements and the percentages of funds committed and
disbursed to allocations. The figures in italic in Table 2 show the percentages of each
sector in the total after excluding the general expenditure category. The total amount of
the 2011 budget is equivalent to about US$1.13 billion.

Table 1 Budget execution as of August 2011 (in GF million)

    Sector         Approved      Committed        Disbursed
    Sovereignty    2,385,732      1,375,237       1,191,668
    Economy        1,339,272        658,665         453,072
    Social         1,539,067        750,833         653,944
    Regions                2              1               1
    General Exp.   2,650,501        777,945         542,077
    Total          7,925,495      3,563,787       2,841,361

The figures in the total line are extracted from the budget documents. Due to rounding,
the totals of sectoral figures are slightly different from the figures in the total line




1
    The annexes were produced during the ICR mission to Guinea in November 2011


                                                                                19 | P a g e
Table 2. Budget execution as of August 31, 2011 in percentages

    Sector     % allocations        %                %          %comm/alloc    %disb/alloc
                                commitments    disbursements
 Sovereignty   30        45    39        49   42           52        57             50
 Economy       17        25    18        24   16           20        49             34
 Social        19        29    21        27   23           28        49             42
 General       33              22             19                     29             20
 Total         100             100            100                    45             36


Table 2 shows the percentages of total expenditures, excluding the general expenditure
category, allocated to the sovereignty sector (45%), the economic sectors (25%) and the
social sectors (27%). It shows also that the ratio of disbursements at en August 2011 to
allocations was 50% for the sovereignty sector, 34% for the economic sectors and 42%
for the social sectors.
Table 3 below shows the share of key departments in total expenditure, excluding the
general category, and their commitment and disbursement percentages. Only departments
with an allocation over GF 1 billion have been included.

Table 3. Key institutions

Share in total allocation (%)                 % disbursed as of end August 2011
Presidency                            4       54
Defense                               25      65
Foreign Affairs                       6       18
Interior                              3       11
Security                              3       37
Finance                               2       52
Public Works                          7       30
Urban                                 2       10
Energy                                3       48
Health                                4       24
Education                             12      56
Higher Education                      10      40

The Ministry of Defense benefits from the largest allocation (25 percent) and has the
highest disbursement rate (65 percent). Other institutions with a disbursement ratio higher
than 50 percent include the Presidency, Finance and Education. The high disbursement
rate for the latter is due to the importance of the wage bill in the budget of primary and
secondary education. The Health Department has a low disbursement rate of 24 percent.
It is worth noting that the budget for higher education is almost as big as the one for
primary and secondary education. The Ministries of Foreign Affairs and of the Interior
have extremely low disbursement ratios. The Ministry of Justice has a 2011 allocation
(GF 32 billion) lower than the allocations for the ministries of youth and of sports. Its
disbursement rate at end August 2011 was 34 percent. The Ministry of Mining has low
allocation of about GF 30 billion, which is very low in view of the importance of the

                                                                               20 | P a g e
mining sector for Guinea‟s development. Its disbursement rate at end August 2011 was
37 percent.

The analysis above shows that Guinea needs to better align its budget allocations with the
TPRSP objectives.




                                                                              21 | P a g e
Annex 3: Selected macroeconomic indicators

                                                 2008     2009    2010            2011

                                                Actual   Actual    Est.          Prog.
            Real GDP growth (% annual change)      4.9     -0.3     1.9            4.0
Real GDP per capita growth (same)                  1.7     -3.4
Inflation (end period)                            13.5      7.9   20.8            17.1

Revenue( % GDP)                                   15.6     16.5    15.6           17.2
Grants (% GDP)                                     0.5      0.4     0.4            3.5
Current expenditure (%GDP)                        13.4     16.8    20.9           16.3
(of which wage bill)                               4.1      5.1     5.8            6.2
(of which interest payment)                        2.6      2.1     2.1            1.8
Capital expenditure and net lending                4.0      7.3     9.3            6.7
Basic fiscal balance                               1.6     -5.6   -12.8           -2.0

Current account balance (%GDP)                    -7.5    -11.4   -11.9          -11.7




                                                                          22 | P a g e
Annex 4: Government contracts in 2009, 2010 and 2011

The Bank-supported audit of government contracts approved by the Ministry of Finance
in 2009 and 2010 reviewed a sample of 82 contracts out of a total of 617 in February
2011. The total amount of contracts in the sample was over GF 9 trillion out of a total of
GH 13.5 trillion for the two years.

The team of two auditors recommended a three-step approach:
      Freeze all contracts;
      Use the services of an audit firm represented in Guinea to check physical
       progress, disbursement status and the justification of detailed estimates; and
      Negotiate with contractors and suppliers to recover advances with inadequate
       justification, as a first step before contract cancellation or validation of contracts
       on the basis of strict unit costs.

The team recommended that 13 contracts be cancelled out of the 29 for which they made
specific recommendations.

The same team visited Guinea in July 2011. The team recommended that (i) a settlement
committee be created; (ii) 10 teams including inspectors and technicians be established
and adequately funded to carry out site inspections for the contracts outside the sample,
using a methodology and materials developed by the team; (iii) a new procurement code
be enacted; and (iv) a set of reference prices for key works and goods be established.
On July 18, 2011, the Prime Minister enacted a decree establishing the settlement
committee with the mandate to
      Review physical and financial conditions of contracts on the basis of reports by
       field missions;
      Review with technical ministries all contractual expenditures;
      Make recommendations on how to handle contracts; and
      Prepare a monthly report.

The Committee includes seven members from the Presidency, Prime Minister‟s office,
Ministry of Economy and Finance, Ministry of Economic and Financial Control, Ministry
of Public Works, Ministry of Urban Development and Administration in charge of large
projects control.

The decree did not specify that the review should cover the 2009/2010 contracts nor did it
set a time limit for the review.

The members were formally appointed on September 30, but no operating budget was
allocated to the committee. The committee decided to start working on a first set of 37
contracts, which had been reviewed by the Bank-supported audit. Other contracts were
put into two categories, the 73 contracts for which site inspections are to be carried out by
local teams and the 507 contracts, for which the Ministry of Economy and Finance
requested technical ministries to fill out project sheets developed by the audit team.

                                                                                 23 | P a g e
The settlement committee‟s first report in October was endorsed by the Prime Minister
on November 14. It made recommendations on seven contracts as follows:
      Cancel the GF 88 billion contract for the construction of the Donka hospital;
      Make last payment for a GF 31 billion contract for the rehabilitation of buildings
       in Samourenya military camp in Kindia;
      Endorse the reduction of the contract amount from GF 89 billion to 64 billion and
       resume works for the first phase of buildings in the same military camp;
      Endorse the reduction of the contract amount from GF 95 billion to 68 billion and
       resume works for the second phase of buildings in the same military camp;
      Endorse the reduction of the contract amount from GF 197 to 120 billion and
       resume works for the construction of facilities in the J. Makambo Loua military
       camp;
      Amend the contract and resume works under a GF 65 billion contract for urban
       roads in Boke and Boffa;
      Resume works and make payments for a GF 141 billion contract for urban roads
       in Forecariah and Coyah.
The net result of the committee‟s recommendations is a reduction of Government‟s
commitment from the equivalent of US$101 million to US$70 million.
The committee prepared its November report with recommendations on 7 contracts and
submitted it to the Prime Minister.
Technical ministries have filled out project sheets for 170 projects for review by the
settlement committee, as follows: Ministry of Defense 81 contracts, Ministry of
Education 21 contracts, Ministry of Higher Education 19 contracts, Ministry of Health 16
contracts, Ministry of Sports 12 contracts, Ministry of Communications six contracts,
Ministries of PTT, of Livestock and of Aquaculture three contracts each, and Ministries
of Literacy, of Youth and of Culture, one each.
An allocation of GF 202 million was approved on September 30, 2011 to finance
operating expenses of the joint teams (including representatives of the Finance
Inspectorate, the State Inspectorate and technical ministries) mandated to carry out field
visits to inspect the sites for 65 of the 73 contract mentioned above. The inspections are
ongoing.
The slow pace of auditing and settling the 2009/2010 contracts raises some doubts as to
the capacity of the Government to meet the HIPC completion trigger concerning audit of
all government contracts over GF 100 million.
2011 contracts

The Public Procurement Directorate (PPD) prepares quarterly reports on procurement.
PPD produced a consolidated report for the January to September 2011 period. This
report shows that 182 contracts were approved and registered for a total amount of GF
6.7 trillion (US$954 million), of which one contract for GF 3.4 trillion for the
construction of a power plant (see below). Out of the 182 contracts in 2011, 127 are

                                                                              24 | P a g e
financed by the national budget for a total amount of GF 6,550 billion and 30 by donors
for a total amount of GF 160 billion. Table 1 below shows the breakdown of contracts
and amounts by procurement method (open competition, short list and single source).

Table 1 Breakdown of contracts by procurement method

      Procedure          Number         %      Amount (billion       Amount          %
                                                   GF)              ($million)
  Open competition                 98    54                 263               37.4     4
  Short list                       35    19              4,172               593.7    62
  Single source                    49    27              2,272               323.4    34
  Total                           182   100              6,707               954.5   100

As shown in table 1, the proportion of contracts that are single source was 27 percent,
well below the 60 percent set as a target for end-August 2011 in the policy matrix. The
amount of these contracts was GF 2,272 billion, 34 percent of the total amount. All
contracts for the Ministry of Defense (10) and the Ministry of Commerce (16) were
single source for a total amount of GF 355 billion and GF 1,446 billion respectively
(US$50.6 million and US$205.8 million). The average size of these contracts was the
equivalent of US$5 million for the Ministry of Defense and US$13 million for the
Ministry of Commerce. In the Ministry of Defense, four contracts for a total amount of
US$32.2 million were approved for the procurement of rice and two contracts for a total
amount of US$2 million were approved for the purchase of 106 motorbikes. The Ministry
of Commerce bought 330,500 tons of rice through 13 contracts for a total amount
equivalent to US$143.8 million. The price of rice ranged from US288 to US$552 per ton
of rice. The average price was US$435 per ton (the average price of rice bought by the
Ministry of Defense was US$600 per ton). The three other contracts of the Ministry of
Commerce were for buying sugar.

Sixteen projects were approved for the Ministry of Energy, most of them through open
competition. One contract was single source for a total amount of GF125 billion
(US$17.8 million) for the rehabilitation of 2 units in a power plant. The justification for
using this procurement method was the urgency of providing electricity to the population.
Short listing was used for the selection of a Chinese company for the development of the
Kaleta power plant (total amount of GF 3,442 billion, equivalent to US$487 million). The
Presidency bought 115 cars and 50 SUVs from Toyota through two single source
contracts for a total amount equivalent to US$5.6 million. The average cost of the Toyota
Land Cruiser TXL 3.0 diesel is US$40,250.

On the other hand, one ministry (urban development) had all its ten contracts awarded
through open competition. They were all but one financed by external partners (IDA and
AFD).




                                                                                25 | P a g e
 Annex 5: Results Framework

 Broad policy objective 1: strengthen public financial management
 Prior action         Expected           Indicator          Baseline         Target    Actual value   Medium-term policies
                      outcome                                                                         and expected outcomes
                                                                                                      of government program
 Prior action 1. An   Reduced effect     Proportion of      37% (2010)       30%       Neg            Progress towards
 audit report on      of multi-year      capital                                                      transmission of a
 the legality,        contracts on       spending due                                                 revised procurement
 transparency and     2011, 2012 and     to 2009-10                                                   law to Parliament.
 budgetary impact     2013 budget        multi-year                                                   Little progress done.
 of single source     execution          contracts %
 contracts entered
 into in 2009 and
 2010 has been
 transmitted to the
 Recipient„s          Increased use      Proportion of
 President            of open and fair   all signed
                      competition in     public             91% (2010)
                      public             contracts that
                      procurement        are single                          60%       27%.
                                         source
 The Recipient has    Increased          Composition of     PEFA D           C         NA, but        Transmission of a
 taken regulatory     credibility of     expenditure                                   use of         revised organic budget
 measures to          the budget         out-turn                                      exceptional    bill renovating the
 strictly limit the                      compared to                                   procedures     PFM system to
 use of exceptional                      original                                      drastically    Parliament. Not yet
 budget execution                        approve                                       curtailed      done
 procedures as                           budget*
 well as
 exceptions to
 competitive
 bidding for public
 procurement and
 to impose
 sanctions to their
 misuse
 The Recipient has    Increased          Bank accounts      1,823 (2011)     1,700     789            Closure of non-project
 taken steps to       aggregate          of public                                                    related bank accounts
 implement a          control over       entities in                                                  of public entities held
 Treasury Single      government         commercial                                                   in commercial banks;
 Account, as          cash balances      banks (number)                                               creation of a system of
 evidenced by a                                                                                       Treasury
 report on a census                                                                                   Correspondents to
 of bank accounts                                                                                     oblige autonomous
 held by public                                                                                       public bodies to hold
 sector entities at                                                                                   their cash in Treasury
 the Central Banks                                                                                    controlled accounts at
 and in                                                                                               the Central Bank.
 commercial
 banks                                                                                                Treasury is in control.
Note: the indicator for prior action 2 was focused on aggregate expenditure out-turn, which was rated A in the 2007
PEFA; on the other hand the indicator mentioned above was rated D. In any event, it is impossible to arrive at a rating
before the end of the FY.




                                                                                                          26 | P a g e
  Broad Policy Objective 2: Strengthen public sector efficiency and accountability
Prior action         Expected        Indicator       Baseline   Target   Actual value          Medium-term policies
                     outcome                                                                   and expected
                                                                                               outcomes of
                                                                                               government program
The Recipient has    Increased       Gross           3,720      3,018    4,981                 The government
announced a          fiscal          hiring into     (2010)                                    works to
temporary freeze     discipline      the civil                                                 progressively
on all public                        service                                                   reduce the current
sector hiring,                       (number)                                                  workforce, while
except in the                                                                                  addressing critical
education and                                                                                  skills gaps. Total
health sectors and                                                                             public
for certain                                                                                    administration
personnel in the                                                                               employment
justice sector                                                                                 (excluding the
                                                                                               military) is
                                                                                               reduced by 10%
                                                                                               over the next 3
                                                                                               years to 111,600
                                                                                               by 2014

                                                                                               No progress.
The Recipient has    Increased       Duplicate       0          200      1,300                 Civil Service
blocked the wages    efficiency in   payroll                                                   database is cleaned
of individuals       payroll         entries from                                              of all irregularities,
claiming two civil   management      individuals                                               including double
service salaries                     claiming                                                  dippers, ghost
simultaneously                       multiple                                                  workers,
(“double dippers?)                   civil service                                             pensioners and
and civil servants                   salaries                                                  irregular
over 65 who                          removed                                                   appointments
remain on the                        from
government                           payroll                                                   God progress
payroll                              (number)                                                  made



                                     Civil
                                     servants
                                     over 65
                                     years of age
                                     removed
                                     from
                                     payroll
                                     (number)

                                                     0          200      1,571 individuals
                                                                         over retirement age
                                                                         slated to be
                                                                         removed from
                                                                         payroll at end 2011




                                                                                               27 | P a g e
Broad Policy Objective 3: Strengthen transparency in the mining sector
Prior action           Expected        Indicator       Baseline     Target   Actual   Medium-term policies
                       outcome                                               value    and expected
                                                                                      outcomes of
                                                                                      government program
The Recipient‟s        Increased       Updated and     No           Yes      Yes      Review of big
Council of             transparency    coherent                                       mining concession
Ministers has          from the        Mining          Outdated                       is undertaken.
approved and           mining sector   Code            an
publicly disclosed a                   including       incoherent                     No progress, as
mining                                 international   Mining                         funding for audit
transparency                           best            Code                           of concessions not
roadmap, including                     practices       (1995)                         yet mobilized.
the due process that                   drafted
will be followed to                    (yes/no)
revise the mining
code, consult
shareholders and
undertake a review
of large mining
contracts




                                                                                           28 | P a g e
Annex 6: Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR

Translation of the document received in French

Republic of Guinea
Work – Justice – Solidarity

Conakry, 18 February 2012

MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
No. 346/MEF/CAB/Ass/MEF/2012

The Minister,

To Mr. Ousmane DIAGANA
Director of Operations for Guinea
World Bank

Subject: Comments on the draft Budget Support Operation’s (DPO) Implementation
Completion Report (ICR)

Dear Sir,

First of all, I wish to thank you for inviting us to participate in the video-conference on
Monday, 13 February 2012 (at the World Bank Office in Conakry) to discuss the review
of the ICR on the DPO presented to the Board in April 2011.
The report received few weeks earlier, was reviewed in depth by our staff at the Ministry.

Overall, it clearly presents the achievements of the Government‟s program supported by
the DPO and we agree with the conclusion that the program implementation was
generally satisfactory (though project was implemented under very difficult
macroeconomic environment).

As you know, the main objective of the DPO was to facilitate clearance of arrears to the
International Development Association (IDA) and normalize relations between with the
World Bank after a difficult period during which our country was suspended from the
World Bank and other development Agencies. The objective of the said operation was
fully achieved (following resumption of cooperation with the Bank Group), World Bank
stalled portfolio was reactivated and new projects in various sectors were negotiated. We
very much appreciated visit to Guinea of ten Executive Directors recently (early February
2012)

The DPO also aimed at strengthening capacities at the public finance institutions
(including procurement), general public administration and at enhancing transparency in
the mining sector. In these sectors, the Government made very significant efforts, most of
which are described in the completion report.

                                                                               29 | P a g e
We wish to underscore the following points:

(i) As regards public finance management, including procurement:

          The Government in early 2011, froze the 2009-10 public procurement
           contracts – amounting to more than 40% of GDP – that were signed in
           violation of the Public Procurement Code; the contracts were audited by
           experts from the French Court of Auditors (with World bank financing).
           Contracts Regulation Committee was effectively set up to review the contracts
           and make recommendations to the Government for final processing of the
           contracts in question.
          Competitive selection procedures were put in place (through a Ministerial Act
           of 11 March 2011) which prohibits procurements without allocated budgetary
           credits and without prior signature of the Minister of Finance.
          The Government has adopted and implemented a law instituting a single
           Treasury account for all government entities, including State Corporations.
          It has streamlined public spending by strictly applying the cash-based budget
           system (through monthly treasury plans) approved by a Treasury Committee
           chaired by the Prime Minister. This has helped to avoid recourse to bank
           financing of the Treasury and reduced Government debt to the Central Bank;
          Efforts are being made to improve the legal framework of public finance: with
           Bank support and as such, project to revise the Public Procurement Code
           (which will establish a Contacts Regulation Agency) has also been prepared,
           with support from the IMF and other development partners. A draft organic
           law and a decree defining general regulations of public accounting, as well as
           the State Accounting Plan has been prepared;

(ii) With regards to the management of the public sector, including the public service:

      The Government has frozen recruitment into the public service, with the
       exception of the education, public health and justice sectors. It should be noted
       that the number of civil servants recruited in 2011 (agreed to during the project
       appraisal) was slightly higher than the number previously agreed with the World
       Bank, however the recruitment into these three sectors was lower than planned;
      Pursuant to a decree signed in June 2011, the Government effectively retrenched
       1,434 civil servants who have reached the retirement age on or before December
       2011; and
      The Government has extended the biometric census to include the entire public
       service, after removing ghost workers from the payroll (with World Bank support
       under the new governance TA operation)

                                                                               30 | P a g e
(iii) On transparency in the mining sector:

      The Government has published a road map for reforms in the mining sector;
      The Government has adopted and enacted a new Mining Code that is consistent
       with international practices in the sector. The code protects Guinea‟s interests and
       allow for fair treatment of mining companies in Guinea; the Code is transparent
       and encourages local development and environmental protection in mining zones;
      The Government has finalized standard mining agreement, which will soon be
       submitted to the Cabinet Meeting for approval;
      With the lifting of suspension, Guinea again reactivated membership in the
       Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) on 1 March 2011. The
       Government has started working on the audit of the statements of mining
       companies for the years not previously covered; and
      It has prepared a programme to: (1) design an incentive framework for
       public/private partnership, (2) improve the mining cadaster so as to further
       enhanced its management, (3) audit mining contracts to ensure that companies
       fulfill their legal obligations and comply with the general principles of the Mining
       Code.

The Government is determined to pursue its efforts in strengthening public finance
management, modernization of the public service, and promotion of transparency in the
mining sector. This commitment is clearly expressed in the Letter of Intent and Economic
and Financial Policy Statement signed recently under a medium-term program, which
could be supported under the IMF Enhanced Credit Facility. The program, which will be
considered by the IMF Executive Board on 24 February 2012, should pave the way for
our country to reach the completion point of the Enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries Initiative (HIPC Initiative).

The Government has taken note of the moderately satisfactory rating relating to the
implementation of the DPO. We are of the view that the rating could have been
satisfactory, since the objectives have been amply achieved, taking into account the
efforts made in implementing the DPO in a rather difficult economic environment.
Nevertheless, the Government is aware that there are still major challenges ahead,
particularly as regards governance and transparency. We undertake to make more efforts
and implement the lessons learned, as well as the recommendations made following the
implementation of this program. In particular, the Government is determined to apply the
new Public Procurement Code strictly, and to seek the involvement of its development
partners, especially the World Bank, in the preparation, implementation and supervision
of its priority investment projects.

In conclusion, I wish to thank you for the World Bank‟s role in helping to organize the
next Consultative group meeting on Guinea and the Economic Forum. I also would like
use this opportunity to request another DPO in 2012 to support our reform efforts. We are
interested in a another DPO because of the spin-off effect it could have on the other

                                                                               31 | P a g e
development partners, as well as the positive impression it could create among
development partners regarding our reform effort in the public financial management, in
view of the adoption of a formal IMF-backed program. The budget support could be
designed in such manner as to avoid net negative flows to Guinea from the World Bank.
It could also help to pursue efforts towards consolidating the stabilization of the
macroeconomic framework, as well as good governance achievements in public finance,
the public service, and transparency in the management of the agricultural, energy,
mining sectors and private sector development.
Thank you.

Kerfalla YANSANE




                                                                           32 | P a g e
                                                             To
                                                             To
                                              14°W           Tambacounda
                                                             Tambacounda                                                      12°W                                                                   10°W                                                                                       8°W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                       SENEGAL                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kayes
                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                       To                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                               To                      Kayes                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                               Tambacounda
                                                                                                                               Tambacounda
                                                To
                                                To          Koundara                                                                                                                                                                                                              To Bamako
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                            Tambacounda
                                            Tambacounda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Nyagassola




                                                                                                                            G
                                                                                                                            G
                                                                                                                            G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MALI




                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                             am
                  GUI N E A-B I S S AU




                                                                      To m in




                                                                                                                                b
                                                                                                                                b
                                                                                                                                bia
                                                          Foulamôri
                                                          Foulamô
                                                          Foulamôri                                                  Mali                Balaki




                                                                             é
                                                                             é
                                                                             é
                12°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12°N
                             To
                             To
                            Bafatá
                            Bafatá
                                                                                                         MOYENNE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Doko                               er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ig
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                                                                    Gaoual
                                                                                                              GUINEE                                                                                                 Kintinian
                                                                                                     Lélouma
                                                                                                     Lélouma
                                      n




                                                                                                                                      Tongue
                                                                                                                                      Tongue
                                     go




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To Bougouni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To




                                                                                                                                                   g
                                     Ko




                                                                                                                                                  fin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Siguiri
                                                                                                                          Labé
                                                                                                                          Labé




                                                                                                                                                  Ba
                                                                                                                                                          Dinguiraye                                              Tinkis so
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         so




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ar
                                                           Sangarédi
                                                           Sangaré
                                                           Sangarédi                                               Pita                                                           HAUTE                               Niandankoro




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          nk
                           Sansalé
                           Sansalé




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sa
                                          Boké
                                          Boké                                                      limé
                                                                                                  Télimélée
                                                                                                  Télimélée                                                                      GUINEE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Nige
                                                   GUINEE                                                                                         Dabola        Bissikrima
                          Kamsar                                                                                Dalaba                                                                      Kouroussa                                        Mandiana
                                                 M A R I T I M oE
                                                                                     n k o ur é
                                                                                 K
                                                                                 K
                                                                                 K




                                                             Fria
                                                                                                                               Mamou                                                                                                    Kankan
                                                 Boffa
                                                 Boffa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o
                                                                                       Kindia




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 M il
                                                                                                                                                                            Faranah
                10°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                              tan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Moribaya
                                                         Dubréka




                                                                                                                                                                                                          an




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Di
                                                                                                                                                                              Tiro
                                                                                                                                                                              Tiro                            i




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         on




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sank ni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            i
                                                                            Coyah                                                                                                                         N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sankaran
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          n
                  AT L A N T I C
                                                                                                            é




                                           CONAKRY
                                                                                                         ent




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                         Forécariah
                                                                                         Forécariah
                                                                                         Foré
                                                                                                        Kol




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Korhogo
                       OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kérouane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kérouane                      Sokourala
                                                 14°W                                                                          To
                                                                                                                               To                     To
                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                            Magburaka              Magburaka                                         Kissidougou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sibiribaro
                                                                                                                SIERRA LEONE
                         G UINE A                                                                    To
                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                  Freetown
                                                                                                                                                                                            Guéckédou
                                                                                                                                                                                            Guécké
                                                                                                                                                                                            Guéckédou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Beyla

                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                               Macenta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GUINEE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Boola


                                                                                                                                                                                     na
                         PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                          ko                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                 Ma
                         REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                        FORESTIERE                                                                     gué
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Séguéla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Séguéla


                         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8°N
                                                                                                                  GUINEA
                         RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                         Nzé -koré
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Nzéré-koré
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Nzéré-koré                     Lola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       s.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mt. Nimba
                         MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                        LIBERIA                                                                               (1752 m)          CÔTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ba
                         RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                 Yomou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Yomou               im                                        D'IVOIRE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N
                         PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                             Dié
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Diéké
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Diéké
NOVEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                               0       20    40        60       80   100 Kilometers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33414
                         REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                               0            20             40        60           80 Miles                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To
                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Man
                                                                                                                              12°W                                                                   10°W                                                                                       8°W
