Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/S 32Z?2- /0
Reort No. 8333-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
NOVEMBER 26, 1990
Industry aid Energy Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Region
lfhis domnent has a resrcted disribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomanoe of
their offlial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed whout World Bak aulhoulzioid



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 1, 1990)
Currency Unit  =  Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00  =  Rp 1,830
Rp 1 billioni =  US$0.546 iilllion
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 British Thermal Unit (Btu)  =  0.252 Kilocalories (Kcal)
1 Metric ton (t)               =  1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 Metric ton (t)               =  2,209 pounds (lb)
1 Cubic meter (m3)             =  35.32 Cubic Feet (cuft)
1 Standard Cubic Foot (SCF)
of Natural Gas              =  1,000 Btu
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia - April 1 - March 31
Fertilizer Companies   - January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAF          -  P.T. ASEAN Aceh Fertilizer
APPI         -  Indonesian Fertilizer Producers' Association
AS           - Ammonium sulfate
ASEAN        -  Association of South-East Asian Nations
BAPPENAS     -  National Development Planning Board
BI           -  Bank Indonesia
BPKP         -  Financial and Development Supervisory Board
BNI          -  Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
EKUIN        - Minister Coordinator for Economics, Financial and Industrial
Affairs, and for the Supervision of Development
GOI          -  Government of Indonesia
Gresik       -  P.T. Petrokimia Gresik
ICB          -  International competitive bidding
IKPT         -  P.T. Inti Karya Persada Tehnik
Kaltim       -  P.T. Pupuk Kalimantan Timur
KC1          -  Muriate of potash, or potash, or potassium chlloride
KLH          -  Ministry of Population and the Environment
KONEBA       -  P.T. Konservasi Energy Abadi
Kujang       -  P.T. Pupuk Kujang
Mr4SCFD      - Million Standard Cubic Feet per day
MMBtu        - Million British Thermal Unit
MOA          -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOI          - Ministry of Industry
MOF          - Ministry of Finance
PERTAMINA    -  National Oil and Gas Company
PFE          -  Participating fertilizer enterprises
PIM          -  P.T. Pupuk Iskandar Muda
PUSRI        -  P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja
REPELITA V   -  Fifth Five-Year Development Plan, 1989/90-1993-94
SBI          -  Sertifikat Bank Indonesia (BI Domestic Money Market
Certificate Rate)
SCB          -  State Commercial Bank
SLA          -  Subsidiary Loan Agreement
tpd          -  Tons per day
tpy          -  Tons per year
TSP          -  Triple superphosphate



INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTUIRING PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:       Five State-owned Fertilizer Manufacturing Companies:
Gresik, PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and PUSRI.
Amountt              $221.7 million equivalent
Lending Terms:       The proposed loan would be made at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate for a term of 20 years including 5
years of grace.
Onlending Terms:    The proceeds of the loar would be onlent to the five
fertilizer companies for periods of either 10 or 15 years,
including respective grace periods of three and five
years, at a variable interest rate reflecting the market
rate for domestic term funds. The five fertilizer
companies would also pay commitment fees equal to those
payable by the Government to the Bank under the loan. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:      The overall objectives of the Project would be to:
(a) assist the Government in implementing an agreed
Statement of Fertilizer Sector Policies; (b) support an
industry-wide investment program; (c) identify the scope
for improved efficiency in marketing and distribution; and
(d) assess the industry's environmental impact and
standards, and prepare an environmental management
program. The Project's components would be: (a) building
a new ammonia/urea facility at Gresik, with a capacity of
1,350 tons per day (tpd) of ammonia and 1,400 tpd of urea,
to provide low-cost ammonia to existing operations and to
supply low-cost urea in East Java, and modernization of
Gresik's existing plants; (b) undertaking optimization
investments in four fertilizer plants (Lskandar Muda,
Kaltim, Kujang, and PUSRI) to realize productivity gains,
energy savings, environmental improvements and product
diversification; and (c) supporting preparation of a
marketing and distribution study and of an overall
fertilizer industry assessment of environmental impacts,
including identification of long-term objectives for
environmental improvement and an action program to ensure
that the industry meets appropriate standards.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
Benefits:            The main project benefits would be an improvement in the
industry's performance, a reduction of budget subsidies,
and minimization of the adverse environmental impact of
fertilizer production.
Risks:               The investments to be supported under the Project do not
present significant risks. The timely availability of
natural gas to the Gresik ammonia/urea plant is a
potential risk. To account for this risk no disbursements
would be made for expenditures under the Gresik
Restructuring Component until a contract, satisfactory to
the Bank, for the provision of the required natural gas to
Gresik has been executed oni behalf of Gresik and
PERTAMINA. The main sector-wide risks are that domestic
ex-factory prices may not be increased to border prices as
anticipated and that internatiGnal fertilizer prices may
not be in line with Bank forecasts. The first risk is
niinimized by the Government's stated objective in the
Policy Statement to bring ex-factory prices to their
economic levels. The latter risk is acceptable, since the
industry has a relatively low variable cost structure and
even at significantly lower prices it would remain
financially viable.
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign   Total
----- (US$ million)…
Gresik Restructurlng /a                   118.5      135.1      253.6
Optimiization                               16.3      75.8       92.1                  -
Studies                                     0.2        0.7        0.9                 N
Base Cost (June 1990)                  135.0      211.6      346.6
Physical contingencies                       0.9       4.2        5.1
Expected price increases                     1.2       6.6        7.8
Interest during construction               64.8        -         64.8
Working capital                             20.0       -         20.0
Total Financing Required               221.9      222.4      444.3
/a  Includes iheuitifiable taxes oni services estimated at $4.0 million.



- iii-
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign   Total
----- (USS million) -----
Enterprises' equity                       143.8        0.7      144.5
IBRD /                                       -       221.7      221.7
Medium-term borrowing (BNI) /b              58.1       -         58.1
Slhort-term borrowing (BNI) /b             20.0        -         20.0
Total                                  221.9      222.4      444.3
/a   Includes retroactive financing of up to $22.2 million for eligible
expenditures incurred by the fertilizer enterprises after January 15,
1990, to cover advanced procurement of imported equipment and services.
/c   Bank Negara Indonesia 1946.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY              1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
---------  $ million) ----------------
Annual:              22.2   55.1   65.0   37.0   25.0   13.0    4.4
Cumulative:          22.2   77.3  142.3  179.3  204.3  217.3  221.7
Economic Rate
of Return:         Gresik anmonia/urea plant:  21 percent.



- iv .
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE FERTILIZER SECTOR . . .        .......  .. ....... ..1
A. Structure and Performance  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  1
Structure and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
Fertilizer Consumption Trends . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
Distribution and Marketing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     4
Fertilizer Pricing.. .                                      5
Fertilizer Production    .     .    .                       6
Investment Program  . . . ..                   . . . .      8
B. The Policy Framework....                                       9
C. The Sector and the Natural Environment . . . . . . . . . .    10
II.  THE BANK'S PAST LENDING, STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR
INVOL'iEMENT IN THE SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
A. The Bank's Past Lending in the Fertilizer Sector . . . . .    12
B. The Bankle Strategy and Rationale for Involvement in
the  Sector   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  lS
III.    THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  *    . .    . .  15
A. Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
B. The P.T. Petrokimia Gresik Restructuring Component . . . .    15
Gresik's New Ammonia/Urea Plant . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Modernization of Gresik's Existing Fertilizer Plants  .    16
C. The Optimization Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
D. The Studies Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
E. Project Organization and Implementation  . . . . . . . . .    20
IV.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING PLAN AND LOAN FEATURES  . . . . . . .    23
A.  Project  Cost  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
B. Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      26
C. Features of the Loan . . . . . . . . . . .27
Onlending Arrangements . . . . . .                         27
Loan Administration   ..30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia in
March/April 1990. The mission consisted of J. Gamba (AS5IE), H. Murphy
(AS5IE) and C. Escudero (LEGAS). D. Brown (ASTIF), K. Constant (ASTIF) and
S. Venkataraman (Consultant) also participated in project preparation.



- v -
V. FINANCIAL, ECONOMIC, AND ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS, AND PROJECT
RISKS .,. ..                           ........... .   33
A. Financial Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     33
B. Economic Analysis  ....  .  .  .    .. ....  .    .....   .    37
C. Environental Analysis .n.y.i.s. .  .  .  ...   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  39
D. Project Risks  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......  .  .   .  41
VI.  UNDERSTANDINGS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED . . . . . . . . . . . .
TABLES IN THE TEXT
1.1  Indonecia - Historical Growth in Fertilizer Consumpcion
1.2  Indonebia - Projected Fertilizer Consumption . . . . . . . . .
1.3  Estimated Fertilizer Economic Subsidies  . . . . . . . . . . .
1.4  Fertilizer Production Capacity and Output in 1989  . . . . . .8
2.1  Bank Operations and Evaluation of Project Performance in the
Fertilizer Sector  ... .  .  .  .    . . .13
4.1  Project Cost Summary ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  23
4.2  P.T. Petrokimina Gresik Restructuring Component - Capital
Cost  Estimate  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
4.3  Optimization Component - Capital Cost Estimate . . . . . . . .     25
4.4  Studies Component - Cost Estimate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     26
4.5    Financing  Plan  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
4.6  Initial Allocation of Loan Proceeds to Participating
Fertilizer Enterprises .2.8. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  28
4.7  Procurement Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     30
4.8 Allocation of Bank Loan  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  32
5.1  Gresik - Historical Financial Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     33
5.2  Gresik - Projected Financial Data With Project . . . . .           35             -
5.3  P.T. Petrokimina Gresik Ammonia/Urea Plant - Summary of
Financial Rates of Return  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  37
5.4  P.T. Petrokimina Gresik Ammonia/Urea Plant - Summary of
Economic Rates of Return ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  39
ANNEXES
1.  Government of Indonesia Statement of Policy
2.  Fertilizer Sector - Statistical Data and Analysis
3.  Terms of Reference
A. Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution Studies
B. Development of Fertilizer Industry Environmental
Improvement Program
4.  Project Cost and Financing Plan
5.  Detailed Capital Cost Estimates
6.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
7.  Financial and Economic Analysis
8.  Key Implementation Indicators and Supervision Plan
9.  Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP  IBRD No. 22141R1



I. THE FERTILIZER SECTOR
A. Structure and Performance
Structure and Organization
1.1       During the past two decades, Indonesia has successfully developed
and implemented a policy of promoting food self-sufficiency, particularly in
rice, and including support for all agricultural inputs such as fert4lizers,
extension, seeds, irrigation, and research. The major agricultural j.F.ograms
for this purpose have been developed and managed by the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA). The fertilizer sector, in all aspects of production and
marketing, has been managed by the Ministry of Industry (OI) as an important
element contributing to the above programs. A large investment program has
been planned and implemented in the public sector to produce and deliver
fertilizers from domestic plants, which primarily produce urea based on
domestic natural gas resources, to minimize risks that farmers may face from
the uncertainties of imported fertilizer supplies and highly fluctuating
international fertilizer prices. Large marketing and distribution
infrastructure facilities have been built, mostly in the public sector, to
ensure timely and adequate delivery of fertilizers to the farmers at
affordable prices. The farmgate fertilizer prices have been maintainod at low
and uniform levels country wide through a system of price subsidies managed
directly by the Government. The Government is aware of the negative impacts
of these subsidies and has taken steps and will continue to adopt measures to
sustain a more economically efficient fertilizer industry (Annex 1).  The
current structure of the Indonesian fertilizer sector should be viewed in this
broad context.
1.2       At present, the Indonesian fertilizer industry consists of six
government-owned companies (PUSRI, Kujang, Gresik, Kaltim, Iskandar Muda, and
Aceh--the last owned Jointly with the ASEAN partners) with a total installed
capacity of 5.0 million tons per year (tpy) of urea, 1.2 million tpy of triple
superphosphate (TSP) and 0.65 million tpy of ammonium sulfate (AS). The total
fertilizer requirements of the Indonesian farmers are obtained essentially
from the above producers, supplemented as required through imports, and
provided to the farmers through a fertilizer distribution network solely
managed by PUSRI. There has been concern, however, that the absence of
competition in the domestic marketplace has prevented all achievable
efficiencies from being reached.
Fertilizer Consumption Trends
1.3       The historical consumption of the four major fertilizer products is
presented in Annex 2-1 and summarized in Table 1.1 below.



- 2 -
Table 1.1: INDONESIA - HISTORICAL GROWTH IN FERTILIZER CONSUMPTION
(thousand tons of product)
Year                               Urea        TSP        AS      KW1       Total
1975                                  676       235        94       34      1,039
1980                               1,776        494       330      123      2,723
1985                               2,607      1,048       475      290      4,420
1986                               2,715      1,165       473      238      4,591
1967                                2,686     1,191       553      270      4,700
1988                               2,930      1,219       585      496      5,230
1989 (Estimated)                    3,065     1 514       653      635      5,867
Annual Growth Rate (Percentage)
1975/85                              14.5      16.1      17.6     23.9       15.6
1980/85                               8.0      16.2       7.6     18.7       10.2
1984189                               3.3       9.6       9.9     20.3        6.8
1.4       Indonesia's fertilizer c3nsumption is characterized by heavy
reliance on nitrogenous fertilizers--mosuly urea--for rice cultivation. But
the share of urea has fallen in recent years, from about 65 percent in 1975 to
about 52 percen. in 1989, as urea dosages approached saturation and
application levels of TSP and potash rapidly increased. The share of Java in
total fertilizer consumption is about 75 percent of urea, 64 percent of TSP,
and about 86 percent of AS, but only about 28 percent of potash. which is
mostly used for plantation and commercial crops. The importance of fertilizer
supplies to the foodcrop sector is reflected by the share of fertilizer
consumed in foodcrop production in recent years--about 95 percent of urea and
TSP, but only about 15 percent of potash. The rapid growth in fertilizer
consumption and the present high levels of application are due to high
fertilizer subsidies resulting in favorable farmgate fertilizer prices
relative to paddy support prices. Until the mid-1970s, Indonesia depended for
fertilizer supplies nearly entirely on imports--except for a small
contribution from PUSRI I commissioned in 1963. Since the 1970s, substantial
capacities--totaling about 6.8 million tpy--have been added, mostly for urea.
As a result, Indonesia now meets its entire domestic urea requirements and is
a major exporter of urea. However, all the potash and increasing requirements
of TSP will continue to be imported, since Indonesia does not possess the r'w
material base for their competitive production.
1.5       Most of the increase in fertilizer consumption took place from 1975
onward. The growth rate in consumption during the last five years has only
been 3.3 percent for urea, 9.6 percent for TSP, 9.9 percent for AS, and
20.3 percent for muriate of potash (KC1). Various studies have estimated that
to maintain rice self-sufficiency, rice production in Indonesia will have to
increase annually b- about 2.5 percent. However, the present levels of
fertilizer application are already high for the varieties of paddy seeds now
available, as reflected in the declining growth rate of urea consumption. The
required increase in rice production cannot, therefore, be achieved mainly



- 3 -
through increased fertilizer application. Urea consumption growth rates can,
therefore, be expected to remain at somewhat low levels.  TSP and KC1 conrucip-
tion growth will be higher than the growth in urea consumption. The lneasures,
now being considered by the Government, to improve fertilizer application
efficiency would also reduce the need for additional fertilizers for ach1Ueving
the same production targets. These measures include the use of urea
briquettes placed appropriately below the soil, more selective use of AS and
potash, and use of partially acidulated phosphate rock where appropriate.
Based on these considerations, the fertilizer ccnsumption projections in this
report reflect growth rates of 3.5 percent, 6.5 percent, 7.5 percent, and
7.5 percent, respectively, for urea, TSP, AS, and potash for the Repelita V
period and 3.0 percent, 6.0 percent, 7.0 percent, and 7.0 percent,
respectively, for the Repelita VI period. As seen in Table 1.2 below and in
Annex 2-2 these projections are somewhat lower than those prepared by MOA and
MOI, but are judged to be more appropriate for capacity planning purposes.
Table 1.2: INDONESIA - PROJECTED FERTILIZER CONSUMPTION
(thousand tons of product)
Year                                Urea        TSP       AS       KCI       Total
1988 (actual)                       2,930      1,219      585       496      5,230
1989 (est.)                         3,065      1,514      ¢53       635      5,867
A. Second National Fertilizer Study - Revision (ii)
1995                                5,132      2,366    1,095       664      9,257
B. Ministry of Industry
1994/95                             4,913      2,342    1,067      N.A.       N.A.
1999/2000                           6,422      2,989    1,670      N.A.      N.A.
C.  World Bank Estimate
1995                                3,770     2,210    1,010        980      7,970
2000                                4,370      2,960    1,450    1,410    10,190
N.A.: Not available.
1.6       Except in the case of urea, the domestic production of fertilizer
will be short of requirements. Some AS capacity may become available as a
coproduct, should Indonesia proceed with a caprolactam plant. The additional
requirements of fertilizer products other than urea will be met through
imports. According to the estimates contained in Annex 2-9 if all the
investment programs now under consideration are implemented as scheduled, the
projected urea production will be about 6.4 million tpy by 1995. The
requirement of urea for industrial purposes--mainly for the productior ;c
resins for the plywood industry--will be about another 0.3 million tr.
1995.  The planned capacities for additional urea production will, t--.       <e



- 4 -
be adequate to meet the projected domestic requirements and to maintain a
significant Indonesian presence in the international urea trade.
Disttibution and Marketing
1.7       Since 1979 the Government entrusted to PUSRI the total responsibi-
lit,ie, for dListlibuting and morketing all types of fertilizers--both domes-
tically produced and imported. During the past ten years, PUSRI has mobilized
and arranged for an impressive infrastructure to fulfill that responsibility;
its marketing unit works as an independent cost center. To support its
fertilizer marketing operations, PUSRI maintains a central marketing office in
Jakarta, regional marketing offices in each of the 25 provinces, six ferti-
lizer baggIng units, and 92 fertilizer warehouses located throughout the
country. Tbe company owns such transport facilities as railway wagons,
fertilizer vessels, and one ammonia tanker. In addition, the company hires
and uses similar facilities owned by such other agencies as the state and
private railways. Three of the fertilizer bulk carriers and one of the
bagging plants now being used by PUSRI are privately owned. PUSRI also uses
the large fleet of trucks owned and operated in the private sector for
fertilizer movement. Increasingly, the additional fertilizer warehousing
facilities required are being obtained through hiring of privately owned
storage facilities.
1.8       The flow of fertilizer products in the present marketing system is
shown in Annex 2-3. PUSRI obtains its fertilizer supplies either from the
domestic producers or through imports (Line I). For each agricultural season,
starting from October, the MOA estimates the fertilizer requirements of its
planned agricultural program. Taking into account expected domestic
production, imports are planned, as appropriate, through the Ministry of
Trade. The imported fertilizers are taken over by PUSRI at the erntry port.
The annual strategy to minimize distribution costs is developed by PUSRI and
discussed with all concerned. Based on the agreed plans, an amount of the
domestic production is reserved for domestic use.  The producers are then free                 -
to export their extra production at international prices. PUSRI transports
the products from the plants or the importing ports (Line I) to bulk
terminals/ports at the provincial level (Line II). The bulk material is
bagged and then shipped to inland supply warehouses at the district levels
(Line III). Fertilizers are sold from these warehouses to the dealers, who
market them to the final consumers (Line IV). In the past the dealers could
be government institutions, cooperatives, or private agencies; ho.'ever, in
1988 the Government decided that the marketing of fertilizers to the farmers
in rural areas would be done only through the village cooperative units, known
as Koperasi Unit Desa (KUDs). At present, except for sales to plantations,
which can still be made through government institutions and private dealers,
all retail marketing of fertilizers is through the KUDs. As a result, the
share of KUDs in the marketing of fertilizers has increased substantially--
from 13 percent in 1'84/85 to 64 percent in 1988189. Thers are concerns that
this restraint of compecition has caused efficiency losses. A Fertilizer
Marketing and Distribution Study, to be supported under the Project, will
evaluate the scope for efficiency improvements in a competitive environment
and recommend an action plan to implement such improvements.



-5-
Fertilizer Pricing
1.9       Fertilizer prices at the farmgate and ex-factory levels are set by
the Government.  The differentiul from this two-level price setting is funded
by the Government in the form of a budgetary fertilizer subsidy. In general,
farmgate fertilizer prices are set annually from October 1 of each year,
keeping in view the need to promote adequate Fertilizer application, to ensure
that the levels of farm incomes are not unduly eroded, and to maintain rice
self-sufficiency. Fertilizer is sold to farmers throughout the country at the
same price; the extra cost of delivery to remote locations is borne as a
subsidy by the Government. Until October 1988, all the fertilizer products--
u.ea, ?SP, AS, and KCl, were sold at the same product price irrespective of
nutrient content and farm economics. From October 1988, the Government has
started to change this situation. At present, delivered prices of TSP and KC1
(Rp 260 per kg) are somewhat higher thar. the prices of urea and AS (Rp 210 per
kg). Also, since the fertilizer pricing (and subsidy) system covers only the
four major single nutrient products (urea, TSP, AS, and KCl), manufacturers
are reluctant to diversify and provide the farmers with a wider range of non-
subsidized products, that would have to be sold at higher market prices.
1.10      Ex-factory fertilizer prices are set annually by the government,
taking into account the actual costs for the two previous years and the indi-
vidual fertilizer enterprise's budget for the coming year. The pricing
proposals, prepared by the enterprises as part of their annual budget process,
are reviewed by an interministerial committe--MOA, MOI, Ministry of Finance
(MOF) and EKUIN--and become applicable from January 1. The ex-factory prices
provide for depreciation and interest charges but do not include a provision
for return on -quity.  The rpoducers, subject to fulfilling certain
performance targets, are entitled to a profit of Rp 5,000 per ton of product
irrespective of the capital employed.
1.11      Natural gas, the major input for all the urea plants, is priced
uniformly at $1.0 per million British thermal unit (MMBtu), thus indirectly
subsidizing urea production at some locations. The breakdown of the present
ex-lactory fertilizer prices is presented in Annex 2-4 for urea and Annex 2-5
for TSP and AS. In the case of urea, the production costs (excluding
depreciation and interest) range from Rp 92,026/ per ton for Kujang to
Rp 100,375/ per ton for Kaltim. The higher production costs at Kaltim are
mainly due to the higher energy consumption of Kaltim I, a situation being
addressed under the proposed Projoct's Optimization Component. The capital-
related costs of Kaltim and PIM are higher due to their recent plant vintages.
1.12      The fertilizer is delivered by the producers to PUSRI against
letters of credit. The producers are paid against despatch an amount equal to
the distribution costs allowed to PUSRI for supplies from the particular
producer. The producer issues claims on the Government for the difference
between the agreed ex-factory price and the payment already received from
PUSRI. In the case of Kujang, there is a negative receipt from the
Government. In the case of PUSRI, about 80 percent of the ex-factory price
of urea is received against despatches. In the case of PI'i and Kaltim, the
receipts against despatches amount to about 70 percent of the production costs
of bulk urea, excluding capital-related costs. Gresik, however, receives only
40 percent of the production costs (excluding capital related costs) for TSP
and 64 percent for AS against despatch. Gresik thus faces a cash crtunch if



there are delays in the receint of the Government's share of the ex-factory
price. The Government has recently assured the PFEs that these payments will
be made within 90 days and that, in case of defaults, the companies will be
reimbursed interest charges.
1.13      Fertilizer Subsidy.  As mentioned above, fertilizers are delivered
to the farmers at prices well below costs. The difference between the cost of
delivering thr fertilizers to the farmers and the price realized through sales
is borne by the Government as a budgetary subsidy. With the growth in the
agricultural program, the increase in fertilizer consumption and the higher
fertilizer prices, the size of the fertilizer subsidv has been steadily
increasing, from Rp 219 billion in 1981 to an estimated Rp 721 billion in
1989. In 1988(89 subsidies on agro-inputs other than fertilizer, like those
on pesticides, have been eliminated.
1.14      The actual budgetary fertilizer subsidy for any particular year has
to be adjusted for carrying forward some expenses from other years, interest
charges and taxes. For purposes of evaluating the impact of various policy
options on the fertilizer subsidy, the subsidy accruing within anv particular
year has been estimated exclusive of the above adjustments. Details of such
estimates for 1988, 1989, and 1990 are contained in Annex 2-6, Annex 2-7 and
Annex 2-8 and are summarized in Table 1.3 below. The 1988 estimates are based
on actual sales and costs. The 1989 estimates are based on actual sales up to
August 1989 and on projections for the rest of the year. The 1990 estimates
are based on i989/90 fertilizer sales, as projected by the MOA and at the
present price levels. The fertilizer economic subsidy has been split into
"production" and "farmgate" subsidies using economic delivered costs based on
border prices. In the case of urea, where Indonesia is competitively placed
for exports, the border price is the export-parity price. In the case of TSP,
AS, and KCI, for which Indonesia is not a competitive producer, the border
price is the landed cost.
1.15      Table 1.3 indicates that the Indonesian urea producers -re
internationally competitive and are being paid ex-factory prices well below
export prices. For TSP and AS, domestic competitiveness is very sensitive to
international relative prices of fertilizer products, raw materials, and
intermediates. The competitiveness of AS production is also partly affected
by the high-cost of fuel oil-based ammonia produced to enable operation of one
of Gresik's AS plants. The economic production cost of TSP tends to be mar-
ginally higher or lower than the landed cost depending on the prevailing
international prices.
Fertilizer Production
1.16      Fertilizer production in Indonesia started with the commissioning of
PUSRI I in 1963, with an installed capacity of 100,000 tpy of urea. By 1989
the fertilizer capacity had reached a total of 6.870 million tpy. The
capacities of the existing plants and those being planned are summarized in
Annex 2-9. At present, domestic fertilizer production meets the entire
requirements of urea and AS, and most of the requirements of TSP. Indonesia
is now an exporter of ammonia (0.24 million tons in 1987) and of urea (1.04
million tons in 1988). The recent exports of ammonia and urea, and the major
importers of Indonesian urea, are given in Annex 2-10.



Table 1.3: ESTIMATED FERTILIZER ECONOMIC SUBSIDIES
(Rp billion)
Urea          TSP        AS          KC1         Total
A. 1988
Delivered cost           646         464         161         152       1,422
Sale realization         418         177          84         80          759
Subsidy
Total (Budgetary)      228         287          77         72          664
Production           (314)          14          53         __        (247)
FaLmgate               542         273          24         72          911
B. 1989 (est.)
Delivered cost           702         684         188         171       1,745
Sale realization         518         285         110         111       1,024
Subsidy
Total (Budgetary)      184         399          78         60          721
Production           (364)          53          51         __        (260)
Farmgate               548         346          27         60          981
C. 1990 (est.)
Delivered cost           811         620         195         169       1,795
Sale realization         665         294         125        133        1,217
Subsidy
Total (Budgetary)      146         326          70         36          578
Production           (436)          54          53         --        (329)
Farmgate               582         272          17         36          907
1.17      Most of the recent additions to fertilizer produttion capacity have
been for urea, based on the abundant natural Pas resources of Indonesia. The
only domestic plant (at Gresik) for the production of TSP and AS relies on
imports of sulfur, rock phosphate, and phosphoric acid. All the potash
requirements are met by imports. Annex 2-9 and Annex 2-11 contain details
about domestic fertilizer production capacity and output.
1.18      The fertilizer plants in Indonesia have, in Sr-'eral, stabilized
production at high levels soon after commissioning. Many of them have also
carried out optimization investments to improve plant reliability and stream
efficiency. For example, such investments in Kujang have enabled it to be one
of the best-run plants in the world. Similarly, optimization investments on
Kaltim I, which had encountered serious initial commissioning and operation
problems, have enabled the plant to stabilize its operations. The overall
good performance of the Indonesian fertilizer plants is reflected by their
high capacity utilization, as seen in Table 1.4 below for the year 1989.



-8-
Table 1.4: FERTILIZER PRODUCTION CAPACITY AND OUTPUT IN 1989
Capacity
Plants                       Capacity           Output            Utilization
--- (thousand tons) ----              (percent)
Urea
PUSRI II, III, & t!          1,520              1,445                95
Kujang                         570                542                95
ASEAN Aceh                     650                618                95
Kaltim I, II, & III          1,710              1,454                85
Iskandar Muda                  570                542                95
Total Urea                 5,020              4,601                92
TSP
Gresik I & II                1,200              1,200               100
AS
Gresik I, II & III             650                650               100
Investment Program
1.19      The Government's 1990-95 investment program in the fertilizer sector
includes both investments for new capacity and for performance improvements,                 ;
following the recommendations of the Fertilizer Industry Sector Report,
prepared by the Bank in 1988. The estimated total cost of this program is
about $1.0 billion. Three projects for capacity additions have been
prioritized and are in advanced stages of planning. These include the
PUSRI Ib project, which will add a 1,350 tpd capacity ammonia plant and a
1,750 tpd capacity urea plant to the PUSRI facilities at Palembang. The
surplus ammonia will be converted to urea in the optimized PUSRI II urea
plant, to be funded under the proposed Project. The contracting arrangements
for the PUSRI Ib facilities and the financing arrangements have been
finalized.  The second large capacity addition will be the Gresik ammonia/urea
complex proposed for financing under the Project. Kujang has been authorized
by the Government to finalize arrangements with a private partner for a Kujang
II ammonia/urea project, with majority private financing. This project will
add 570,000 tpy of urea capacity, half of which will be reserved for exports.
A fourth company, Iskandar Muda is also considering expansion with a private
partner. As a result of energy audits and feasibility studies, optimization
investments will be undertaken in several plants and supported under the
proposed Project.  These investments will aim for, inter alia, energy savings,
increased capacity, upgrading of technology, amelioration of industrial
pollution, and safety. The impact of the above investments will be to
increase urea capacity in Indonesia to 6.9 million tpy, which will make
available about 4.4 million tpy of urea to meet domestic requirements up to
the year 2000. No addition to TSP capacity is being planned, beyond
optimization investments, since the economic viability of domestic production



from new investments has not been established. No additional direct capacity
for AS production is planned.
B. The Policy Framework
1.20      The successful development of the Indonesia fertilizer industry has
been associated with: (a) controlled and heavily subsidized fertilizer prices
at the farmgate (the economic subsidy is forecast at about $317.0 million for
1990), which have promoted intensive and possibly inefficient use; (b) natural
gas and ex-factory fertilizer prices that differ from economic prices and have
resulted in production inefficiencies (for TSP and AS) and inappropriately low
returns to equity; (c) regulations on product distribution and marketing that
have constrained competition and efficiency; and (d) inadequate assessment and
monitoring of the environmental impact of '.ertilizer production.
1.21      The Government is aware of the impact of the above existing
distortions on its budget and on the overall economic efficiency of the
fertilizer industry. As it has demonstrated its determination to deal with
similar problems by undertaking substantive deregulations in trade, industry,
and the financial sector, the Government has also decided to redress the above
distortions. In May 1990, the Government issued a new deregulation package
which covers reduced import restrictions on fertilizer but introduced a
marginal increase in tariffs coupled with temporary surcharges to offset the
elimination of some import restrictions and assist producers to adjust to the
new regulations. These measures will mainly affect imports of TSP and potash.
During the past two years, the Government has raised AS prices at the farmgate
to their economic level, and has made some upward adjustments in the farmgate
prices of urea and TSP, the prices of which are still about 47 percent and
33 percent lower, respectively, than their economic levels. Because of the
concern to maintain rice production in line with domestic demand and to
protect farm incomes, the G(vernment intends to make the remaining fertilizer
farmgate price adjustments toward their economic level gradually, but within
the Repelita V period (1989/90-1993/94), as indicated in the Policy Statement
issued prior to negotiations. The Statement, which is satisfactory to the
Bank, is attached as Annex 1. In addition, the Government plans to:
(a) replace the cost-plus formula for setting ex-factory prices for fertilizer
by linking the ex-factory price of urea to its export parity and the ex-
factory prices of all other fertilizers to their import parities (these
adjustments will also be phased in during Repelita V, together with the
adoption of an appropriate dividend policy for fertilizer enterprises;
(b) establish the price of natural gas to the fertilizer industry between a
floor corresponding to the economic cost of the resource and a ceiling
corresponding to its netback value, and eliminate economically unjustified
price differentials among natural gas users; (c) open up the marketing and
distribution system to wholesalers and retailers to foster competition,
improve efficiency, and provide better service to farmers on the basis of a
study to quantify efficiency improvements and to recommend an action plan; and
(d) prepare an environmental management and monitoring plan for the fertilizer
industry, on the basis of a study of the current and projected environmental
impacts and of environmental standards and targets.



- 10 -
C. The Sector and the Natural Environment
1.22      Since 1986, in accordance with Indonesian laws and regulations,
sponsors of major industrial projects, such as those proposed under the
Project, must prepare environmental impact analyses. The policies,
regulations and review procedures of environmental matters in Indonesia are
the responsibility of the Ministry of Population and the Environment (KLH),
which is not a line ministry but advises operating ministries, for example
MOI. Thus, all activities supported by the project will be in accordance with
environmental guidelines stipulated by KLH and executed by MOI.11 The
environmental review procedures covering the Gresik Restructuring Component
and the Optimization Component of the proposed Project consist of the
following steps. A Preliminary Environmental Evaluation Report (PEL) for the
proposed activity is submitted by the sponsor to the Environmental Planning
Commission, either at the central government level or at the provincial
government level, depending on the size of the project. Terms of reference,
outlining the scope and procedure for conducting the project's Environmental
Evaluation Study (SEL) are then drawn up by the sponsor and approved by the
Environmental Planning Commission. The completed study is submitted for
approval to the Commission along with an environmental management plan (RKL)
and an environmental monitoring plan (RPL). Under the Gresik Restructuring
Component, a SEL has been drawn up for the Gresik ammonia/urea plant and found
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.18). In the Optimization component, a
satisfactory environmental impact analysis would be a condition of the Bank's
approval of each subproject.
1.23      Sites and Activities.  The Indonesian fertilizer industry consists
of two groups. First, there are the ten ammonia/urea plants--including the
ASEAN plant at Aceh--, in five locations, with three additional plants under
construction or planning, to be added over the next 5-10 years. Second, there
is the large TSP and AS complex at Gresik, near Surabaya. The fertilizer
plants in Indonesia have adopted the latest proven technologies available when
they were built, taking into account both technological advancements and
environmental requirements. The Government, at both central and provincial
levels, and plant management are also increasingly becoming aware of the need
to minimize adverse environmental impacts from industrial plants. There are,
however, still inadequacies in standards, monitoring, and management.
Provisions are included under the Project to assist the Government and the
fertilizer industry to remove these inadequacies.
1.24      Ammonia/Urea Plants.  The two major effluent streams in these plants
are the liquid effluent stream, which contains ammonia and urea, and the
gaseous effluent from the urea prilling tower, which contains urea dust.  Most
plants built before 1985 adopted bag filters for the urea prilling tower
exhaust, which are not as effective in urea dust removal as technologies
developed later. The more recent plants use scrubbers for more complete
removal combined with hydrolyzers to decompose the urea to ammonium and then
to recover the ammonia. Whereas the earlier vintage plants have liquid
l/   In June 1990, a presidential decision formed an Environmental Impact
Control Board as part of KLH. The Board will serve to further strengthen
eavironmental impact analysis, pollution control standards, monitoring
and enforcement.



- 11 -
effluent streams containing about 200-450 parts per million (ppm) cf ammonia.
the more recent urea technologies reduce the ammonia content in the liquid
effluents to below 5 ppm through the use of hydrolyzer-strippers.
1.25      The industry has already made some progress in pollution control.
Water treatment designs have been changed to eliminate the use of chromium,
and some plants have adopted energy-saving schemes to reduce use of natural
gas. New technology is being adopted to reduce ammonia effluents, although at
a slow pace for existing units. All new plants are being designed with state-
of-the-art technology that will lower ammonia effluents to under 5 ppm.
Kaltim II & III, built after 1985, have achieved such levels, and the company
is also considering installing a hydrolyzer-stripper plant for Kaltim I to
reduce its effluent to under 5 ppm. The environmental analysis carried ovt
for the Kujang II plant has proposed the setting up of facilities at Kujang to
degrade the effluent biologically, converting the ammonia into nitrogen, also
to under 5 ppm. The 5 ppm standard is an achievable and desirable standard
for ammonia effluent. The MOI and KLH are currently reviewing the standards
for the nitrogen industry. The proposed industry-wide environmental study to
be implemented under the Project will assist the government in developing
appropriate standards and management systems to ensure compliance on a
sustained basis. A reasonable approach would be to impose a strict (but
technically achievable) standard for new construction--i.e., 5 ppm maximum--
for ammonia, and to give existing industry a reasonable time to reach similar
standards, taking into account technology and overall contribution to effluent
levels.
1.26      Safety is an important part of industrial operations in the
fertilizer industry, particularly in ammonia plants. Each company has a well-
established safety department that reviews safety programs and manages a
safety awareness pregram. It is common practice internationally to design
fertilizer factories with safety in mind, and this was the case with all such
plants in Indonesia. The safety program is fully supported by the MOI and the
emphasis on safety has paid off. For example, the two oldest facilities,
PUSRI and Gresik, have never had a work-related fatality, and both have
operated for over three years without a lost-time accident.
1.27      The industry also maintains a good record with regard to social
programs. Most facilities were installed in remote, unpopulated areas and
needed a comprehensive program of housing, health, schools, and other urban
infrastructure to attract and keep staff. In two locations, (Palembang and
Gresik), nearby urban-industrial development has increased sufficiently to
make the companies consider urban development in their corporate planning.
This issue is being addressed in the environmental assessment programs of the
Project. There have been no reported problems with regard to resettlements or
local claims. Several factories were built on agricultural land but the
improved productivity resulting from increased fertilizer availability more
than offsets this loss.
1.28      With regard to fertilizer use, inadequate attention has been given
to any adverse environmental impact. The emphasis has been on increasing
supply at a uniform low price to ensure rice self-sufficiency. Although no
serious environmental issue has emerged, there is some concern that subsidized
fertilizer prices may lead to overuse, resulting in ground water contamina-
tion, and that the right type and specification for fertilizers are not being



- 12 -
used. Some decisions have already been taken that have a positive environ-
mental effect: (a) nitrates are not used; (b) production is moving closer to
consumption; (c) phosphate specification changes are being considered; (d) use
of urea briquettes is being tried; and, perhaps most important, (e) the
fertilizer pricing subsidy is being phased out.
1.29      From an environmental viewpoint, the fertilizer sector is in
transition. While overall performance is good, there is a need to develop a
comprehensive planning system to ensure that minimal environmental impact is
achieved. To support this objective, the Project will provide support to
environmental impact analyses and appropriate action plans for each of the
PFEs and to a sector-wide environmental study that will develop an
environmental management program for the sector, to be monitored by the
Government.
II. THE BANK'S PAST LENDING, STRATEGY, AND RATIONALE
FOR INVOLVEMENT IN THE SECTOR
A. The Bank's Past Lending in the Fertilizer Sector
2.1       Bank involvement in the Indonesia fertilizer sector began in 1970.
Since then, two credits and four loans have been completed, and another loan
is being implemented for a total amount of $375.0 million (Table 2.1). During
1970-76 the Bank made four credits/loans, all to PUSRI, that enabled this
company to expand urea production to 1.4 million tpy by 1979. These
operations concentrated on expanding capacity, on ensuring gas supplies to the
plants, and on improving overall management capability in the areas of project
design and implementation, procurement, finance, and marketing. Although the
approach was largely project-specific, it resulted in Indonesia developing
competent management capability that enabled the industry to evolve
successfully. Many of the early PUSRI staff are now successful senior
managers scattered throughout the industry and the Government.
2.2       In the mid-1970s, serious constraints began to appear in the
distribution network, given that most of the production was concentrated in
one location (PUSRI, Palembang) and consumption mostly in Java, and that other
islands needed supply. The Government then decided to expand production at
other locations and to improve the distribution system. During 1975-85, the
Bank assisted in upgrading the fertilizer distribution system through two
operations designed to improve the physical infrastructure, including
maritime, rail, and road systems, plus storage and bagging facilties. With
Bank support, Indonesia took a lead in promoting bulk transport .f fertilizer
in developing countries. At present, about 75 percent of output is
transported in bulk, up to the retail level. These operations were also
directed at improving management of the marketing system, which is also under
PUSRI's responsibility.  During this period, other expansions of supply took
place without Bank assistance.  Both groups of Bank-supported operations were
highly successful. Fertilizer consumption and production increased fourfold
and eightfold, respectively, during 1970-85. PUSRI is widely recognized as a
world leader in fertilizer production. Distribution efficiency has improved,
including the ability to handle the larger volumes produced. Today, Indonesia
is a competitive producer and exporter of nitrogen fertilizer.



- 13 -
Table 2.1: SAN OPERATIONS AND EVALUATIONS OF PROJECT PERFORMANCE
IN THE FERTILIZER SECTOR
Approval   Credit/Loan   Amount
Project                                date        No.      (8 million)    Status
Production
Fertilizer Plant Expansion
and Can Conservation              6/16/70     C-193-1         a0.0    Completed
Fertilizer Supplementary            6/21/73    C-193-2          5.0    Completed
Third Fertilizer Expansion          2/20/74    L-1009          116.0    Completed
Fourth Fertilizer Expansion         6/20/76    L-1264           79.0    Completed
Distribution
Fertilizer Distribution             7/10/76    L-1189           68.0    Completed
National Fertilizer Distribution    4/05/92    L-2120           66.0    Completed
Industrial Energy Conservation      11/09/87     L-2879          21.0    Ongoing
Total                                                       876.0
Sustainabilitv of Prolects - Review of Experience in the
Fertilizer Subsector; Report No. 6078, Operation Evaluation
Department, February 26, 1986
Indonesil - Fertilizer Industry Sector Report; Report No. 7184-IND,
February 18, 1988.
Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs)
No. 1948 Credits 193-1/-2
No. 6419 Loans 1089-IND; and 1264-IND
No. 4256 Loan 1139-IND
Prolect Completion Reports (PCRs)
No. 7861 Loan 2120-IND
2.3       By the mid-1980s, several problems developed in the sector that
needed urgent attention and required a broader sectoral perspective:
(a) increasing subsidies due to price controls; (b) industrial efficiency
lagging behind international standards, also in part because of price
contrals; and (c) some economically unjustified investment decisions. During
1985-88, the Bank undertook two activities to assist the Government in
resolving these issues: an Industrial Energy Conservation Project and a
Fertilizer Sector Strategy Study. The Industrial Energy Conservation Project
(Loan 2879-IND), currently under satisfactory implementation, concentrates on
optimizing energy consumption, the key variable in urea production, within
existing fertilizer plants at PUSRI. This project is enabling PUSRI to
upgrade for energy savings arnd increased output and profitability. It has
also helped establish an Industrial Energy Conservation Center (Koneba) to
build up expertise in energy efficiency in the fertilizer and other sectors.
2.4       The Fertilizer Sector Strategy Study prepared during 1987/88 was
designed primarily to assist the Government to develop a strategy for removing
price distortions and reducing subsidies, and to prepare a viable investment
program. This work too has been very successful. Through discussions of the
sector report and project preparation activities, the Government has developed
a good understanding both of the adverse effects of price controls and



- 14 -
subsidies and of the investment priorities. As a result, it has adopted an
investment strategy (para. 1.19) and has moved towards a comprehensive policy
reform program (para. 1.21) that should enable the sector to maintain and
enhance its internationally competitive position. During Project preparation
two other areas of concern for the fertilizer industry emergeds its
environmental impact and the distribution and marketing efficiency. The
proposed Project provides for studies that will assist in the resolution of
the main issues in these areas.
2.5       Project Completion Reports (PCRs) and Project Performance Audit
Reports (PPARs) as well as the OED's Review of rxperience in the Fertilizer
Subsector Report, listed in Table 2.1, have attributed such favorable
performance of Bank-assisted operations to the following main elements:
(a) firm commitment by the Government and the fertilizer enterprises to attain
the projects' objectives; (b) presence of a competent, strong, and stable
management core at the fertilizer enterprises, assisted by capable technical
support for project implementation; (c) use of competent and highly
experienced licensors and engineering firms; (d) comprehensive arrangements to
facilitate procurement; and (e) provision of on-the-job training opportunities
for fertilizer enterprises' staff. The reports also noted, however, that
these operations focussed on the development of physical aspects of the
industry but did not attempt to address fertilizer policy issues. Experience
from Bank-financed fertilizer projects in other countries has identified other
lessons: (a) the choice of optimization investments should be based on both
economic considerations and expected improvements in operating costs, avoiding
optimistic implementation sc&edulee; (b) project activities should be
integrated with normal plant operations to ensure their timely execution;
(c) the effective transfer of technology and the skill upgrading of managerial
and technical staff should be assessed carefully. The above elements have
played a central part in the design of the proposed Project. In addition, a
key message from the implementation experience of Bank-supported fertilizer
optimization investments is that their complexity has put heavy demands in
terms of supervision. Therefore, the proposed Project supervision strategy
would be carefully planned to ensure the adequate allocation and effective
utilization of resources for this purpose.
B. The Bank's Strategy and Rationale for Involvement in the Sector
2.6       Bank strategy in the sector has evolved over the past two decades
from an emphasis on increasing supply, principally through financing selected
investments, to a broad, policy-based strategy to attain the sector
development objectives detailed in para. 1.21. The main rationale for Bank
involvement with the proposed Project is to ensure that the continuing
evolution of policy reforms is implemented in a consistent and timely fashion
to support the development of the fertilizer sector. The proposed Project
conforms well with this strategy by building upon an established policy
dialogue and assisting the Government to implement key policy reforms agreed
ujpon by the Government and the Bank (para. 1.21). Moreover, the proposed
Project will apply important lessons learned under previous Bank-assisted
activities. The main thrust of the proposed Project is on economic
efficiency, distribution and marketing improvements, and pollution abatement.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives and Description
3.1       The primary objectives of the proposed Project would be to:
(a) assist the Government in implementing significant sector reforms, already
initiated and reflected in the draft Government Statement of Policy, that will
sustain the continued development of the fertilizer sector on an economically
efficient and environmentally sound basis; (b) support an industry-wide
priority investment program; (c) identify the scope for improved efficiency in
marketing and distribution; and (d) assess the industry's environmental impact
and standards, and develop an environmental management program.
3.2       To achieve these objectives, the Project includes:  (a) a Gresik
Restructuring Component to provide financial assistance to P.T. Petrokimia
Gresik for the construction of a new ammonia/urea plant and for modernization
of Gresik's existing fertilizer plants; (b) an Optimization Component to
support investments in four participating fertilizer enterprises (PFEs)--
Iskandar Muda, Kaltim, Kujang and PUSRI--to realize energy savings, capacity
and productivity gains, and pollution control improvements; and (c) a Studies
Component to undertake analyses of the scope for improved efficiency in
fertilizer marketing and distribution and of the environmental impacts of the
fertilizer industry, including identification of long-term objectives for
environmental improvement and preparation of an environmental management
program to ensure that the industry meets appropriate standards.
B. The P.T. Petrokimia Gresik Restructuring Component
3.3       This component will comprise:  (a) building a new ammonia/urea plant
at Gresik, with a caDacity of 1,350 tpd of ammonia and 1,400 tpd of urea, to
provide low-cost ammonia to existing operations and to reduce urea
distribution costs in East Java, including provison of engineering services
and licenses therefor; (b) supporting modernization investments in Gresik's
existing fertilizer plants to increase output of phosphoric acid and improve
performance of the AS facilities and ameliorate environmental pollution.
Gresik's New Ammonia/Urea Plant ($305.4 million)
3.4       The new ammonia/urea plant to be built at Gresik will be based on
natural gas and have a capacity of 1,350 tpd of ammonia and 1,400 tpd of urea.
The Gresik complex already contains a range of plant facilities, mainly for
the production of TSP and AS. Half of the phosphoric acid--amounting to about
151,000 tpy, required for TSP production--is obtained from the company's own
facilities, and the rest is imported. The TSP facilities require imported
phosphate rock, phosphoric acid, and sulfur. The production of phosphoric
acid, by the sulfuric acid acidulation of rock phosphate, generates about
750,000 tpy of gypsum, which needs to be either utilized or disposed of. The
local pollution control requirements do not permit the discharge of gypsum
into the sea. About 335,000 tpy of the gypsum is utilized for the production
of cement retarder sold to Indonesian cement plants. The company exports
about 65,000 tpy of purified gypsum and uses the rest of the gypsum, about
350,000 tpy, for the production of AS. This AS plant also requires both
ammonia and carbon dioxide as raw materials. The company, therefore,



- 16 -
continues to operate a 72,000 tpy capacity, fuel-oil-based ammonia plant at
the minimum level to generate the carbon dioxide requirements of AS production
plus a small amount of carbon dioxide for industrial sales. The high cost of
this ammonia adversely affects the economics of AS production. Another
existing AS plant produces 400.000 tpy of AS by direct neutralization of
ammonia and sulfuric acid; the latter in turn is produced from imported
sulfur. The ammonia requirements for this plant are purchased from Kaltim.
3.5       The proposed new plant will use, to the extent possible, the utility
and infrastructure facilities already available in the complex. The company
has finalized a contract with two well-known ammonia and urea licensors, and
the plant will therefore be based on one of the proven, energy-efficient
technologies with environmental considerations consistent with present
international standards. The size of the plant is large enough to achieve
economies of scale, and at the same time is in the well-proven capacity range
to avoid undue technical risks. The plant will be located -within the existing
Gresik complex, and land has already been cleared for the purpose. The new
ammonia plant will allow the existing ammonia plant to be closed, replace
purchased ammonia, and maintain sales of industrial carbon dioxide.
3.6       Natural gas for the project will be provided by Perusahaan
Pertambangan Minyak dan Gas Bumi Negara (Pertamina) under a contract to be
signed with Gresik. The contract will provide for a normal daily supply of
48 million standard cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) with a maximum of 60 MMSCFD,
starting from 1993. The gas will have a gross calorific value not below 950
MMBtu per SCF and not above 1,200 MMBtu per SCF, and it will be delivered at
the plant site at a fixed price of $2.00 per MMBtu. This contractual gas
price is within the economic cost of supply, which has been tentatively
estimated by the Bank at $l.77-2.21/MBtu on the basis of the long run
marginal cost of supply, including risk and depletion premiums. The gas will
be delivered from the Pegerungan reserves of the Kangean Block--located across
Madura Island and north of Bali and developed by Atlantic Richfield Bali North
Inc. (ARBNI) and Britoil (Alpha) Ltd. (Britoil) along with Pertamina.
According to present indications, the above reserves total abctt 2,500 billion
standard cubic feet (BSCF) consisting of 2,300 BSCF proven and 200 BSCF
probable. The gas contractors intend to build an appropriately sized
pipeline--about 255 miles long, based on delivery of 180 MMSCFD to the PLN
Gresik thermal power plant, 60 MMSCFD to the Gresik ammonia/urea plant, and
about 90 MMSCFD for domestic and other industrial use in the Surabaya/Gresik
area. A feasibility report on the routing and sizing of the pipeline was
prepared by P.T. Bimantara, the Indonesian partner of the contractors. All
contractual arrangements are being finalized and the pipeline would be
completed in time for the commissioning of the ammonia/urea plant.
Modernization of Gresik's Existing Fertilizer Plants ($15.8 million)
3.7       Gresik produces about 1.2 million tpy of TSP, partly with its own
but mostly with imported phosphoric acid, and 650,000 tpy of AS. At present
the phosphoric acid plant, with an installed capacity of 171,400 tpy, produces
only about 151,000 tpy due to equipment problems. The company is already
changing some equipment to reduce production interruptions. It should be
possible to increase phosphoric acid producti3n further through modernization
of the facilities, including increased output of phosphoric acid and changing
product specifications in the TSP plant. To the extent additional phosphoric



- 17 -
acid can be produced, sulfuric acid that will be converted to AS will be
reduced. Feasibility studies will also assess utilization of waste calcium
carbonate in the adjacent cement factory and improvements in the performance
of the AS production facilities, including improved ammonia recovery and
minimizing ammonia and sulfur dioxide (SO2) discharges into tih environment.
To address the above issues Gresik, assisted by consultants and process
licensors, is evaluating an investment program which will be supported under
the proposed Project.
C. The Optimization Component ($122.2 million)
3.8       The Indonesian fertil'zer industry has an ongoing strategy to
modernize its facilities to current levels of proven technolcgy and to enhance
efficient operations to maintain an exportable nitrogen surplus and to
minimize costs of the local supply of fertilizers. A major part of that
optimization work is being supported under the Industrial Energy Conservation
Project, Loan 2879-IND. The Optimization Component of this proposed Project
will support the next phase of modernization of the sector, covering four
PFEs: Iskandar Muda, Kaltim, Kujang, and PUSRI. It will support investments
for energy and raw material efficiency, enhanced output, and improved
environmental performance of the plants. These investments are well defined
at this stage, but require additional detailed feasibility work prior to
implementation. All subprojects will be reviewed and approved by the Bank, on
the basis of their technical, managerial, financial and economic viability, as
well as on the assessment of their environmental impact.
3.9       P.T. Iskandar Muda Ammonia/Urea Optimization Subproject.   PIK
facilities in Aceh, North Sumatra, include a 1,000 tpd ammonia plant and a
1,725 tpd urea plant. The facilities were commissioned in 1984 and have been
operating consistently above rated capacities. The present energy consumption
is about 38 M4Btu per ton of ammonia, which indicates further scope for energy
savings through appropriate investments. An energy audit of the facilities
has been carried out by Koneba. PIM is also examining several product
diversification schemes, including industrial chemicals such as hydrogen
peroxide, and maintenance improvements. The various possibilities are being
put together by PIM in a feasibility study for inclusion within the Project.
3.10      Kaltim I Ammonia/Urea Optimization Subproject.  Kaltim operates
three ammonia/urea plants in Bontang, East Kalimantan. Kaltim II and III
operate extremely well. Kaltim I ammonia and urea plants were originally
designed as a ship-borne facility capable of being moved to different offshore
gas fields. This concept proved nonviable, however, and a decision was made
in 1975 to locate the plant on land at Bontang. Construction of the plant was
completed, and commissioning started, in 1983. Because of the long storage of
equipment under less than ideal conditions and inappropriate design specifica-
tions, the plants could not operate at rated capacities on a sustained basis.
A study by the original process designers, recommended a rehabilitation scheme
that was carried out in 1984-85. Following its implementation, stable
operations could be achieved, and in 1988 production factors of 88 percent for
ammonia and 82 percent for urea were achieved. Kaltim I is now reported to be
operating at an annual average capacity of over 90 percent, and running for
sustained periods above rated capacity. Ho-wever, the plant continues to have
problems. Some of the equipment is still unreliable, thereby affecting
sustained production. The energy consumption per ton of ammonia is 44 t4mBtu



- 18 -
per ton--indicating strong potential for achieving energy savings. There is
also scope for improving effluent quality.
3.11      on the basis of an energy audit carried out by Koneba, conceptual
studies undertaken by process engineering companies, and Kaltim's own
experience with the plants, the company has developed an optimization program
with fourfold objectives: to improve efficiency, to achieve better
reliability, to expand capacity, and to improve maintenance. The studies
indicate that the Kaltim I ammonia plant capacity can be increased by up to
20 percent, if the existing ammonia converter is replaced with a larger-
capacity modern, low-pressure, radial-type converter. The capacity of the
urea plant would be increased by about 10 percent. Kaltim I will utilize this
extra urea capacity to produce melamine, under a joint venture with a company
from The Netherlands.
3.12      Kuiang Ammonia Optimization Subproject.  Kujang facilities at
Ciampek in West Java consist of a 1,000 tpd ammonia plant and a 1,725 tpd urea
plant commissioned in 1979. From direct operating experience and following a
consultant study carried out in 1980, certain plant modifications have been
carried out. As a result, the plant produced 391,500 tpy of ammonia and
645,500 tpy of urea in 1986, corresponding to 119 percent and 113 percent,
respectively, of original rated capacity. The objectives of this optimization
subproject are to: (a) increase ammonia availability at Ciampek to support
product diversification schemes; (b) reduce energy consumption by about 2.67
MMBtu per ton of ammonia through energy-saving investments; (c) maintain plant
reliability after a decade of operations; and (d) decrease ammonia effluents
to a Fatisfactory level. After joint analysis by Kujang and Koneba, seven
energy conservation opportunities were identified and further studied by
Koneba in consultation with the various process owners. The present Kujang
optimization proposals are based on the March 1989 Koneba study. These
proposals were selected based on a gas price of $1.00 per MMBtu. Since the
economic value of natural gas at Kujang (located in Java) would be higher
(likely about $2.00 per MMBtu), Kujang is evaluating further modifications
that could be just.fied by the higher gas price. The subproject's scope will
be finalized on the basis of these studies.
3.13      PUSRI II Urea Optimization and Effluent Treatment Facility
Subproject.  PUSRI has four ammonia/urea plants at its production :acilities
in Palembang, South Sumatra. PUSRI II facilities consist of a 660 tpd ammonia
plant and a 1,150 tpd urea plant that have been in operation since 1974.  The
performance of these plants has been good, but serious problems have occurred
since 1983 because of deterioration of the titanium lining of the urea
reactor.  Its replacement is necessary for the continued operation of the
PUSRI II urea plant on a sustained basis.  PUSRI II has a urea prilling tower
of the same size as those in PUSRI III and IV, capable of processing up to                   -
1,725 tpd of urea. As a result of the optimization of the PUSRI II, III, and
IV ammonia plants--now being carried out under the Bank-financed Industrial
Energy Conservation P-oject (Loan 2879-IND)--the total ammonia output at PUSRI
will go up by about 315 tpd, with a reduction in energy consumption from an
average of 41.5 MMBtu per ton to 37.2 MMBtu per ton. Also, the decision to
build a larger 1,350 tpd ammonia plant as part of PUSRI Ib while building only
a 1,750 tpd urea plant will generate an additional ammonia surplus of 350 tpd.
Its location and the draft limitations at its jetty will make it difficult for
PUSRI to export the 220,000 tpy of ammonia surplus that will become available



- 19 -
when FUSRI Ib is commissioned. The PUSRI scheme is to convert part of the
surplus ammonia to urea by optimizing the PUSRI II urea plant, taking
advantage of the surplus carbon dioxile available from PUSRI Ib. The
additional urea will go mostly to the domestic market via coastal ships of
medium size.
3.14      PUSRI has invited proposals from international firms and has
evaluated alternative optimization options, taking into account not only
technical and economic features but also reliability and commercially proven
processes. The optimization subproject is now proposed to be based on the
MTC/TEC (Japan) Aces Process. The proposed modifications will include:
(a) replacement of the synthesis section--including the old titanium-lined
reactor; (b) additional high-pressure recycle-solution feed pumps;
(c) replacement of the carbon dioxide booster compressor and driver; (d) an
additional evaporator/coaidenser; and (e) modifications to the prilling
section, which will also alm to reduce air and water contamination. In
addition, PUSRI has prepared, assisted by consultants, an investment for
installation of a wastewater treatment plant, which would also be supported
under this subproject.
D.  The Studies Component ($900,000)
3.15      The proposed Project includes provision for undertaking studies to:
(a) identify the scope for improved efficiency in fertilizer marketing and
distribution; and (b) assess the environmental impact and standards of the
fertilizer industry, including identification of long-term objectives for
environmental improvement and preparation of an environmental management
program.
3.16      Stud) of Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution ($400,000).  There is
general consensus within Indonesia that the present system is performing
reasonably well, mainly becatse fertilizer is delivered to farmers at a set
price and on time. However, this system is characterized by PUSRI's monopoly
at the wholesale level and cooperatives' monopoly at the retail level (paras.
1.7 through 1.9). As a result, there is a lack of domestic competition that
has constrained improved efficiency and, coupled with high distribution costs
and controlled fertilizer prices has led to an increased budgetary and
economic subsidy. The proposed Project includes provisions for a study that
will identify means of improving fertilizer distribution and marketing
efficiency in a competitive environment. The study will comprise two parts.
The first, to be undertaken by PUSRI, will cover: (a) updating the data
contained in the 1986 Distribution and Marketing Study done by PUSRI;
(b) assessing the current distribution system for both local sales and
exports, in terms of ownership and operation costs; (c) preparing a ten-year
forecast of fertilizer supply and demand; and (d) evaluating the logistical
and physical changes required in the distribu-tion network over the next ten
years. The second part, to be undertaken by a team comprising primarily
foreign experts, will include: (a) identification of the existing marketing
inefficiencies and constraints; (b) a compa-ative analysis of the cost-
effectiveness of the Indonesian marketing b,stem with that in other countries
in the Asia Region; (c) an assessment of the impacts of changes in policy and
fertilizer use--product types and application prospects--on the marketing
system and on the natutal environment (para. 1.30); and (d) a recommended plan



- 20 -
of action to improve the competitiveness and efficiency of the fertilizer
marketing system. Detailed terms of reference are given in Annex 3-A.
3.17      Development of an Environmental Management Program for the
Fertilizer Industry ($500,000). The Government is committed to implement a
program of environmental i-provement within the coantry. A system of laws and
regulations has been adopted, but some key issues remain unresolved. For the
fertilizer industry: (a) inadequate standards and targets; (b) lack of an
environmental management program; (c) absence of an environmental monitoring
program and enforcement arrangements; and (d) lack of a priority investment
program to meet the proper standards and targets. To assist in the resolution
of these issues, provisions have been incorporated under the Project to
undertake a study, to be done by a team composed of local and foreign
consultants, with the following main objectives: (a) to assess Indonesian
environmental standards for the industry and recommend changes, including a
target-based, phased implementation program of compliance; (b) to assess the
environmental impact of current and planned fertilizer production facilities,
including safety performance, and to recommend measures to bring these into
compliance with the revised targets and standards; (c) to recommend an
investment program to accomplish (b) above; (d) to develop an environmental
management program for the industry; and (e) to assess environmental
monitoring and enforcement practices and recommend specific improvements.
Detailed terms of reference are in given Annex 3-B.
E. Project Organization and Implementation
Policy-related Actions
3.18      Overall, the proposed Project will be implemented in accordance with
the principles stated in the Government Statement of Policy, as detailed in
para. 1.21 and in Annex 1. An assurance to this effect was obtained during
negotiations. During negotiations, the following understandings were reached:
Ca) that the revised farmgate fettilizer prices for 1991 adopted by the
Government, as agreed during the exchange of views on these prices in
September 1990, between the Government and the Bank, represent a satisfactory
progress in bringing these prices ultimately to their economic levels;
(b) that the Government will, by October 1 of each year, commencing not later
than October 1, 1991, review the farmgate and ex-factory prices of
fertilizers, exchange views with the Bank on the results of the review, and
thereafter, if required, revise such prices taking into account the principles
set forth in the Statement; and (c) that actions will be taken during
Repelita V (1993-94) to bring the prices of fertilizer products gradually to
their economic level and eliminate the associated subsidy payments from the
Government's budget.
The Gresik Restructuring Component
3.19      The New Ammonia/Urea Plant will be built by Gresik within the
boundaries of its existing complex. The plant will be constructed through a
fixed-price turnkey contract, based on commercially proven and energy
efficient technology. Gresik will be responsible for overall project
coordination and for the supply of utilities. A local firm, P.T. Inti Karya
Persada Tehnik (IKPT) has been appointed as General Contractor. IKPT was
selected by Gresik, in consultation with MOI, after reviewing IKPT's extensive



- 21 -
experience in industrial design and plant construction, which includes one
large ammonia/urea plant. The provision of the ammonia and urea facilities
has been contracted from internationally experienced licensors, following
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. In August 1989, Gresik,
with prior agreement of the Bank, prequalified six firms (three for ammonia
and three for urea) and prepared the invitation to bid and draft contracts.
All these documents have been reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank.
Bids were opened on February 28, 1990. The prequalified engin.jering/licensor
firms submitted proposals covering basic engineering and technology, offshore
equipment and materials supply, supervision of implementation and
commissioning, and operational performance guarantees, all under a subcontract
with IKPT. IKPT submitted a bid for onshore equipment and materials supply,
detailed engineering, project management and procurement, and erection
services. Gresik will be responsible for overall management and supervision,
land preparation, and supply of selected equipment (i.e., water cooling tower,
water demineralization plant, electric substations and other equipment) based
on licensors' specifications. Gresik completed the bid evaluation on June 5,
1990, and proposed to award the contract to the lowest evaluated bids: Kellog
Overseas Corporation (USA) as the ammonia licensor, and Toyo Engineering
Corporation (Japan) as the urea licensor. The Bank reviewed the bid
evaluation report and provided a no-objection for Gresik to proceed with
contract negotiations with IKPT and the two licensors. The contract,
satisfactory to the Bank, was signed on September 7, 1990.
3.20      Construction of the ammonia/urea plant started on October 4, 1990,
and would take 36 months to complete, including 3 months for commissioning.
The Government has indicated to the Bank that construction of the gas pipeline
that will supply natural gas to the plant will have started by January 1,
1991, and that it is scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1993, which is
satisfactory. It would be a condition of disbursement for the Gresik
Restructuring Component that a contract for the provision of the required
natural gas to Gresik has been executed on behalf of Gresik and PERTAMINA and
found satisfactory to the Bank.
3.21      Modernization of Gresik's Existing Fertilizer Plants will be the
responsibility of Gresik. For these investments, Gresik will prepare an
appraisal report and an environmental impact analysis, which will be submitted
to the Bank for review and approval. Gresik, assisted by foreign consultants,
is currently preparing these documents, which are expected to be completed not
later than June 30, 1992. For implementation purposes, Gresik will set up a
project management team and will be using the services of local contractors,
foreign licensors and engineering firms, as required.
3.22      For purposes of project implementation, Gresik will require the
assistance of highly qualified engineering services. These services would be
provided by fertilizer engineering experts, for a period of about three years,
to be financed under the loan. .hese experts will be internationally
recruited in accordance with Bai.k guidelines. The terms of reference for the
consultants, to be appointed not later than May 1, 1991, were agreed during
negotiations. Gresik will set up a project management team composed of its
own experienced staff and supplemented by staff to be hired from other
domestic fertilizer enterprises, as required.



- 22 -
The Optimization Component
3.23      The implementation of this component will be the responsibility of
each of the four PFEs concerned with these investments. Three enterprises,
Kaltim, Kujang, and PUSRI, have prepared preliminary proposals that were
reviewed during appraisal. Detailed feasibility studies are under way and are
expected to be completed by March 1991. PIM has started to develop a
proposal, assisted by Koneba, which would also be fully appraised by March
1991. In addition, each PFE will prepare an environmental impact assessment
of these investments. Appraisal reports and environmental assessments will be
submitted to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1992, for review and approval.
These investments are expected to be implemented during a period ranging from
1 to 3 years. PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and PUSRI will, not later than May 1,
1991, appoint consultants to assist them in the imp'ementation of their
respective optimization subprojects, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the BAnk and procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants.
The Studies Component
3.24      The Distribution and Marketing Study will be managed by the
Directorate General of Chemical Industry of the MOI; this Directorate will
entrust PUSRI with the distribution part, and will appoint a team of foreign
and local consultants for the marketing part. Both parts would be undertaken
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. For the marketing part of
the study, the above Directorate will employ qualified and experienced
consultants. To coordinate and supervise the implementation of this study,
the Government, not later than May 1, 1991, will establish a Steering
Committee comprising representatives from MOI (Director-General of Chemical
Industry as Chairman); EKUIN; MOA; the Ministry of Trade; the Ministry of
Cooperatives; and the Indonesian Fertilizer Producers' Association (APPI).
The study is scheduled for completion by March 1, 1992. The Government and
the Bank will review the recommendations of the Distribution and Marketing
Study, not later than 60 days after this completion, and agree on an action
plan to implement them. Assurances to the above effects were obtained during
negotiations.
3.25      Development of an Environmental Management Program for the
Fertilizer Industrv will be undertaken by a team of qualified and experienced
foreign and local consultants, (to be appointed by the Directorate-General of
Chemical Industry of the MOI), under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank. The Government will set up, not later than May 1, 1991, a Steering
Committee to coordinate and supervise the implementation of this study,
chaired by the MOI's Director General of Chemical Industry and composed of
representatives from EKUIN, MOA, KLH and APPI. The study is scheduled for
completion by March 1, 1992. The Government and the Bank will review the
recommendations of this study, not later than 60 days after this completion,
and agree on an action plan to implement these recommendations. Assurances to
the above effects were obtained during negotiations.



- 23 -
Project Implementation and Supervision
3.26      Overall Project monitoring and coordination will be the
responsibility of the Directorate General for Chemical Industry of the MOI. A
set of key implementation indicators is given in Annex 8, Section A. The
Project will require about 10 staff-weeks of Bank staff annually for
supervision, comprising mainly enginteering, financial, environment and project
management expertise. A Project supervision plan is at Annex 8, Part B.
IV. PROJECT COST, FINANCING PLAN, AND LOAN FEATURES
A. Project Cost
4.1        The total financing required for the Project is estimated at $444.3
million equivalent, including $222.4 million in foreign exchange (50 percent),
as detailed in Annex 4 and summarized in Table 4.1 below. The estimates
include appropriate physical contingencies, expected price increases, interest
during construction, and incremental working capi-l. The total installed
cost for the new Gresik ammonia/urea plant is based on the actual contract
price, and therefore no contingencies have been added for this investment.
The base-cost estimates for the optimization subprojects were prepared by the
various PFEs and have been reviewed and adjusted to mid-1990 prices. Price
escalations have been estimated using the expenditure schedules prepared by
the PFEs. The price contingencies are based on: (a) domestic inflation of
6.5 percent in 1990 and 1991, and 6 percent in the subsequent ye'.rs; and
(b) international inflation rates of 3.6 percent in 1990 and thereafter. The
Rupiah costs have been converted to U.S. dollars using an exchange rate of
$1.0 = Rp 1,830 for the life of the Project. Interest during construction has
been calculated using an interest rate of 18.0 percent per annum.
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY /a
Foreign Percent of
Component               Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total  Exchange Total Base
- Rp billion ----   ----- S million        Percent    Cost
Gresik Restructuring L  216.9   247.2  464.1  118.6  185.1  258.6    sa        78
Optimization             29.8   188.7  168.5   16.8   76.8   92.1    82        27
Studies                   0.4      1.2    1.6    0.2    0.7    0.9    78        -
Total Base Cost     247.1   887.1  684.2  185.0  211.0  846.6    61    100
Physical Contingencies /  1.8      7.7    9.8    0.9    4.2    5.1    82        1
Expected Price
Increases /c            2.2    12.0   14.2    1.2    6.8    7.8    84         2
Interest During Const.  118.6     -    118.6   64.8    -       64.8     -      19
Working Capital          36.6      -     86.0   20.0    -      20.0     -       6
Total Prolect Cost and
Financing Requirod   408.1   406.8  612.9  221.9  222.4  444.8    S0    128
/a  81.00 = Rp 1,830
Lb   Includes identifiable taxes on services estimated at 84.0 million.
Lc   Applicable only to the Gresik Modernization SubproJect and the Optimization Component.



- 24 -
4.2       The P.T. Petrokimia Gresik Restructuring Component.  This component,
with a total cost of $321.2 million, comprises two subprojects: the new
amnonia/urea plant and the modernization of Gresik's existing plants. The new
Gresik ammonia/urea plant would cost a total of $305.4 million, including
incremental working capital ($20.0 million) and interest during construction
($42.6 million). The capital cost is based on firm price bids and assumes
that the natural gas feedstock will be delivered by Pertamina at the plant
premises at the agreed tariff ($2.0 per MMBtu), with all pipeline facilities
owned and operated by Pertamina and with no gas transmission capital costs
required of Gresik. The total direct foreign exchange requirements of the new
ammonia/urea plant are estimated at $126.3 million. Details of the capital
costs are given in Annex 5-1 and are summarized in Table 4.2. The proposed
ammonia/urea plant will be located within the existing Gresik complex near
Surabaya and will share the already existing plant infrastructure such as the
port, water supply, power generation, and maintenance facilities. Capital
costs are therefore considerably lower than a comparable 'greenfield
facility," and the subproject is much less likely to experience capital cost
Table 4.2: P.T. PETROKIMIA GRESIK RESTRUCTURING COMPONENT -
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE
($ million)
Local     Foreign    Total
1. Ammonia/Urea Plant
Ammonia process licensor                                       93.1       93.1
Urea process licensor                               -          32.5      32.5
Civil works and erection                          100.5         -       100.5
Gresik-supplied equipment and services             16.0         0.7      16.7
Subtotal                                        116.5       126.3     242.8
Working Capital                                    20.0         -         20.0
Interest During Construction                       42.6         -        42.6
Total Subproject Cost                           179.1       126.3     305.4
2. Modernization of Fertilizer Plants
Subtotal                                         2.0         8.8      10.8
Physical contingencies                              0.1         0.4        0.5
Expected price increases                            0.1         0.6        0.7
Subtotal                                          2.2         9.8      12.0
Interest during construction                        3.8         -          3.8
Total Subproject Cost                             6.0         9.8      15.8
Total Component Cost                            185.1       136.1     321.2



- 25 -
overruns and construction delays. The capital cost of the Gresik moderniza-
tion subnroject is estimated at $15.8 million, including contingencies; $9.8
million is in foreign exchange, and $3.8 million in interest during
construction. Details of the capital costs and expected operating benefits
and costs are being prepared by Gresik and would be fully developed before the
subproject is submitted to the Bank for review and approval.
4.3       Optimization Component.  The estimated financing requirements of the
various schemes being considered for inclusion in the Optimization Component
of the Project amount to $122.2 million equivalent, including total foreign
exchange requirement of $85.6 million equivalent. The estimate includes
adequate provisions for physical contingencies, price escalation, and interest
during construction. Table 4.3 summarizes the financing requirements of the
individual components that would be included in the Optimization Component,
and details for some of these investments are given in Annex 5-2 through
Annex 5-4.
Table 4.3:  OPTIMIZATION COMPONENT - CAPITAL COST ESTIMATE
($ million)
Local     Foreign   Total
Base Cost Estimate
Pusri II Urea                                         7.8       19.7       27.5
Pusri Effluent Treatment Facilities                   0.8        2.3        3.1
Kaltim I AmmonialUrea                                 3.9       32.8       36.7
Kujang Ammonia                                        2.0       11.4       13.4
PIM Ammonia                                           1.8        9.6       11.4
Total Base Cost Estimate (BCE)                   16.3        75.8       92.1
Physical contingencies                                0.8        3.8        4.6
Expected price increases                              1.1        6.0        7.1
Total Component Cost                             18.2        85.6      103.8
Interest during construction                         18.4        -         18.4
Total Financing Required                         36.6        85.6      122.2
4.4       Capital cost estimates of the optimization component have been
prepared by the individual companies.  In the case of PUSRI II urea optimiza-
tion the company has invited proposals from the major urea process licensor
and has evaluated them for both technical and cost considerations. The
capital cost estimates are based on the selected proposals, which include
details of the proposed plant modifications and the expected cost estimates.
The PUSRI effluent treatment subproject includes a package of schemes aimed to
improve effluent quality, and the estimates have been prepared by PUSRI from
in-house information. The scope and cost estimates for the Kaltim I
optimization project have been determined in-house by the Kaltim technical



- 26 -
staff. This subproject envisages consultant studies to evaluate and firm up
the various options; the cost estimates should, therefore, be considered
preliminary. The potential options arising from this study are being further
evaluated by Koneba to determine the scope and cost estimates for the Kuiang
ammonia optimization subproject. PIM has contracted Koneba to evaluate
optimization options for the Iskander Muda ammonia plant. The present
estimates for the PIM ammonia optimization project--based on similar schemes
in other plants--should be considered preliminary, to be firmed up when the
Koneba studies are completed.
4.5       Studies Component.  This component includes support for the
preparation of the two studies: a marketing and distribution study, and
development of an Environmental Management Plan for the Fertilizer Sector.
The cost of the two studies (Table 4.4) has been estimated in consultation
with the Indonesian authorities, considering the scope of the studies and the
local and foreign expertise required to implement them.
Table 4.4: STUDIES COMPONENT - COST ESTIMATE
($ million)
Local     Foreign   Total
Marketing and Distribution                           0.1         0.3       0.4
Development of Environment Management
Plan for the Fertilizer Sector                      0.1         0.4      0.5
Total Cost                                        0.2         0.7      0.9
B. Financing Plan
4.6       The financing plan is presented in Table 4.5.  Overall, the Bank
loan of $221.7 million would finance 50 percent of project costs and almost
all (over 99 percent) of the estimated foreign exchange requirements. The
PFEs would provide $144.5 million, or 33 percent of project costs. Local cost
loans from Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (Bank BNI) to P.T. Petrokimia Gresik
would provide $78.1 million, or 17 percent of project costs.



- 27 -
Table 4.6: FINANCING PLAN
Local    Foreign   Total    X of total
m- (l illion)…
Gresik Restructurina Component
Equity (Gresik)                             107.0        -      107.0         24
LT borrowing - World Bank                     -        136.1    186.1        81
MT borrowing (Bank BNI)                      68.1        -       68.1         18
ST borrowing (Bank BNI)                      20.0        -       20.0          4
Subtotal                                  186.1     180.1    821.2         72
Optimization Component
Equity (four fertilizer
companies                                   36.6       -       86.6          9
LT borrowing - World Bank                     -         86.6     86.6         19
Subtotal                                   86.6      865.6    122.2        28
Studies Component
Equity (five fertilizer
companies)                                  0.2        0.7      0.9          -
Subtotal                                    0.2       0.7      0.9
Total Financina
Equity                                       143.8       0.7    144.6         88
LT borrowing - World Bank                     -        221.7    221.7         S0
MT borrowing (Bank BNI)                      68.1        -       68.1         1S
ST borrowing (Bank SNI)                      20.0        -       20.0          4
Total Financing Required                  221.9     222.4    444.3        100
C. Features of the Loan
Onlending Arrangements
4.7        Lending and Allocation Arrangements.  The proposed Bank loan of
$221.7 million would be lent to the Republic of Indonesia at the Bank's
standard variable rate and on standard country terms: 20 years, including a
grace period of 5 years. The MOF would act as the Government's agent. During
negotiations an agreement was reached that the Government would allocate the
proceeds of the loan as detailed below:
(a)  Each of the PFEs will subscribe to a portion of the loan, based on
the amount of funds it expects to utilize for its respective
components. The allocations are shown in Table 4.6.
(b)  The Government would charge the PFEs a commitment fee on the
undisbursed balance of their respective loan allocations equal to
the commitment fee payable by the Government to the Bank.



- 28 -
Table 4.6: INITIAL ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS TO
PARTICIPATING FERTILIZER ENTERPRISES
PFE                                                        Amount ($ million)
Gresik Restructuring Component
P.T. Petrokimia Gresik: Ammonia/Urea Plant                     126.3
Modernization of Existing Plant         9.8
Subtotal                                                    136.1
Optimization Component
P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja                                           25.1
P.T. Pupuk Kalimantan Timur                                     37.1
P.T. Pupuk Kujang                                               12.7
P.T. Pupuk Iskandar Muda                                        10.7
Subtotal                                                     85.6
Total                                                     221.7
(c) Funds to the PFEs will be lent by MOF through Subsidiary Loan
Agreements (SLAs) with each institution. Loan proceeds onlent to
Gresik for the new Gresik ammonia/urea plant would be for a fixed
term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace. Loan proceeds onlent
to the PFEs for the Optimization Component and the Gresik moderniza-
tion subproject would be for a fixed term of 10 years, including 3
years of grace. At negotiations, the Government and the Bank
reviewed the draft SLAs between MOF and the PFEs. All PFEs would
sign a Project Agreement with the Bank outlining their obligations
in implementing the proposed Project. Signing of SLAs between MOF
and the five PFEs, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank,
for undertaking of the respective project components would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
(d) To ensure that the onlending rate for Bank funds reflects the market
rate for domestic term-funds to Indonesian enterprises, the
onlending rate to the five PFEs will be at a variable interest rate
pegged to BI's three-month SBI (until the introduction of a six-
month certificate in June 1990, this was BI's SBI of longest tenor).
This rate would be adjusted on January 1 and July 1 of each year,
based on the average of SBI three-month maturity quotations during
the preceding six months plus one percentage point. While the
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk, this formula for
establishing the cost of funds from the Government to the PFEs
includes an implicit premium reflecting market expectations
regarding exchange rate changes. Since deposit rates in Indonesia
are market-determined and capital flows are generally unrestricted,
this approach would result in a rate that approximates the market
rate for prime industrial enterprises borrowing from local financial



- 29 -
institutions. To protect the PFEs from possibly excessive
volatility in the reference rate, the onlending rate would not
exceed the average of end-of-day quotations of the five SCBs' three-
month time deposits during the same preceding six-mcnth period plus
one percentage point.
(e) Gresik, for its modernization subproject, and the other PFEs, for
their optimization subprojects, will, not later than June 30, 1992,
submit to the Bank for review and approval a Subproject Appraisal
Report and an snvironmental impact assessment of the subproject,
including an Executive Summary of the latter (in English). The
subproject appraisal reports would include: (i) subproject
objectives and description; (ii) estimated cost, local and foreign,
including physical and price contingencies, incremental working
capital, and interest during construction (if applicable);
(iii) proposed financing plan; (iv) procurement method;
(v) subproject organization and management; (vi) benefits;
(vii) financial and economic analysis, including FRR and ERR and
sensitivity analysis; (viii) environmental analysis (summary of the
EIA and proposed remedial actions, as appropriate); (ix) risks; and
(x) detailed implementation schedule. Environmental Impact
Assessments would include:  (i) an executive summary (not to exceed
10 pages) of the environmental assessment (in English) including the
significant findings and recommended actions; (ii) baseline data
(not to exceed 10 pages) of the study area's existing relevant
physical, biological and socio-economic conditions, including the
relevant government environmental regulations pertaining to the
subproject and the status of any environmental assessment required
by government authorities; (iii) a description of the potential
environmental impacts, positive and negative, direct and indirect
resulting from the subproject; (iv) the proposed feasible, cost
effective mitigation plan for the subproject, outlining the measures
to reduce any significant adverse impacts on the environment to
acceptable levels; and (v) the environmental monitoring and
management plan for the subproject, including how it will be
implemented and by whom. Assurances to the above effects were
obtained during negotiations. Conditions of disbursement for these
subprojects would be that each subproject appraisal report and
environmental impact assessment will have been found satisfactory to
the Bank.
4.8       Retroactive Financing.  The Government has requested retroactive
financing of up to $22.2 million to cover advanced procurement of imported
equipment and services incurred by the PFEs. Such advanced procurement is
necessary to avoid Project implementation delays due to the long lead time
required to purchase certain items of equipment and to appoint key engineering
services, for which there is no other source of financing a'ailable.
Procurement of the equipment and services covered by the retroactive financing
would be in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Retroactive financing would be
limited to 10 percent of the Bank loan and restricted to costs incurred after
January 15, 1990.



- 30 -
Loan Administration
4.9          Procurement.   The procurement arrangements  for the Project are
summarized in Table 4.7. Equipment and materiale as well as engineering
Table 4.7: PROCUREMENT ARRANCEUENTS
(-  m1 I ion) /s
Project Components                                                                             Total
and Elements                                  ICB        LIB       LCB      Other     N.A.   Cost
A. Gresik Restructuring
(a)  Amnmonia/Uree Plant
Ammonia Process
Equipment and Materials            62.1       10 0         -        8.2              80.8
(12 1)     (10-0)               (8.2)             (80 3)
Engineering Services and           12)8        - (                  -                12.8
Licenses                          (12.8)                                            (12 8)
Urea Process
EquIpment and Materials            12 4        8 0         -        B.1              2386
(12.4)      (8.0)               (8. 1)            (23.5)
Engineering Services and            9          -0          -        -                 9.0
Licenses                           (9.0) (9.0)
Civil Works, Erection and
Commissioning                         -          -         26.0      7656             100.5
Gresik Supplied Equipment             -          -         14.0       2.0              18.0
(b) Plant Modernization
Equipment and Materials              6.8        0.6        -         1.e               9.0
16.7       -                     .0(.8) (   )Q8
Engineering Services and            (.87)       (0.8)      -(0.4) 02.7
Licenses                            (1.7)                                              (1.7)
(c) Consultants for:
(i) Ammonia/Urea Plant                -          -          -        0.7                0.7
(0.7)             (0.7)
(ii) Plant Modernization               -           -         -         0.8                0.3
(0.8)             (0.3)
S. Optimization
Equipment and materials for:
i) Iskander Muds                        8.0         0.8       -         2.2               11.0
(ii) Kaltim                              .6(2)                 -01                        37.8
92.4)       10        -         2.0              (88.6)
(iii) Kujang                             2.4        1(0)                  2.0              12.4
~94)      (10)                f0:8)             (11.2)
(iv) PUSRI                              f4          2                    0 1             (8 0.6
(18 4)      (2.0)               (0.8)             (21.2)
Engineering Services and
Licenses for:
(l) Iskander Muds                       1.25        -         -         0.26               1.50
(1.25)                                            (1.25)
(ll) Kaltim                              8.25       -          -         0.86              8.60
(8.25)                                            (8.25)
(lli) Kujang                              1.26       -          -         0.95              2.20
(iv) PUSRI                              (1. 26)                                            (1.26)
(lv) PUSRI                     3:~865     -         -         0.85               4.00
(8.65)                                            (8.85)
Consultnnts for:
(i) Isksnder Muds                       -           -         -         0.26               0.25
(0.25)            (0.25)
(li) Knitim                              -          -          -         0.26              0.26
0. 25             (0.25)
(iii) Kujang                              -          -          -        (025               0.26
025)            (0.25)
(iv) PUSRI                               -          -          -        (0.26              0.26
(0.26)            (0.26)
C. Studies
Consultants                                -           -         -         0.9                0.9
D. Others /b                                   -           -         -         -        84.8    84.8
Total                                    175.6        24.4      89.0    120.6       84.8   444.8
(176.6)     (24.4)      -       (21.8)      -     (221.7)
Figures In parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed under the Bank loan.
ZE   Comprises working capitel and Interest during constuction.



_ 31 -
services and licenses, with a total value of $142.6 million equivalent will be
procured through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. Exceptions to ICB
will be made for: (a) equipment proprietary to the process design, with an
estimated value of $19.8 million, to be procured by direct purchase from
original suppliers eligible under the Bank guidelines; (b) contracts with an
estimated value of less than $400,000 each (about $24.4 million) to be
procured under limited international bidding procedures (LIB) after
solicitation of quotations from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Bank guidelines; and (c) contracts with a value of less than $100,000 each (in
total about $9.0 million) to be procured by international shopping procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The aggregate of equipment contracts financed under
the Bank loan to be procured under LIB and international shopping procedures
will not exceed $32.0 million equivalent. To the maximum extent possible,
identical or similar items would be grouped together r purposes of bidding
and procurement. For purposes of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods under ICB, qualified domestic suppliers will be allowed a
preference of 15 percent of the c.i.f. price or the applicable import duty,
whichever is lower. Contracts for equipment and materials exceeding $1.0
million and all contracts for engineering and consultancy services financed
under the loan will be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement
documentation, resulting in a coverage of about 70 percent of the total
estimated value of Bank-financed contracts. Other contracts for equipment and
materials will be reviewed by the Government Procurement Control Units, as
required, and by the Bank on a sample basis, subsequent to their award.
4.10      Ci-iil works contracts totaling $25.0 million, to be financed wholly
by the PFEs, will be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB). None of
these civil tiorks contracts will exceed $1.5 million, and they are not likely
to attract interest from foreign bidders. Contracts for consulting services
financed by the Bank ($2.0 million) will be awarded in accordance with the
Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. A General Procurement Notice for
the Project has been published.
Disbursements
4.11      Disbursements of the proposed Bank loan would be made as shown in
Table 4.8. Disbursements will be made against full documentation. The
estimated schedule of disbursements for the Bank loan (Annex 6) has been made
on the basis of the disbursement profiles of industry projects in Indonesia
and the Asia Region. It is anticipated that the loan would be conmitted by
June 30, 1996, and fully disbursed in seven years; thus the Project is
expected to be completed by June 30, 1997, and the loan closing date will be
December 31, 1997.



- 32 -
Table 4.8: ALLOCATION OF BANK LOAN
($ million equivalent)
Component/Category                     Amount           Percent of Costs to b Financed
(I million)
A. Gresik Restructuring
(a) Equipment and Materials for:                        1OOX of foreign expenditures for
(i  Ammonia/Ures Plant                103.8         directly iuported items:  90 of local
(ii)  Modernization                      7.8         expenditure for locally manufactured
items (ex-factory costs); and 60! of
other items procured locally.
Subtotal                     111.6
(b) Engineering Services and
Licenses for:
(i)  Ammonia/Urea Plant                21.8
(li)  Modernization                      1.7
Subtotal                      28.5         100% of expenditur e.
(c)  Consultants for:
(i) Ammonia/Urea Plant                0.7
(ii) Modernization                     0.8
Subtotal                      1.0         1OOX of expenditures.
S.  Optimization
(a)  Equlpment and Materials for:
(I  Iskander Muds                         9.2         100X of foreign expenditures for
(ii   Kaltim                              88.6         directly Imported Items; 90% of local
(ii   Kujang                               11.2         expendituroe for lo-illy manufattured
(iv  PUSRI                                21.2          tems (ex-factory ..sts); and 6OX of
other items procured locally.
Subtotal                       76.2
(b)  Engineering and Services and
Licenses for:
(I  Iskander Muds                         1.26
*ii)  Kaltim                               8.26
(ili  Kujang                                1.26
(iv  PUSRI                                 8.66
Subtotal                        9.40        100l of expenditures.
(c)  Consultants for:
I)  Iskander Muda                         0.26
(ii)  Kaltim                               0.26
(iii)  Kujang                               0.26
(Iv  PUSRI                                 0.26
Subtotal                       1.00        1OOX of expenditures.
Total                         221.70
4.12        Auditing and Reporting.   The financial accounts of the PFEs would be
audited by the Financial and Development Supervisory Board (BPKP), which is
acceptable to the Bank.  Each PFE would submit to the Ba-:.; the report of BPKP
(in English) no later than six months after the end of its fiscal year. All
PFEs woul be required to submit semiannual progress reports (in English),
acceptable to the Bank, covering their respective operations under the
Project. These auditing and reporting arrangements have been confirmed at
negotiations. The Project Completion Report will be prepared by the
Directorate General of Chemical Industry in MOI.



- 33 -
V. FINANCIAL, ECONOMIC, AND ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS AND PROJECT RISKS
A. Financial Analysis
Financial Analysis of Gresik Ammonia/Urea Plant
5.1       Past Financial Performance.  Gresik's past financial performance has
been satisfactory and reflects the combined effect of the steady output of its
two principal products, TSP and AS, Government-controlled prices, and a good
volume of sales of industrial chemicals. In the four-year period 1986-89,
sales have increased by an average of 13 percent p.a. The production volume
of TSP has increased at a rate of only 2 percent p.a., while AS production has
increased by 4 percent p.a. during 1986-89. Earnings throughout the four-year
period have been consistently positive, althougn at times marginal, primarily
as a result of steadily increasing costs due to inflation and sporadic
Government price adjustments. In 1988, fertilizer prices were reduced by an
average of 2 percent; as a consequence, after-tax net income declined to only
Rp 2.4 billion in 1988 compared with Rp 37.8 billion in 1987. Net income
levels were satisfactory at Rp 18.5 billion in 1989, representing a
6.9 percent return on equity or a 3.5 percent return on total assets.
Gresik's current financial condition is sound, with a total long-term
debt/equity ratio averaging 1:1 for 1986-89. The current ratic is favorable,
at 1.4 times for year-end 1989. Debt service coverage has ave_aged a
satisfactorv 2.4 times over the past four years. Gresik's recent operating
performance and key financial indicators are summarized in the Table 5.1.
Detailed financial assumptions and data are shown in Annexes 7-1 through 7.4.
Table 5.1: GRESIK - HISTORICAL FINANCIAL DATA
(Rp billion, unless otberwise stated)
Item                                 1986         1987         1988         1989 /a
Sales                                451.1        533.7        537.9        631.4
Net income                            39.0         37.8          2.4         18.5
Accounts Receivable                  239.0        314.0        590.1        456.0
Internal cash generation lb           71.1         71.6         37.6         54.8
Net income/sales, (percent)            8.6          7.1          0.4          2.9
Net income/total assets, (percent)   6.8            5.9          0.3          2.3
Current ratio                          1.6          1.5          1.3          1.4
Debt/equity ratio                    1/1.7        1/2.1        1/2.0        1/2.6
Debt service coverage, times           3.2          2.5          1.8          2.0
Net income/equity, (percent)          17.2         15.2          1.0          6.9
Accounts Receivable/Sales              0.5          0.6          1.1          0.7
/a Unaudited.
/b Net income plus depreciation.
5.2       Production Volumes and Unit Prices.  During 1986-89, Gresik's TSP
volume increased from 1,120,000 tons in 1986 to 1,200,000 tons in 1989, an



- 34 -
average annual '^crease of 2 percent, while its production of AS increased
from 577,000 tons in 1986 to 632,000 tons in 1989, a 4 percent per year
increase. Unit prices for AS during the same period declined by an average of
2 percent from Rp 215,000 per ton in 1986 to Rp 211,000 per ton in 1988 but
rebounded to Rp 226,500 per ton in 1989, an increase of 7 percent. TSP unit
prices, in contrast, increased by an average of 12 percent per year, from
Rp 276,600 per ton in 1986 to Rp 307,100 per ton in 1988, and in 1989 were
further raised to Rp 381,000 per ton, an increase of 24 percent.
5.3       Operating Costs and Margins.  In contrast to the modest increases in
production volumes and unit prices, operating costs (not including interest
charges) increased an average of 14 percent per year during 1986-88.
Consequently, gross profit and operating profits (on sales) were reduced from
the 19 percent gross profit and 9 percent operating profit experienced in 1986
to a 5 percent operating loss in 1988. In 1988, however, income from subsi-
diaries and outside income from Gresik's metal fabrication facilities turned
the operating loss into a modest profit of F.- 2.4 billion. In 1989, Gresik
showed an operating profit of Rp 15.6 billion, representing a 2.5 percent
return on sales.
5.4       Financial Structure.  Gresik's level of long-term debt to equity is
very conservative (1989 long-term debt/equity ratio was 1:1), and no
additional paid-in capital would be required during the construction period
for the new ammonia/urea plant. Projected long-term debt to equity (paid-in
capital plus retained earnings) is not expected to exceed 1:1 during 1990-99.
Gresik markets its two principal products, TSP and AS, through PUSRI's
marketing and distribution system. This sales arrangement results in Gresik
carrying on its balance sheet an accounts receivable that in the past four
years has averaged nine months of sales--very high for an enterprise producing
a baa'  commodity such as fertilizer; comparable commercial enterprises would
be expected to carry receivables of from 60 to 90 days of sales. Some of the
receivables can be offset by withholding or delaying payments to creditors or
suppliers (accounts payable), but purchases of imported raw material or
payroll obligations must be met on time. The Government offers interim
financing of 80 percent of Gresik's receivables from PUSRI at a nominal
interest rate of only 3 percent. Thke consequent high receivables and payables
result in a balance sheet that con3ists mainly of current accounts (four-year
average: 70 percent).
5.5       Financial and Operating Strategy of the Gresik AmmoniajUrea Plant
Subproject. The construction phase of the new ammonia/urea plant would take
an estimated 36 months from start to production. At completion, Gresik's
total assets will be more than doubled. Under the subproject, the production
levels of TSP and AS would remain at the pre-project levels of 1,220,000 tons
for TSP and 650,000 tons of AS, but a cleaner, more efficient natural gas
conversion plant would substitute for the existing and aging fuel-oil
conversion plant that is now used to produce ammonia. In addition, the new
ammonia plant would supply feedstock to an urea plant (also built as part of
the subproject) with an annual capacity of 460,000 tons of urea. Because the
ammonia/urea plant is scheduled to commence commercial production in late
1993, only 190,000 tons of urea would be produced in 1993. Froum a financial
standpoint, the subproject, because of lower unit production costs, would
enable Gresik to adjust its fertilizer unit prices to border prices by 1994
while obtaining a satisfactory return on assets and stockholders' equity.



- 35 -
Without the new ammonia/urea plant, Gresik's earnings with border prices would
not be sufficient to cover even routinely needed equipment replacements.
5.6       Comparison of Production Volumes and Gross Profits.  Projections,
shown in Annex 7-5, compare, in 1989 values, the "with" and "without" project
production volumes and gross profits with border prices. As seen, with border
prices and no urea production, Gresik's gross profit from its main products
(TSP and AS) would be significantly reduced. It is only with the addition of
by-product revenue that Gresik would show a minimal gross profit (Rp 12.9
billion) that would result in a break-even situation when administrative,
marketing, and other charges are added. However, 'with project" at border
prices for urea, gross profit would double from Rp 42.5 billion in 1989 to
Rp 88.3 billion at full production in 1994, before by-product revenue.
5.7       Projected Financial Performance.  Under the Project, with current
prices and projected border prices for the main products, all financial
parameters are forecast to remain favorable. During construction, financial
ratios (such as net income to sales) will increase from the 2.9 percent in
1989 to 6.5 percent by 1994, due primarily to the reduced variable costs
caused by the switch from oil to natural gas and the inclusion of urea
production at border prices. The same trend holds for net income to assets
(1989: 2.3 percent; 1994: 5.0 percent). Current ratios are projected to
remain at 1.3 or above during the project period. Debt service coverage
averages an adequate 2.2 times during 1990-94. Net income to equity yields a
satisfactory 15.5 percent at full production (1994). A summary of Gresik's
financial performance under the project is shown in Table 5.2 and in more
detail in Annex 7-4.
Table 5.2: GRESIK - PROJECTED FINANCIAL DATA WITH PROJECT
(Current Rp billion, unless otherwise noted)
Item                               1990      1991       1992       1993       1994
Sales                              677.0    754.6      791.3      896.6      981.7
Net income                          27.6      46.8      39.9       79.7       64.3
Internal cash generation            63.9      76.9      71.5      118.4      105.2
Net income/sales, (percent)          4.1       6.2       5.0        8.9        6.5
Net income/total assets, (percent) 3.2         4.2       3.2        6.2        5.0
Net income/equity, (percent)         9.6      14.9      12.5       21.3       15.5
Current ratio                        1.4       1.4       1.3        1.4        1.4
Debt/equity ratio                  1/2.3    1/1.0      1/0.8      111.0      1/1.4
Debt service coverage, times         2.3       2.5       2.2        2.1        1.8
Optimization Component
5.8       Summary financial statements for PUSRI, Kaltim, Kujang, and PIM are
shown in Annexes 7-6 through 7-9. These four PFEs are generally lightly
leveraged, with long-term debt/equity ratios ranging in 1989 from no long-term
debt in the case of Kujang to a still conservative, long-term debt/equity
ratio of 1.9 for PIM. Another structural characteristic of the four urea/



- 36 -
ammonia-producing enterprises is their high percentage of current assets to
total assets (average 45 percent in 1989). In the case of PUSRI, the
percentage of current assets to total assets is 73 percent, which is explained
by its marketing and distribution responsibilities, whereby it must maintain
relatively larger proportions of working capital and inventory. The remaining
three have no requirement or facilities for keeping extensive inventories, and
the major portion of current assets consists of cash, short-term securities,
and receivables, indicating a slow payment practice by the Government in
settling accounts. The PFEs have adapted to this payment procedure by keeping
a sizable cushion of cash and short-term securities on hand (1989 average for
Kaltim, Kujang, and PIM: 27 percent of annual sales). All four of the
urea/ammonia-producing enterprises have ample capacity to take on the equity
and debt requirements of the optimization subprojects. Each subproject
represents a much smaller project in terms of the ratio of new assets acquired
to existing assets compared with the proposed new Gresik ammonia/urea project,
in which Gresik's total assets will more than double. By contrast, the
investment requirements of the Kaltim subproject (the largest optimization
subproject at $41.4 million), represent only 6 percent of Kaltim's total
assets at year-end 1989. All of the four PFEs carry equity investments on
their balance sheets, ranging from only $0.2 million in the case of PIM to
$16 million for Kujang. Kujang has invested in several downstream chemical
operations.
5.9       Past Financial Performance.  Past financial performance of the four
current ammonia/urea producers has been satisfactory, but returns have been
relatively low in terms of net income to total assets or total capital
(equity). In 1989, the four enterprises returned a 5.4 percent average of net
income to assets and an 8.2 percent average return on capital. Net income to
total sales performance has been consistently positive, with an average for
the four PFEs in 1989 of 9.8 percent (a high of 10.9 percent for Kaltim and a
low of 4.9 percent for PIM).
Financial Rate of Return (FRR) and Sensitivity Analysis
5.10      New Gresik Ammonia/Urea Plant.  The base FRR of this subproject of
the Gresik Restructuring Component has been calculated using constant 1990
price levels for costs and 1990 border price levels for the urea production
(Table 5.3). Under the base situation, the subproject shows a 16.6 percent
rate of return over a period from 1990, the start of construction, until 2006.
Annex 7-10 is a summary of the incremental costs and revenues of the base case
which is derived from the income statement and sources and application of
Gresik projected in 1990 values (Annex 7-3). Sensitivity analyses were based
on projected border prices, current domestic ex-factory prices, reduced border
prices, lagged construction schedules, and 20 percent capital cost overruns.



- 37 -
Table 5.3: P.T. PETROKIMIA GRESIK AMMONIA/UREA PLANT
SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN
(1990 prices)
Item                                                                FRR
(percent)
Base case - at projected 1993 border price for urea ($155/ton)            16.6 /a
Border price projections for urea                                         20.1
80 percent of border price projections for urea                           15.3
Capital costs increased by 20 percent                                     13.6
Construction period extended by five months (until 1994)                  15.1
Lengthened construction period with 20 percent increased
capital costs                                                             12.3
At 1990 domestic ex-factory prices for urea ($125/ton)                     12.2
/a  Landed, bagged price per ton (1990 prices):
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
Base case                 155   155   i55   155   155   155   155   155
Border price projection  155   176   195   192   189   186   183   180
80Z of border price
projection              124  1V41   156   154   151   149   146   144
5.11      Optimization Component.  The subprojects of the Optimization
Component that have been worked out in detail all show satisfactory financial
returns. The PUSRI optimization subproject (Annex 7-11) shows a FRR of
32 percent using 1990 border prices. Using projected border prices, the
return is even higher. The same is true for the Kaltim optimization component
(Annex 7-12), which has a base FRR of 37 percent. Relatively high capital
costs and a relatively modest increase in production limit the Kujang
subproject (Annex 7-13) to 16 percent using 1990 border prices. PIM has not
yet completed all the financial projections required for its subproject. Each
of the subprojects will be subject to further review and approval when
submitted by the PFEs to the Bank.
B. Economic Analysis
5.12      Economic Costs and Benefits.  The principal assumptions used in the
economic analysis of the various components of the Project are described in
Annex 7-14. The economic costs and benefits of internationally traded items
have been valued at border prices. Wherever possible, prices have been
obtained from the latest commodity price forecast revisions of the Bank's
Commodity Studies and Projections Division. In all other cases, price
projections have been derived by maintaining an appropriate relationship among
the different prices. Ammonia and urea, in which Indonesia is in a
competitive position and is already a significant exporter, have been valued
at border export prices. Other items have been valued at landed costs.



- 38 -
Natural gas has been valued at fuel-oil equivalent at Gresik and Kujang, since
at these locations there is a significant demand for gas for alternative
energy uses. At Kaltim and PIM, natural gas has been valued in economic terms
at the present delivered cost of $l.OO/MMBtu. All prices have been expressed
in constant 1990 U.S. dollars. Since no duties and taxes are applicable on
capital investments in the fertilizer industry, the economic capital costs are
the same as the financial project costs, less price escalations and interest
during construction. Conservatively, local currency costs have been converted
to U.S. dollars at an exchange rate of $1.00 = Rp 1,830, without further
deflation.
5.13      The major economic benefits from the various subprojects under the
Project are: (a) for the new Gresik ammonia/urea facility, additional pro-
duction of urea and replacement of ammonia (para. 3.5); (b) for PUSRI II urea
optimization, additional urea production converting a part of the surplus
ammonia becoming available from the ammonia optimization project and PUSRI Ib
new ammonia/urea facility; (c) for Kaltim I optimization, additional urea
production, partly in granular form, and reduction in energy consumption; and
(d) for Kujang ammonia optimization, additional ammonia production and a
reduction in energy consumption. For PUSRI effluent treatment, PIM ammonia
optimization, and Gresik plant modernization subprojects, no economic analysis
has been carried out because, in the first case, the benefits are not
quantifiable and, in the other two cases, the subprojects are still in the
preparation stage.
5.14      New Gresik Ammonia/Urea Plant Subproject.  Since the ammonia
produced from the project will substitute (a) ammonia and carbon dioxide now
being provided from the existing fuel-oil-bas-i ammonia plant for gypsum-based
AS production and (b) ammonia delivered from Kaltim, the impact of the project
on the overall economics of the complex is assessed on the basis of the entire
complex with and without the project. The base ERR of the new Gresik
ammonia/urea plant, considering the subproject as an integral part of the
complex, is calculated at 19.5 percent (Annex 7-15).
5.15      The sensitivity analysis contained in Table 5.4 indicates that the
ERR of the subproject remains adequate, over a wide range of project risks.
The switching-value analysis indicates that the capital cost has to go up by
more than 75 percent, and the urea price has to come down by more than
28 percent, before the subproject's ERR will go below 10 percent. Such large
changes due to one or a combination of the risks are unlikely to occur, and
the project will therefore be economically viable over a range of unfavorable
conditions.



- 39 -
Table 5.4:  P.T. PETROKIMIA GRESIK AMMONIA/UREA PLANT -
SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
(1990 prices)
ERR
(percent)
Base Case (total complex basis)                                             20.7
Sensitivity Tests (total complex basis)
Capital cost up by 20 percent                                            17.6
Construction period extended to four years                                17.4
Drop in urea price by 20 percent                                         16.2
Gas price up by 20 percent                                                18.4
Switching Values for 10 percent Economic Rate of Return
Capital                                             Increase by 98 percent
Urea price                                          Decrease by 43 percent
5.16      Optimization Component.  On the basis of the cost and benefit
streams for the PUSRI II urea optimization contained in Annex 7-16, the
subproject will have an ERR of 37.2 percent. If adjustments are made for a
part of the investment for the above subproject, such as replacement of the
existing titanium-lined urea reactor (which will in any case be necessary for
the continued operation of the existing PUSRI II urea plant), the subproject's
ERR will be even higher. The cost and benefit streams for the Kaltim I
optimization contained in Annex 7-17, show that the subproject will have an
ERR of 57.1 percent, based on an economic value of natural gas of $1.00 per
MMBtu. Since the increase in gas requirements after the optimization is very
small, the ERR changes only marginally, even though the economic value of gas
is taken as $2.00 per MMBtu.
5.17      Foreign Exchange Earnings.  The total Project, including all its
components, has a foreign exchange investment requirement of about
$220.0 million. The project will contribute an additional urea output of
about 820,000 t, of which about 119,000 t will be in granular form. At border
prices per ton of urea (prill) of $150, urea (granule) of $160, and ammonia of
$110, the additional output could contribute about $135 million per year as
incremental net export income.
C. Environmental Analysis
5.18      Gresik Fertilizer Complex.  In June 1990, Gresik completed a
SEL 2/ (para. 1.23) for the Gresik complex which has been approved by the
Central Environmental Commission (CEC). The SEL has been reviewed by the Bank
2/   Study of Environmental Evaluation of Petrokimia Gresik Industrial Area,
by PPKL Lemlit Unair, June 1, 1990.



- 40 -
and found satisfactory. The principal environmental problems outlined in the
SEL relate to gaseous NH3 and S02 emissions from various parts of the complex
and to liquid effluents containing dissolved NH3, chemical oxygen demand (COD)
and biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) from the wastewater treatment facility.
5.19      Gaseous Effluents.  Emissions of NH3 and S02 in excess of local or
accepted international standards originate from four locations in the Gresik
complex: the present ammonia plant (NH3 and NO.). the sulfuric acid plant
(SO2), the power generation facility (SO2), and the AS plants (NH3). Under the
proposed Project, the old ammonia plant will be permanently closed and
dismantled, thus eliminating the existing hazardous gaseous NH3 emissions.
The power generation facilities at Gresik would be converted to natural gas
under the Project, thereby eliminating SO2 emissions from that source. Gresik
has two sulfuric acid plants. One is a modern facility and the S02 emission
levels are acceptable. The other sulfuric acid plant was built in 1972 and is
relatively inefficient with regard to energy and sulfur recovery. SO2
emission levels of 2,400 ppm compare with the locally acceptable level of
2,100 ppm and the international standard of 2 kg S02 per ton of acid produced.
Ambient SO2 levels are acceptable (less than 0.2 ppm SO2). Gresik has held up
retrofitting or renlacing the older plant with less polluting technologies
until the overall demand for sulfuric acid would justify the investment. The
disposition of the old sulfuric acid plant will be assessed under the Gresik
plant modernization subproject. Gaseous effluents of the AS operations at the
complex contain from 40 ppm to 70 ppm of NH3 and are scrubbed to reduce the
ammonia. The environmental impact study identified the scrubbing operations
as areas requiring improvement. Another potential source of toxic gaseous
emissions is the phosphoric acid plant, which produces fluoride gas that is                   i
recovered and processed effectively into aluminum fluoride, a valuable by-
product.                                                                                      7
5.20      Liquid Effluents.  At present the Gresik complex utilizes a
centralized wastewater treatment plant that collects and processes all runoff
and other liquid effluents for discharge into the sea. The environmental
impact study notes that, during periods of high throughput (high rainfall),
effluen: from the treatment plant exceeds local and international standards
for NH3, COD, and BOD. The liquid effluents from the new ammonia/urea plant
will contain less than 5 ppm NH3 and will lower the total NH3 effluents though
total liquid volume will be larger. In its environment management plan,
Gresik will incorporate a provision for increasing the capacity of the
centralized wastewater treatmer.. plant to reduce total effluent discharge,
including maximum flows to meet international standards for all contained
pollutants.
5.21      Solid Waste.  Problems with solid wastes at the Gresik complex
relate to the proper management and location of landfills for unwanted by-
products, precipitated sludge, and spent catalysts. The plan to sell the by-
product calcium carbonate to an adjacent cement manufacturer to substitute
partially for natural limestone has not materialized, and calcium carbonate is
stockpiled in areas adjacent to the complex. The waste liquid effluents from
the various parts of the complex contain high amounts of fluorine (up to 4,000
ppm). These are collected and treated with lime in the centralized wastewater
treatment plant to precipitate as a sludge containing calcium silicofluoride.
The sludge is thickened, filtered, and then landfilled. The water effluent
contains virtually no residual fluoride. Many of the chemical processes in



- 41 -
the complex utilize catalysts containing heavy metals such as chromium and
vanadium. At present, the spent catalysts are disposed of routinely in a
landfill whereas they should be recycled and subsequently treated as hazardous
materials.
5.22      The anvironmental impact of the new ammonia/urea plant to be funded
under the Project would be to reduce NH, emissions to 5 ppm (well within
acceptable standards) and eliminate S02 discharges from the existing ammonia
and power generation operations. In addition, to overcome the principal
problems identified in the environmental impact study that would not be
directly remedied by the installation of the proposed new ammonia/urea plant,
Gresik agreed at negotiations to develop, not later than November 30, 1991, an
environmental management plan to include: (a) the treatment of high S02
emissions from the existing sulfuric acid plant; (b) the treatment of gaseous
NH3 discharge from he AS operations; tc) increasing the capacity of the
present wastewater treatment facilities to cope with overload conditions and
the proposed new nmonia/urea plant; and (d) providing for the safe treatment,
recycling, storage, and disposal of solids including calcium carbonate,
wastewater treatment plant sludge, and spent catalysts. Gresik is studying
these possibilities for inclusion under the modernization of their existing
fertilizer plant subproject.
D. Project Risks
5.23      The Project is not expected to encounter any major technical or
managerial risks because the technologies to be used in the several components
are commercially proven, and because Indonesia has considerable experience in
construction and operation of modern fertilizer facilities. The new Gresik
ammonia/urea plant is substantially identical to two other recent projects in
Indonesia. Each of the PFEs has considerable experience, and each has an
extensive training program to develop new staff and to retrain existing
personnel. The timely availability of natural gas to the Gresik ammonia/urea
plant is a potential risk. The offshore gas supplies are proven, but
completion of the pipeline could be delayed. To account for this risk, no
disbursements would be used for expenditures under the Gresik Restructuring
Component until a contract, satisfactory to the Bank, for the provision of the
required natural gas has been executed on behalf of Gresik and PERTAMINA.
5.24      The main sector-wide risks are that domestic ex-factory prices may
not be increased to border prices as anticipated (para. 3.18) and that
international fertilizer prices may not be in line with the level projected in
the Bank's commodity forecast. The first risk is minimized by the Government-
stated objective in the Policy Statement to bring these prices to their
economic level by actions taken during Repelita V. The latter risk is
acceptable because the industry as a whole has a relatively low variable cost
structure and so should be able to maintain a reasonable financial viability
even with prices significantly lower than the present forecast. In fact, the
proposed Project is in part designed to enhance Indonesia's already favorable
competitive position with regard to nitrogen exports, and to improve
substantially Gresik's present cost structure.



- 42 -
VI. UNDERSTANDINGS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.1       During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) that th6 Project will be implemented in accordance with the Policy
Statement (para. 3.18);
(b) that the studies of Fertilizer Distribution and Marketing, and of
the Development of an Environmental Management Program for the
Fertilizer Industry will be prepared by March 1, 1992, under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank and by qualified and
experienced consultants, and that for each of these studies MOI will
establish, not later than May 1, 1991, a Steering Committee
(paras. 3.24 and 3.25);
(c) that the Government and the Bank will review jointly the
recommendations of the two studies mentioned in (b) above and
supported under the Project, not later than 60 days after their
completion, and agree on Government action plans to implement these
recommendations (paras. 3.24 and 3.25);
(d) that the arrangements for the allocation of loan proceeds and the
onlending terms to the PFEs will be as indicated in para. 4.7;
6.2       During negotiations, the following understandings were reached with
the Government: (a) that the revised farmgate fertilizer prices for 1991
adopted by the Government, as agreed during the exchange of views on these
prices in September 1990, between the Government and the Bank, represent a
satisfactory progress in bringing these prices ultimately to their economic
levels (para. 3.18); (b) that the Government will, by October 1 of each year,
commencing not later than October 1, 1991, review the farmgate and ex-factory
prices of fertilizers, exchange views with the Bank on the results of the
review, and thereafter, if required, revise such prices taking into account
the principles set forth in the Policy Statement (nara. 3.18); and (c) that
E tions will be taken during Repelita V (1993-94) to bring the prices of
fertilizer products gradually to their economic level and eliminate the
associated subsidy payments from the Government's budget (para. 3.18).
6.3       During negotiations, the following agreements with the PFEs were
reached:
(a) that Gresik will, not later than May 1, 1991, appoint consultants to
assist in the implementation of the ammonia/urea plant and of the
modernization subproject (para. 3.22);
(b)  that PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and PUSRI will, not later than May 1, 1991,
appoint consultants to assist them in the implementation of their
respective optimization subprojects (para. 3.23);
(c) that Gresik, for its modernization s¶tbproject, and the other PFEs,
for their respective optimization subprojects, will, not later than
June 30, 1992, submit to the Bank for review and approval a



- 43 -
subproject appraisal report and an environmental impact assessment
of the subproject, including an Executive Summary (in English)
(para. 4.7(e)); and
(d)  that Gresik will, not later than November 30, 1991, develop an
Environmental Management Plan to overcome the main environmental
issues identified in the Environmental Impact Study of the Gresik
complex and not dealt with as part of the implementation of the new
ammonia/urea plant to be built under the Project (para. 5.22).
6.4       A condition of loan effectiveness would be the signing of Subsidiary
Loan Agreements between MOF and the five PEFs for undertaking of the
respective project components, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(para. 4.7(c)).
6.5       Conditions of disbursement would bet  (a) for the Gresik
Restructuring Component that a contract for the provision of the required
natural gas to Gresik has been executed on behalf of rresik and PERTAMINA and
found satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.20); and (b) for subprojects under the
Optimization Component and for the Gresik modernization subproject that the
appraisal report and the Environmental Impact Assessment for these investments
by each PFE will have been found satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.7(e)).
6.6       With the above agreements and understandings reached at
negotiations, the proposed Project would be suitable for a loan of $221.7
million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for 20 years, including a
grace period of five years, at the Bark's standard variable interest rate.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Pagei 1
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
NAIlONAL DEVELOPMENT PLANNING AGENCY
JAKARTA, INDONESIA
10 October 1990
Mr. Attila Karaosmanoglu
Vice-President
Asia Regional Office
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
USA.
Dear Mr. Vice President:
I.    The Government of Indonesia has requested assistance from the
World Bank to support a program of restructuring in the fertilizer sub
sector. This letter provides infornation on the latest measures taken by the
Government to strengthen the industrial policy framework, particularly as it
affects the sub sector, and on the direction of planned policy actions to be
implemented during Repelita V.
2.    The Government' s main policy objectives in the area of trade and
industry are di-ected to: maintaining a competitive excchange rate; removing
non-tariff barriers; rationalizing tariffs; and simplifying domestic
regulations. To maintain the momentum of ongoing trade and industrial
policy reforms, we intend to continue to employ a comprehensive approach
that will give priority to: (i) removing more non-tariff barriers, especially
those that will have the greatest impact on increasing efficiency and
reducing cost; (ii) rationalizing tariffs further to lower the average tariff
level and its dispersion; (iii) further reducing the remaining constraints on
investment; and (iv) reviewing a number of other regulations, with a view
to eliminate those that no longer serve a positive purpose or have the effect
of raising production costs.



- 45 -                      ANWE 1I
Page 2
3.    These initiatives are being supported by a comprehensive reform of
financial sector policies, with the objectives of increasing resource
mobilization, improving efficiency and lowering costs in financial
intermediation, and ensuring greater availability of term funds for
investment. The Government is also committed to promoting technological
upgrading and strengthening technical and managerial capabilities in the
industrial sector.
4.    During the past two decades, the fertilizer industry has achieved
impressive result. Nevertheless, there remain problems that need to be
overcome in order to ensure a sustained development of this industry. The
problems relate, among others, to how to improve the currently used
technology, pricing of fertilizer product (at farmgate and ex-factory levels)
and feedstock and the distribution and marketing system. The Government
has already taken steps and will continue to take furither measures to ensure
an economically more efficient fertilizer industry. This objective will be
supported under the Proposed fertilizer project through investments in new
production facilities, optimization of existing plants, and studies which will
address marketing, distribution, and environmental issues.
5.    With regard to the pricing of fertilizer products, the Government
has begun and will continue to adjust these prices so that they will gradually
reflect economic prices. A major outcome of this adjustment wiil be the
gradual elimination of the associated subsidy payments from the
Government budget.
6.    With regard to the marketing and distribution system, the
L-overnment will continue to make efforts to improve efficiency of the
existing system and service to farmers. Thus, a study will be prepared for
conmletdon before the end of November 1991, to develop recommendations
and appropriate timing for introducing increased competition at wholesale
and retail levels.
7.    The Government is concerned about the environmental impact of
industrial activities, including fertilizer enterprises, and has adopted
comprehensive legislation for environmental protection. In this regard a
special study in conjunction with the proposed ferdlizer project will also be



ANNEX 1
- 46 -                   Page 3
undisgtakn, for completion before the end of November 1991, to asss the
environmental impact of the fertilizer industry. The study will also review
the appropriateness of environmental standards in line with existing
regulations, in order to recommend an environmental management plan that
would be implemented by ferdlizer enterprises.
8.    To improve the efficiency of the fertilizer industry the Government
will continue to pursue policy reforms in this sector. We consider the
proposed fertilizer project will assist enterprises to respond effectively to
changing policy through the provision of technical and financial support.
The successful implementation of the project should lead to essential gains
in technical, financial and economic efficiency and to proper management
and monitoring of the environmental impact of this important industrial
sub sector.
Your sincerely,
Saleh Aflif
State Ministe for Natonal Development
PlanmninCbarman of BAPMNAS



- 47 -                           ANNEX 2-1
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PP.RJJECT
Historical Growth in Fertilizer ConsumPtion
(thousand tons of product)
Year           Urea        TSP         AS          KC1         Total
1975             676         235          94          34       1,039
1976             686         211         122          24       1,043
1977             962         183         140          69       1,354
1978           1,080         205         155         109       1,549
1979           1,240         268         196         122       1,826
1980           1,776         494         330         123       2,723
1981           2,139         724         282          46       3,191
1982           2,039         713         331          88       3,171
1983           2,381         834         354         179       3,748
1984           2,609         959         408         252       4,228
1985           2,607       1,048         475         290       4,420
1986           2,715       1,165         473         238       4,591
1987           2,686       1,191         553         270       4,700
1988           2,930       1,219         585         496       5,230
1989 (Est)    3,065        1,514         653         635       5,867
Growth Rate (Percentage)
1975/1985       14.5        16.1        17.6        23.9        15.6
1980/1985        8.0        16.2         7.6        18.7        10.2
1984/1989        3.3         9.6         9.9        20.3         6.8
AS5IE
March 1990



- 48 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Projected Growth in Fertilizer Consumption
(thousand tons of product)
Year                Urea         TSP           AS           KC1         Total
A. Revision (ii) of Second National Fertilizer Study
1988 (actual)      3,172        1,323           584          373        5,452
1989               3,400        1,438           639          405        5.882
1990               3,642        1,562           699          439        6,342
1991               3,702        1,698           765          477        6,642
1992               4,180        1,844           837          518        7,379
1993               4,476        2,004           916          563        7,959
1994               4,793        2,177        1,002           594        8,566
1995               5,132        2,366        1,095           664        9,257
Growth Rate (Percentage)
1988/1995            7.1          8.7           9.4          8.6          7.9
B. Estimates of the Ministry of Industry
1989/90            3,508        1,600           680
1990/91            3,765        1,739           744
1991/92            4,042        1,889           814
1992/93            4,339        2,053           890
1993/94            4,657        2,230           974
1994/95            4,913        2,342        1,067
1995/96            5,183        2,459        1,166
1996/97            5.468        2,582        1,275
1997/98            5,769        2,711        1,395
1998/99            6,087        2,847        1,526
1999/2000          6.422        2,989        1,670
Growth Rate (Percentage)
Repelita V          7.34         8.66          9.40
Repelita VI         5.50          5.00         9.40



- 49 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 2
C. Staff Appraisal Report Proiections
1988 (Actual)      2,930        1,219           585          496        5,230
1989 (Est)         3,065        1,514           653          635        5,867
1990               3,190        1,630           705          690        6,215
1995               3,770        2,210        1,010           980        7,970
2000               4,370        2,960        1,450         1,410       10,190
Growth Rate (Percentage)
198911995            3.5          6.5           7.5          7,5          5.2
1995/2000            3.0          6.0           7.0          7.0          5.0
AS5IE
March 1990



- 50 -
ANNEX 2-3
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Flow of Fertilizers in Marketing System
Urea             Own Urea           TSP/AS              Imported
Producers          Production        Producer           Fertilizers
Kaltim, AAF,             at
Iskander Muda          Pusri            Petrokimia         TSP, Potash
Kujang                                 Gresik
LINE I
LINE II  Provincial        Marketing Unit                 1. Bulk Terminal
Level                PUSRI                      2. Main Ports
LINE III  Kabupatan                                       (Inland Supply
Level             Distributors                    Warehouse)
Government              
Agencies                                    KUDS
and Private
Companies
LINE IV
Village                                       KUD
Level
Village Kiosk
Estates                   r
Consumers            and                          Farmers
Plantations
AS5IE
March 1990



- 51 -                          ANNEX 2-4
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Breakdown of Ex-Factory Urea Prices
(Rp per ton)
Pusri     Kujang      PIM       Kaltim
A. Production (in '000 tons)
Bulk Urea                   800.7                 545.0    1,209.7
Bagged Urea                  579.3     570.0       25.0       340.0
B. Variable Costs
Natural Gas                63,048    60,131    58,683        63,928
Catalysts & Chemicals        2,969     4,317      3,561       2,745
C. Fixed Costs
Salaries & Wages           15,850    13,726    16,640        14,072
Spares& Maintenance         8,722      6,181      6,545       8,544
Insurance                   1,688      1,989      2,323       2,243
Admin. Overheads             3,045     4,575      5,395       5,846
Other Costs                    570     1,107      2,781       2,997
D.  Production Cost - Bulk Urea   95,892    92,026    95,928    100,375
E.  Capital related Costs
Depreciaton                15,910    19,492    23,858        33,130
Interest                    1,233      1,211    24,657        9,482
F.  Total Cost of Production       113,035   112,729   144,443    142,987
G.  Cost of Bagging                 13,273    13,280    13,550       13,450
H. Cost of Production
Bulk Urea                 113,035   112,729   144,443    142,987
Bagged Urea               126,308   126,009   157,993    156,437
AS5IE
March 1990



- 52 -                         ANNEX 2-5
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Breakdown of Ex-Factory TSP/AS Prices
(Rp per ton)
TSP                 AS
A. Production (in '000 tons)
Bagged TSP/AS                        1,200                600
B. Variable Costs
Phosphoric Acid                   262,339
Rock Phosphate                      54,789
LSFO                                   195             51,795
Ammonia (Kaltim)                                       37,830
Sulfur                                                 63,842
Catalysts & Chemicals                  550              6,223
Electricity                          4,576              1,500
Others                               4,073                211
C.  Fixed Costs
Salaries & Wages                     8,983             14,571
Spares & Maintenance                 6,824             14,682
Insurance                              825                978
Admin. Overheads                     1,299              1,748
Other Costs                            485                576
D. Capital related Costs
Depreciaton                          7,557              9,475
Interest                            15,470              9,727
E.  Total Cost of Production                 367,965            213,158
F.  Cost of Bagging                           13,025             13,300
H.  Cost of Production (Bagged)              380,990            226,458
AS5IE
March 1990
I



- 53 -
A3NNEX 2-0
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Fertilizer Subsidies By Company - 1988
Average based on 1988 Prices
Uresa                TSP     AS  Potash
PUSRI  Kujang  Kaltim  AAF  PIM    Gresik    Import  Total
A. 1988 Dom. Sales ('000 tons)                  1,040     481      814   120  468  1,220  698    664   6,298
B. Prices (Rp.000 per ton)
1. Ex-Fuctory excluding Profit                 105     118     147   242  1J9    S07  211    204
2. Profit to Producers                           6       6        6          6       6    6
3. Form Gate Price                             143     143      143   143  143    146  143    142
4. Marketing Costs                              87      46      100    98   98      67   58    e6
5. Pusri marketing Overhead                      1       1        1     1    1       1    1      1
6. Border Price (USS/mt)                       146     146      146   146  146    180   76    122
7. Border Price (Rp.000/mt)                   242     242      242   242  242    801  126    204
C. Production Subsidy - Econ.
1. Per ton Subsidy (Rp.000)   (81+.2-87)   (182)   (119)    (90)    -  (98)    11   91          -
2. Ratio as X                   (81.2)/B)      46      61       es     -   69    104  172       -
3. Annual Subsidy in Rp.Bill.  (A x C1)       (187)    (67)    (78)    -  (46)    14   68        _   (246)
D. Farmgate Subsidy - Econ.
1. Econ. Del. Cost (Rp'000)    (87.84.65)    830       288     348   841  886    369  184    270
2. Per ton Subsidy (Rp.000)                   197     146      200   198  198    224   41    128
S. Annual Subsidy in Rp.Bill   (A x D2)        195      70      168    24   90    278   24      72     811
E. Total Budgetary Subsidy
1. Del. Cost In Rp.'O0O/te      814B2+B4+69  198       169     253   841  288    380  276    270
2. Retail Price in Rp.OOO/te  I8              143     148      148   148  148    146  148    142
3. Per ton Subsidy in Re'O00   E1-E2            65      26      110   198   96    286  132    128
4. Annual Subsidy in Rp.Bt!l.  (A x ES)         67      12       90    24   46    287   77      72     664
----------- Ur-s --------         Local Local  KCI    Total
TSP    AS
Total Subsidy excl. transfers etc.                          228                 287      77     72    664
Gas Subsidy In Rp.Bil1.                                       69                                        69
Return Foregone in Rp.Bill.                                   47                   6      1             68
Total Subsidy Other than taxes
and transfers                                          U88                 293      78     72    776
ASSIE
March 1990



- 54 -
ANNEX 2-7
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Fertilizer Substdies By Comnany - 1989
Average based on 1989 Prices
Urea                TSP   AS   TSP    Potash
PUSRI  Kujang  Kaltim  AAF  PIM   Gre-Ik   Import  Import  Total
A. 1989 Dom. Sales ('000 tons)               1,117   440      928   120   460 1,200  653  314         S65   6,867
B. Prices (Rp.'O0O per ton)
1. Ex-Factory jxcluding Profit              118   126      146   261   146  J81  226  342          227
2. Profit to Producers                        6     6        6     6      6     6
3. Farm Cate Price                          169   169      169   169   169   188  169  188         176
4. Marketing Costs                           85    46       96    96   106    73   67   78          42
S. Pusri marketing Overhead                   1     1        1      1     1      1    1    1         1
6. Border Price (US/mt)                    146   146      145   146   146   190   85  190         128
7. Border Price (Rp.'000/mt)                261   261      261   261   261   842  163  842         227
C. Production Subsidy - Econ.
1. Per ton Subsidy (Rp.'00O) (81+82-87) (138) (180)  (110)    -   (111)   44   78   -                -
2. Ratio as %                  (81+82)/B7   47    50        58    -      5.   118  151   -           -
g. Annual Subsidy in Rp.Bill. (A x C1)  (154)  (67)   (102)   -    (61)   58   61   -                -    (261)
D. Farmgate Subsidy - Econ.
1. Econ. Del. Cost (Rp'000)  (9784+.86)  847   307         368   857   867   416  211  416         270
2. Per ton Subsidy (Rp.000)                178   138      189   188   198   228   42  228          94
3. Annual Subsidy in Rp.8ill  (A x D2)   199    e1         176    23    91   274   27   72          SO     982
E. Total Budgetary Subsidy
1. Del. Cost in Rp.000/te   81+82+94+86 209   177         248   357   268   460  289  416         270
2. Retail Price in Rp.'000/te 83                  169      169   169   169   169  188  169         188      176
3. Per ton Subsidy in Re'000  E1-E2                40        8    79   188    87  272  120         228       94
4. Annual Subsidy in Rp.Bill. (A x ES)    46        4       78    28    40   827   78   72          6o      721
----------- Urea -----------)Local Local  Imp.  KCI  Total
TSP    AS   TSP
Total Subsidy excl. transfers etc.                         184               827    78    72    60    721
Gas Subsidy in Rp.Bill.                                     62                                           62
Return Foregone in Rp.Bill.                                 49                 6      1                  56
Total Subsidy Other than taxes
and transfers                                        295                838    79    72    60    888
AS6IE
March 1990



- 55 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 1 ot a
INDtONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Fertilizer Subsidiea 8Y Commany - 1990
Average based on 1989 *nd Prices
Ures                  TSP    AS   TSP    Potashi
PUSRI  Kujang  Keltim  AAF  PIM    Oresik    Import  Import  Total
A. 1990 Dom. Sales ('000 tons)                   1,400   640    1,082   120  460  1,220   674   181    68a         6,800
B. Prices (Rp.'000 per ton)
1. Ex-Factory excluding Profit                  117   126       145   261  144    881   228   342        227
2. Profit to Producers                            6     6         6           6      6      5
3. Farm Gate Price                              186   185       185   186  16    210   186   210        210
4. Marketing Costs                               84    46        94    95  110      81    S6    61        89
6. Pusri marketing Overhead                       1      1        1      1    1      1      1     1        1
8. Border Price (US/mt)                        146   146       146   146  145    190    85   190        126
7. Border Price (Rp.000/mt)                    261   261       261   281  281    842   168   842        227
C. Production Subsidy
1. Per ton Subsidy (Rp. 000)  (81+82-97)    (189) (180)    (111)   -  (112)    44    78           -        -
2. Ratio as %                   (B1 B2)/97       47    SO        67    -    57    118   161       -        -
3. Annual Subsidy in Rp.1111. (A x C1)         (195)  (70)    (120)   -   (50)    64    53        -        -      (828)
D. Farmgate Subsidy
1. Econ. Del. Cost (RpOOO)   (97+.8456)        848   807       8S6    867  872   406   211   405        267
2. Per ton Subsidy (Rp.'O00)                    161   122       171    172  197   195    26   196         57
a. Annual Subsidy in Rp.8111  (A x D2)          225    66       186     21   84   238    18    36         86      908
E. Total Budgetary Subsidy
1. Del. Cost in Rp.'OOO/te    B1.929445B6    207   177          246    867  260   449   289   406        267
2. Retail Price in Rp.000/te 98                186   185       185    186  186   210   186   210        210
3. Per ton Subsidy in Re'000  E1-E2              22    (8)       60    172   76   289   104   196         67
4. Annual Subsidy in Rp.B1il. (A x Ea)           81    (4)       es      21   84   291    70    as        38       578
----------- Ure  ----------->  Local  Local  Imp.  KCI  Total
TSP    AS   TSP
Total Subsidy excl. trsnsfers etc.                         146                 291    70    8S       a8   678
Gas Subsidy in Rp.Bill.                                     78                                             73
Return Foregone in Rp.Bill.                                 58                   6      1                  84
Total Subsidy Other than taxes
and transfers                                        276                  297    71    86      S8   716
AS6IE
March 1990



- 56 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 2 of 3
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Fertilizer Subsidy - Estimate for 1990
Assumptions used in the Estimates
1.        The subsidy estimates have been prepared using the following
assumptions to provide the base for testing the impact of various options on
the subsidy level. The estimates do not include subsidy on products other
than the four considered, taxes and transfers to next year and from previous
years.
2.        The fertilizer consumption in 1990 has been assumed to be the same
as the GOI estimates for the agricultural year 1989-90 i.e., a total of 6,300
thousand product tons, consisting of 3,592 thousand tons of urea, 1,401
thousand tons of TSP, 674 thousand tons of ammonium sulphate ard 633 thousand
tons of potash. In view of the measures being adopted by the GOI to improve
fertilizer use efficiency, the actual consumption could be somewhat lower.
3.        The ex-factory prices of the domestically produced fertilizers have
been assumed to remain at the present level, effective from January 1, 1989
even though these are due for revision from January 1, 1990. 'An appropriate
part of the deliveries has been assumed to be bagged nd the rest in bulk. The
ex-factory price for each plant has been estimated based on weighted average
of bagged and bulk supplies.
4.        The profit margin of Rp 5,000 per ton available to the producers has
been added as a separate line item under "Prices' for all domestic supplies
except from Aceh.
5.        Supplies from Aceh are assumed to be available at projected 1990
urea price. Imported supplies of TSP and potash are assumed to be available
at landed cost even though a part of the potash supplies are obtained with
grant funds.
6.        The border prices are based on estimates of projected 1990
international prices, on FOB basis for urea and on landed cost basis for TSP,
ammonium sulphate and potash. TSP border prices used are somewhat higher than
the present likely delivered cost from US Gulf, but the Indonesian standards
on water solubility require import of higher water solubility material from
other sources at a higher price. The sole purpose of using the border prices
has been to split the total subsidy into production and farmgate subsidies and
the assumed values do not have any impact on the size of the total budgetary
subsidy except in the case of imports.
7.        Farmgate prices are assumed to remain at the present levels of Rp
185,000 per ton of urea and ammonium sulphate and Rp 210,000 per ton TSP and
potash, which have been effective from October 1989. These prices are due for
revision from October 1990.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 3 of 3
8.        Marketing and distribution costs are assumed to remain at the
present levels effective from April 1, 1989. An amount of Rp 1,100 per ton of
product sold has been added as a separate line item to cover payment to Pusri
towards marketing margin.
9.        Gas subsidy has been calculated on the basis of an average of 35
million BTU average gas consumption per ton of urea and assuming that the
average economic value of natural gas in Indonesia is about $1.60 per million
BTU against the present cost of $1.00.
10.       The return foregone has been calculated at 15 percent on the
normative equity base of a typical plant of average vintage at Rp 21,600 per
ton of urea, Rp 10,000 per ton of TSP and Rp 6,000 per ton of ammonium
sulphate less Rp 5,000 per ton now provided to the producers.
AS5IE
March 1990



- 58 -
ANNEX 2-9
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTtMING PROJECT
Fertilizer Production Capacity
('000 tons per year)
1980  1981  1982  1988  1984  1985  1988  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1m    1994  199
A. Urea
Pusri I              100   100   100   100   100   100   100
Pusri lb                                                                                                      670   670
Pusr; II            0aso  8ao   8so   8so   8so   aso  8so  a8o   a8o   8o   9so   8so   880   670   670   570
Pusri III            5T0   670   670   570   670   670   670   670   570   670   670   670   670   670   570   670
Pusri IV             670   570   670   670   670   670   570   670   670   670   570   670   670   670   670   570
Total Pusri        1,820 1,620 1,620 1,620 1,620 1,820 1,620 1,520 1,520 1,520 1,520 1,520 1,520 1,710 2,280 2,280
Kaltim I                                      570   570   570   670   670   670   670   670   670   681   681   631
Kaltim II                                     670   570   670   570   570   670   670   670   670   670   670   670
Kaltim III                                                                    570   670   670   670   670   670   670
Total Keltim                                1,140 1,140 1,140 1,140 1,140 1,710 1,710 1,710 1,710 1,771 1,771 1,771
Kujang I             570   570   670   670   670   670   670   670   670   670   670   670   570   670   670   570
Kujang II                                                                                                     670   670
Total Kujang         670   670   670   570   670   670   670   670   570   670   670   670   670   670   670 1,140
Isker.aar Mud.                          670   670   670   670   570   670   670   670   670   670   570   670   670
Aceh                          570   670   670   670   670   670   650   860   860   860   860   650   650
Gresik                                                                                              460   460
Total Urea       2.190 2.190 2.190 2.760 4.470 4.470 4.470 4,870 4.870 6.020 6.020 6,020 6.020 6.271 6.401 6.871
8.  Triple Suparphosphate (TSP)
Gres k I-            500   500   500   500   500   500   600   600   60    600   60    60 600          600   600   600
Gresik II                                     S00   500  6So   6oo   6oo   6oo   6oo   6oo   60o   6oo   6oo   600
Total TSP            500  500   600   500 L.O00  1.000 1.200 1.200 1.200 1.200 1.200 1,200 1.200 1.200 1.200 1.200
C. Ammonium Sulfate (AS)
Greslk I             200   200   200   200   200   200   200   200   200   200   200   200   200   200   200    200
Grestk II                                     260   260   260   260   250   250   260   250   260   260   260    250
Gresik III                                                 200   200   200   200   200   200   200   200   200    200
Total AS             200   200   200   200   450   450   650   650   650   650   650   650   650   650  860    650
ASSIE
March 1990



- 59                                        ANNEX 2-10
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Expgrts of Amseeonis and Urea
('000 tons)
1982       1988      1984       1936      1096        1967            1988
A. Ammonia
Pusri                                                                                 16.0             NA
Kujang
Kaltim                                             168.2       197.6    264.4       225.6              NA
PIM
Acesh                                                0.8         1.6       1.0        1.2             NA
Tota                                         164.0       199.2    216.4       242.6             NA
8. Urea
Pusri                           56.0     254.0      11.0       601.0     760.0      827.0           158.8
Kujang                          20.0      62.0                           217.0        74.0           94.8
KlttAm                                                                    59.8       78.7           216.9
PIM                                                                      104.0      106.0           181.9
Aceah                                              172.2       288.6    296.6       468.8           421.7
Total                     75.0     816.0     188.2       784.6   1,486.9    1,048.0         1,028.0
C. Urea Exports by Country
China                                                          199.1    870.7       841.7
India                                                           21.4    126.0         -
Phillipines                     75.0     160.9      50.0       126.8    286.9       160.2
Mataysea                                  66.2    118.0        165.1      29.4       62.6
Thailand                                   2.2      20.0        69.7     176.7      189.5          NA
Singapore                                 19.4                  80.6    106.4        28.8
Vietnam                                                         85.9     165.0       98.1
Others                                    77.8       0.2        86.8    288.6       217.8
Total                             76.0    816.0      1JB.2       784.6   1,486.9   1,048.0
ASSIE
March 1990



- 60 -
ANNEX 2-11
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Fertilizer Production Post ond Prolactod
('000 tons per year)
1982  1988  1984  1985  1986  1987  1088  1989  190  1991  1M    1998  1994  1m
A. Urea
Puort                  1,480 1,621 1,688 1,677 1,528 1,480 1,881 1,445 1,445 1,446 1,445 1,626 2,082 2,160
Kaltim                               141   400   580   858 1,009 1,454 1,611 1,540 1,540 1,540 1,60 1,650
KuJ sng                  514   578   s7s  494  646  S52   582   542   542   542   U42   542   542   618
Iakender Muds                              566  687   589   602   542   542   542   542   542   642  542
Aesh                            68   549   548   629   572   576  618   618   618   618   618   618  6S1
Orealk                                                                                            280   410
Total Urea             1,944 2,265  2,906 8,586 4,020 4,046 4,149 4,601 4,658 4,687 4,687 4,868 5,664 6,898
8. TrIple SuporphosDhote             577   784 1,002 1,007 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200
C. Amonium Sulfate                   210   208   804   475   578   674   574  650   660   650   660  e60   650  060
ASSIE
March 1990
I



- 61 -
ANNEX 3-A
Page 1
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
FERTILIZER MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION STUDlES
Ternms of Reference
A. Background
Consumption
1.        Agriculture is an important part of the Indonesian economy and its
performance in recent years has been impressive. Agriculture output during
the past 15 years has grown almost twice as fast as the population. The
government has developed policies to promote food self-sufficiency, including
subsidies for key inputs such as fertilizer and rural infrastructure
Fertilizer consumption in 1987 totaled 2.3 million nutrient tons versus only
0.6 million tons ten years previously. By keeping farm fertilizer prices low
and increasing '.he supply of fertilizer, Indonesia has been successful in
promoting food self-sufficiency, particularly in rice. However, the subsidy
system has contributed to an increasing budgetary deficit as well as to
inefficiencies in the fertilizer industry.
Location and Capacity of Production Units
2.        Production of fertilizer in Indonesia occurs at six locations
throughout the country. The end product from five of these production sites
is urea (a total of about 4.3 million tpy). A smaller amount of ammonia is
also shipped from the R!kltim site. The sixth site produces triple
superphosphate (TSP) ar-d ammonium sulfate (AS); about 1.2 million tpy and 0.65
million tpy, respectively. A summary of the production facilities is given in
Table 1.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3-A
Page 2
Table 1: INDONESIAN FERTILIZER PRODUCTION UNITS
Estimated
General                           Number of        annual
Production site   location       Type of plant        plants         capacity
('000 mtpy)
Asean Aceh       North Sumatra  Ammonia/urea            1           650 urea
Iskandar Muda    North Sumatra  Ammonia/urea            1           570 urea
PUSRI            South Sumatra  Ammonia/urea            3 /a     1,520 urea
Kujang           West Java       Ammonia/urea           1           570 urea
Kaltim           Kalimantan      Ammonia/urea           3           330 ammonia
1,710 urea
Gresik           East Java       Ammonia/urea /b        1            -- ammonia/c
TSP                    2        1,200 TSP
AS                     3          650 AS
/a  Does not include PUSRI I, which is being phased out.
lb Urea plant shut down.
/c  Quantity of ammonia uncertain.  All is converted to AS.
Marketing and Distribution
3.        The disLribution of fertilizer has been the responsibility of PUSRI,
one of the country's largest nitrogenous fertilizer producers.  Since 1988,
the cooperatives (KUDs) handle all of the retail sales. Until 1988
fertilizers were sold to farmers at a single fixed price for all products.
Price differentiation according to nutrient content has been recognized as
desirable, but so far only modest changes in value by nutrient have been
introduced. Prices are still uniform (freight equalized) throughout the
country. Although only 26 percent of the fertilizer product tons are TSP, 46
percent of the cost of the subsidy nationwide is for TSP. The situation with
urea is reversed. Undoubtedly, the similar price for all fertilizers results
in a different product mix than what market forces would dictate. Exports
from the nitrogen industry have been quite successful in improving industrial
perforn,aace; the high cost of TSP and AS imports have offset many of the
benefits achieved by the nitrogen industry. However, two nitrogen companies,
PUSRI and Kujang, are among the lowest-cost producers in the world, while
Kaltim, Asean Aceh and Iskandar Muda are higher-cost producers due to various
conditions. The cost of delivering fertilizers to the farmers is high
compared with other developing countries (in part because of geography) and
contributes to the cost of subsidies. Steps such as allowing Kujang *nd
Gresik, which are well situated, to distribute fertilizer could reduce
distribution costs. The costs of subsidies and whether they should be
completely or partially eliminated in some or all locations and for some or
all products are major issues. Closely related issues are how much impact
prices would have in changing the product mix and how to reduce the high costs
of distribution. Should market forces dictate prices, or should prices be set
to encourage use of certain products? The solution to these issues is comple:x



- 63 -
ANNEX 3-A
Page 3
because of the Government's objectives to maintain food self-sufficiency and
maintain farm income.
4.        In addition to the basic production units shown in Table 1, a fully
integrated, largely state-owned physical distribution system is used to move
all products from the factory to the farm. The present system for urea is
primarily based on ocean-going bulk carriers with a capacity of 7,500 tons
each. These bulk carriers deliver fertilizer to eight strategically located
bagging stations where the fertilizer is bagged and dispatched by rail and
truck to inland storage and distribution depots and then sent to rail delivers
and onward to individual farmers (see Map). The same basic system is used for
TSP and AS, with the exception that all bagging of these products occurs at
the oroduction site (Gresik) and the bulk carriers are not used.
Summary of Principal Issues
5.        The principal issues in fertilizer marketing and distribution are:
1. High distribution cost.
2.  Impact of subsidy removal on demand and cost to government.
3. Pricing policy and product mix.
4. Use of imports versus domestic production
5. Controlled versus free marketing.
6.  Appropriate role of government and private sector.
B.  Terms of Reference:  Distribution
Objectives
6.        The main objectives of the distribution study are to (a) prepare an
update of the 1986 PUSRI/IFDC study; (d) prepare an assesjment of the current
distribution system and the costs by component; (c) prepare a ten year
forecast of demand and supply; and (d) assess any physical changes needed in
the distribution network over the next ten years.
Detailed Terms of Reference
7.        PUSRI should prepare a concise update of the 1986 PUSRI/IFDC
fertilizer distribution study that would describe and assess in detail (a) the
present system for distribution of each area; (b) the ownership and operation
of each component of the network; and (c) the roles of the private sector,
cooperatives, and the Ministry of Agriculture.
8.        The update should also include a detailed analysis of how exports
are handled, including costs, from each factory. Issues should be addressed
such as how to minimize export earnings and how to minimize transport costs,
including the links with domestic distribution. Specifically, can a system
for "product swap" be arranged that would improve efficiency and maintain each



- 64 -
ANNEX 3-A
Page 4
company's present incentive to maximize profits through export sales linked to
high production efficiency?
9.        A ten year supply/demand forecast should be prepared that takes into
account the proposed removal of subsidies, recent consumption trends,
agricultural information such as cropping patterns, land use and availability,
irrigation, manEgement, etc. The supply forecast should also take into
account recent shifts in production toward the market areas, plus a realistic
assessment of the impact of supergranular urea and other product changes on
the demand pattern.
10.       An assessment should be made of the future requirements in the
distribution network based on the above supply/demand forecast and assessment
of present system.
Personal Requirements and Costs of the Study
11.       The distribution study would be undertaken by P.T. PUSRI, at its own
cost.
C. Terms of Reference: Marketing
objectives
12.       The main objectives of the marketing study are to (a) appraise the
present fertilizer marketing system in Indonesia for determining
inefficiencies and constraints; (d) compare it with marketing systems in other
countries that may provide useful guidelines for improvement (c) recommend a
marketing system(s) that will make the appropriate fertilizers available on a
timely basis to farmers in the most cost-effective manner; (d) determine the
advantages of having a competitive fertilizer marketing system; and (e)
determine the infrastructure needs required for the recommended fertilizer
marketing system. In addition, the study would assess the impact of changes
in fertilizer prices on use of fertilizer and also analyze the recommended
changes in the appropriate fertilizer mix, including types, specification etc.
13.       A marketing system should be prepared that would (a) promote
competition at wholesale and retail levels and minimize the cost of fertilizer
delivery to the farmer; (b) facilitate the ongoing policy action of subsidy
removal; (c) eliminate the need for administrative controls on storage and
distribution; (d) accommodate the freight equalization policy to the maximum
extent possible: and (e) promote market development for the most appropriate
fertilizers, grades, specifications, etc.
Detailed terms of Reference
14.     Part 1:  Appraisal of present fertilizer marketing system in
Indonesia.
(a) Review of the existing fertilizer demand, utilizing the PUSRI update
of the 1986 PUSRI-IFC Fertilizer Distribution Study (see Section B,
paras. 7-9).



- 65 -
ANNEX 3-A
ISage 5
(i)   Where data permit, assess the trends and patterns of
fertilizer use in Indonesia over the past ten years for each
district by different ecological zones and by crops.
(ii)   Establish demand by seasons and months.
(iii)   Review the current method of demand forecasting used at local
and national levels as identified in the PUSRI update.
(b) Review appropriateness of fertilizers for different crops grown.
(i)   Review fertilizer recommendations against latest fertilizer
research and determine if fertilizer products being used are
the most appropriate ones available.
(ii) Compare nutrient cost at selected retail levels for the major
fertilizers used i.. principal cropping areas.
(iii)   Estimate the economic incentive to farmers for using
fertilizer for majer crops by determining value/cost ratios by
using Indonesia's system of output prices.
(c) Evaluate the current fertilizer pricing policy of the government and
the methodology used in determining:
(i)   product prices;
(ii) nutrient prices;
(iii) marketing cost;
(iv) marketing margins;
(v) subsidy determination and cost to government; and
(vi) buffer stocks.
(d) Review the present fertilizer marketing system and:
(i) identify the marketing organizational structure employed by
PUSRI at all levels incrl.ding private, KUDs (cooperatives),
estates, etc.;
(ii) determine the individual organizations and the role of each,
with special attention to authority, responsibility, and
accountability;
(iii) assess adequacy of the credit system as it relates to
fertilizer sales;
(iv) assess the capability of the key staff in fertilizer
marketing;



- 66 -
ANNEX 3-A
Page 6
(v) assess the operational efficiency of the fertilizer warehouse
and distribution system and determine its ability to serve
retailers, availability of supply, and logistic planning;
(vi)  determine current level of buffer stocks;
(vii) identify the principal constraints to efficient marketing by
categories of marketing function including product pricing,
buffer stocks, distribution, promotion, timeliness, etc.;
(viii)  review the present monitoring system for quality control,
pricing, supply and demand, and market coverage employed by
the government, PUSRI, and other manufacturers, and other
marketing channels; and
(ix)  compare the cost effectiveness of the present marketing and
distribution system with India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh or
other mutually agreed countries.
(e) Prepare an environmental assessment of:
(i) impact of price changes resulting from subsidy removal on
fertilizer use;
(ii)  present and recommended changes in product types and grades
(i.e., PAPR, P205 water solubility in TSP, DAP, NPK, sulfur-
enhanced products);
(iii) product application practices (i.e., urea prill vs. granules).
The consultant should work with the Ministry of Agriculture to develop
a long-term program for monitoring ground water contamination from
fertilizer use.
Part 2: Determining a recommended fertilizer marketing system(s).
(a)  Visit and assess the potential capability of the basic manufacturing
units and other suppliers to market its products.
(b)  Identify the markets each basic unit could potentially serve.
(c)  Identify the marketing channels required to serve the markets.
(d)  Diagram the organizational structure required for each production unit
to carry out the marketing functions.
(e)  Develop a fertilizer pricing plan for the recommended marketing
organization(s) incorporating the government's plan for elimination of
the subsidy over a five-year period:
(i)   factory gate price (uniform, free, or other);
(ii)   transportation (subsidy or actual) cost;



- 67 -
AN4EX 3-A
Page 7
(iii)   warehousing (subsidy or actual); and
(iv)   pricing policy by region (or subregion).
(f) Identify adequacy of credit programs required for fertilizer sales:
(i)   current nonpayment problems; and
(ii)   identify needs for further study.
(g) Determine institutional linkages and the role of each in the new
system:
(i)   role of government;
(ii)   role of private sector;
(iii)   research;
(iv)   Ministry of Agriculture;
(v)   Ministry of Industry; and
(vi)   Ministry of Cooperatives.
(h) Determine government policy and actions necessary for successfully
implementing the new system(s):
(i)   quality control;
(ii)   pricing;
(iii)   supply and demand;
(iv)   market coverage;
(v)   efficiency of manufacturing and marketing; and
(vi)   buffer stocks.
(j) Determine the staff requirements by positions required for each of the
rscommended fertilizer marketing organizations:
(i)   training requirements; and
(ii)   staff cost.
(k) Describe quantitatively the impact of the new recommended fertilizer
marketing system(s) on:
(i)   prices;
(ii)   supply;



- 68 -
ANNEX 3-A
Page 8
(iii)   product mix;
(iv)   fertilizer use;
(v)   crop production; and
(vi)   anticipated marketing cost of new system versus cost of old
system.
(1)  Develop a time-framed plan of action for implementing the recommended
marketing system(s):
(i)   government acceptance;
(ii)   government policy and actions;
(iii)   changeover to new systems;
(iv)   removal of subsidy;
(v)   new pricing policy; and
(vi)   personnel requirements.
Part 3:  The advantage of the recommended fertilizer marketing systems.
(a) Assess the recommended fertilizer marketing system(s) for introducing
and transferring recommended and proven new technologies:
(i)   new and improved fertilizers and product mix, e.g.,
briquetting of urea, nitrogen and phosphate products mixed
with sulfur, and partial acidulated phosphate rock (PAPR); and
(ii)   ability to complement the extension service in advising
farmers and recommended practices.
(b)  Ability of new system(s) to lower fertilizer cost for the farmer and
subsidy cost for the government.
(c)  Ability of new system(s) to mobilize private capital.
(d)  Ability of new system to make the appropriate fertilizers more timely
available to farmers.
(e)  Ability of new system(s) to increase market coverage.
Personnel Requirements and Costs of the Marketing Study
15.     It is estimated that the total cost of the study would amount to
US$400,000, of which US$300,000 would be in foreign exchange. Estimated
personnel and time requirements for the marketing study are shown in Table 2.



- 69 -
ANNEX 3-A
Page 9
Table 2: PERSONNEL AND TIME REQUIREMENTS
National       Field       Report
Expatriates                counterparts      study     preparation     Total
------------(weeks)------------
Marketing specialists:
- Systems                     Same           10            6           16
- Prices                      Same           10            6           16
Agricultural economist          Same           10            4            14
Agronomist                       Same           4            4             8
Engineer                        Same            4            4            8
Total                                38           22           62



- 70 -                           ANNEX 3-B
Page 1
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF FERTILIZER INDUSTRY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Terms of Reference
A. Background
1.        The Government of Indonesia has undertaken a program of
environmental improvement within the country. An extensive system of
regulations has been developed, although there are discrepancies between the
national and local levels. Monitoring and enforcement are also lacking. The
present system requires that an environmental impact assessment (EIA) be
prepared as part of the approval process for any new investment. A major
investment requires a cormprehensive EIA (called an AMDAL) covering all related
and surrounding areas and facilities; a smaller optimization investment
requires a scaled-down, less comprehensive EIA called a PEL.
2.        The fertilizer industry consists of six major products (five
nitrogen, one nitrogen/phosphate) throughout the country. The industry also
produces a variety of industrial chemicals to be covered under this study. A
sunmnary of the production facilities was given in Table 1 of-Annex 9-A. There
is a continuing program of optimization and technology upgrading within the
industry, including an increasing awareness of the importance of environmental
factors. A part of the ongoing optimization program is being supported by the
Bank, including work at five of the six companies. Two full EIAs have been
prepared, and three scaled-down EIAs are under preparation. Local consultants
have developed some capability in the preparation of EIAs.
3.        The work under this assignment will utilize existing material and
undertake additional work as required to develop a comprehensive environmental
improvement program for the fertilizer sector.
B. Terms of Reference
Objectives
4.        The objectives of the assignment involve assisting the Government
and the industry in:
(a)  developing a comprehensive environmental improvement program for the
sector including revised standards;
(b) improving the safety performance of the industry;
(:) evaluating current efforts within the Ministry of Environment (KLH)
and Ministry of Industry (MOI) to improve monitoring and compliance,
including proposals regarding incentives and penaltiea for
enforcement;



- 71 -
ANNEX 3-B
Page 2
(d) identifying additional optimization programs and investments needed
to enable the industry to meet the revised standards;
(e) developing an environmental management program within the
enterprises and the MOI to implement the environmental improvement
program; and
(f) assessing the long-term development prospects for the industry in
regard to environmental impact, land use, resource base,
resettlement, and social issues.
Detailed Terms of Reference
5.        The work program will include:
(a) reviewing existing national and local standards applicable to the
fertilizer industry--on the basis of current technology,
international industry standards and guidelines within selected,
relevant industrial countries, recommend any desired revisions in
Indanesian standards and, if appropriate, a schedule for
implementing those standards;
(b) evaluating the performance and suggesting any improvements in the
institutional requirements of MOI and KLH in managing the EIA
process and the proposed environmental improvement program;
(c) undertaking an air, water, and solid waste generation survey in the
industry to identify the major source of waste, including energy at
each unit within each factory (this survey will include a detailed
material and energy balance for each unit);
(d) identifying and evaluating appropriate steps to minimize waste
generation and maximize recycling to achieve the recommended
effluent star.dards (these steps could include different process
technology, process optimization, and new procedures);
(e) evaluating existing safety programs including analysis of hazardous
materials and handling hazardous emergencies in comparison with
appropriate international standards and propose any upgrading deemed
necessary.
(f)  developing a system for environmental management within the
enterprises nd MOI that would include monitoring and implementation
of the environmental improvement program;
(g) preparing a survey of land use (existing and future) to assess
impact of the industry on surrounding environment, the need for
revegetation and green belts, protection of any critical flora/
faunalhabitat, impact of encroaching urbanization on existing
factories and townships, need for resettlement and its impact, and
making appropriate recommendations;



- 72 -                             ANNEX 3-B
Page 3
(h)  recommending a training program, if desired, to provide for long-
term environmental needs for the sector.
6.        Specific areas for attention under the study include:
(a) storage ureas (ammonia, sulfur, acids, rock, and TSP) to minimize
losses, dust, and gaseous discharge such as F, NH3S;
(b) calcium carbonate, to reassess recycling to cement;
(c)  total F, NO and SO2 air emissions;
(d) metal content in water treatment (Cr. P20.);
(e)  optimizing use of power and natural gas;
(f) alternative products such as lower-grade phosphate and sulfur-
containing products and industrial chemicals; and
(g) any toxic materials used in the industry.
Approach and Implementation
7.        The following team of experts will be required:
(a) three expatriate specialists (one of which would be the team
leader):
(i)  an industrial environmental specialist with specific experience
in phosphatelsulfuric acid industry;
(ii) an industrial environmental specialist with specific experience
in the nitrogen fertilizer industry, including safety;
(iii) an environmental specialist with specific experience in
regulatory systems, institutions, environmental management and
training, land use, and resettlement;
(b) three local consultants with experience in fertilizer industry and
in preparation of EIAs and full knowledge of local environmental
regulations and institutions.
8.        The consultant teRm will prepare a comprehensive long-range
environmental development strategy for the fertilizer industry in Indonesia,
including (a) long-terr. development strategy, (b) revised national
environmental standards, (c) specific investments and other measures needed to
achieve these standards, (d) upgraded safety program, (e) management system
for implementing the recommended environmental programs, and (f) a monitoring
system to assess progress.
9.        A three-stage approach is suggested.  In the first stage, the
consultant team leader should prepare a detailed work program and a list of
international and local reference material to be used as a basis for the work.



- 73 -
ANNEX 3-B
Page. 4
The team leader would undertake a short visit to Indonesia to agree with MOI
on the selection of the local consultants that will form part of the team.
The team leader should prepare a detailed questionnaire to be given to each
enterprise before the second stage. MOI will also designate its environmental
support staff during this time, who will come from the fertilizer companies
concerned.
10.       The second stage will include a field visit of about eight weeks, to
work with MOI, KLH, and the fertilizer enterprises in preparing the evaluation
and recomrendations concerning environmental improvement in the industry,
including and interim report to be submitted to the Government and the Bank
before leaving Indonesia. That report would include a specific program to be
agreed within Indonesia over the following three months by the relevant
Indonesian entities. An action program would also be included, which the
Indonesia authorities could begin implementing immediately. The Bank would
submit its comments on the draft interim report to Government within one
month.
11.       The third stage would include a three-week visit to Indonesia, after
an interval of about three months, to assess progress and prepare an updated
analysis and recommendations, as well as to complete a long-range plan for
implementing the various recommendations made. Following this final mission,
a final report should be submitted to Government and the Bank within three
months.
12.       The phased approach will require an elapsed time of about 9 months
to complete, including report writing, and would involve about 25 man-months
of external consultant time plus about _  man-months of local consultants,
plus travel expenses, plus report writing. The total budget is estimated at
US$470,000, as shown below.



- 74 -
ANNEX 3-B
Page 5
ESTIMATED COST (US$)
First and Second Phases
- External Consultants
(15 man-months)                                       200,000
- Local Consultants
(12 man-months)                                        45,000
- Travel
Local                                                   10,000
Foreign                                                 20,000
Subtotal                                    265,000
Third Phase
- External Consultants
(8 man-months)                                        110,000
- Local Consultants
(6 man-months)                                         25,000
- Travel
Foreign                                                 10,000
- Report writing                                           20,000
Subtotal                                    175,000
Contingencies                                              30,000
Total                                       470,000
Summary
Local      Foreign      Total
80,000     390,000     470,000



- .75 -
ANNEX 3-B
Attachment
Page 1
PRODUCTION TECHNOLOGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
Production Technology
1.        Ammonia/Urea.  The ammonialurea plants utilize a mixture of process
technologies including, but not limited to, H.W. Kellogg (United States),
Lurgi (Germany), Haldor Topsoe (Denmark), Mitsui Toatsu (Japan), and
Stamicarbon (Netherlands). Natural gas is the common fuel and feedstock;
however, the ammonia plant in the Gresik complex is based on gasification of
low sulfur fuel oil using technology supplied by B.P.M./Shell (Netherlands).
The ammonia/urea unit at Gresik is due to be replaced with anew, large-scale
unit (1,350 tpd ammonia/1,400 tpd urea) based on natural gas.
2.        With the exception of one small (350 tpd) unit at the PUSRI site
(PUSRI I), all urea is prilled. The PUSRI I unit was retrofitted with
granulation capability in 1979; however, the granulation unit is currently not
being operated, and the entire PUSRI I unit is either shut down or in the
process of being phased out. PUSRI I is expected to be replaced with a new
unit (PUSRI V) tentatively scheduled for completion in 1992.
3.        TSP and AS.  Tbs Gresik facility is dedicated to the production of
TSP and AS. However, within thL cemplex, a large number of intermediate
process units based on a variety of technologies exists including (1) ammonia
(a mix of at least four technologies), (2) sulfuric acid (Monsanto),
(3) phosphoric acid (Nissan), (4) gypsum conversion to AS and chalk
(Merseberg), (5) AS by direct neutralization (two units), (6) granular TSP
based on stream granulation of run-of-pile material (Chimico/Spie
Batignolles). In total, process technologies from approximately six countries
are represented in the major production units at the Gresik site.
Levels (Generation) of Technology
4.        Indonesia's fertilizer industry has evolved over a period of about
25 years, beginning with the formation of Gresik and PUSRI I in the mid-1960s
but most of the plants came onstream after the mid-1970s. The early plants
(PUSRI I and II and Gresik) were very small by today's standards, having a
capacity equivalent to only about 100,000-300,000 tpy urea. The Gresik plant
produced even less urea because much of the ammonia discharged from the once-
through or partial recycle urea plant was used to produce AS.
5.        Today, Indonesia produces about 5.0 million tons of urea, 1.2
million tons of TSP, and 0.65 million tons of AS. This growth in capacity has
also been accompanied by several improvements in the process technology,
making the latter plants more energy efficient and less polluting than the
earlier units. Furthermore, retrofitting of certain process units (for
example, the ammonia converter) to improve the operating efficiency of some of
the older plants has occurred or is under consideration. The conversion of
waste phosphogypsum from the Gresik phosphoric acid unit to AS is another
example of innovations that have occurred over the years.



- 76 -                              ANNEX 3-B
Attachment
Page 2
Potential Sources of Pollution
6.        The fertilizer industry of Indonesia is quite representative of the
industry worldwide because it is basic in nitrogen production and, except for
not mining phosphate rock, in phosphate fertilizer production. Potash, if
needed, is imported in the finished form. Potash may also be used at the
Gresik facility as an intermediate to produce certain NPK products; however,
this is currently not done.
7.        The following is a summary of the major effluents (pollutants) that
may be discharged into the environment by the Indonesian fertilizer industry:
Production Unit(s)                  Potential Effluents (Pollutants)
Nitrogen complex                    Thermal (in cooling water)
Ammonia                           Ammonia
Urea                              Sulfur particulate
Sulfur compounds
Nitrogen oxides
Zinc oxide (desulfurization)
Waste catalyst
Methanol
Carbon monoxide
Carbon dioxide
Oil (compressors)
Miscellaneous hydrocarbons
Particulate (primary reformer)
Urea particulate (prill tower)
Various (due to process leaks)
Plant site rainwater runoff
Phosphate complex                   Thermal (in cooling water)
(Gresik only)                      Sulfur particulate
Sulfuric acid                     Sulfur oxides
Phosphoric acid                   Fluorine
TSP                               Ammonia
AS                                Waste catalyst
Particulate (phosphate rock,
sulfur, TSP, AS)
Gypsum stack runoff and
particulate
Heavy metals
Radon
Various (due to process leaks
Plant site rainwater runoff
In addition, some pollution in the form of dust, spillage, and rainwater
runoff is associated with the physical distribution system (plants, bagging
stations, and warehouses) and the raw material unloading operations at Gresik.



- 77 -                                ANNEX 3-B
Attachment
Page 3
8.        On the basis of the foregoing profile and a preliminary assessment
of work, the following major issues should be considered.
Issue 1. RELEVANCE OF EXISTING OR PROPOSED ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY STANDARDS
(NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL) AS INFLUENCED BY (1) THE LOCATION OF THE PRODUCTION
FACILITY, (2) TEH  'YPES OF POLLUTION EMITTED, AND (3) THE INTERNATIONAL
STANDARDS.
To illustrate, the Kujang urea and the Gresik TSP/AS facilities are located in
densely populated or intensively cultivated agricultural areas, while the
other four nitrogen facilities are located in areas more remote from major
population centers. Should the environmental quality standards take
population density, plant location, type of process (nature of effluents), and
international standards into consideration?
Issue 2. DIVERSITY OF AGE (GENERATION) OF PROCESS TECHNOLOGY USED AT THE
VARIOUS PRODUCTION SITES.
The wide diversity and age (old versus state-of-the-art) of technology used in
Indonesia, together with the large number of intermediate process plants
(steps) within a given production complex, will have major impact on the scope
of the plant survey activity and on the formulation of an investment strategy
that will bring the units into compliance with standards that are ultimately
formulated. Should the survey work be limited to only those plants that are
not expected to be phased out in the near future? Should the formulation of
standards take into account the age of the plant?
Issue 3. SETTING ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY STANDARDS THAT ARE PRACTICAL AND
ENFORCEABLE.
There is a general lack of published area about actual pollution from various
fertilizer production units. Worldwide, these data, even if known, are viewed
as confidential bi' most producers and are generally not available. Data
regarding potential pollution sources and quantities published by process
licensors are generally not routinely monitored and confirmed in most
production units unless there are well-enforced standards (laws) in place.
The existence of a standard is no assurance that a plant is in compliance. In
some cases, the technology required for accurately measuring and routinely
monitoring certain process streams may not be available. For example,
specialized techniques may have to be developed to measure the particulate
(dust) and ammonia emissions from the large flow of air exiting the urea
prilling towers.
Issue 4. QUANTIFYING THE INFLUENCE OF MANAGEMENT OF POILUTION.
The environmental impact of a processing unit is not only determined by the
process technology. Management, especially as it pertains to operations and
maintenance, often has a significant impact on the level of pollution. Thus,
the survey work must also include an evaluation of the relative impact of
technology and management on the level of pollution observed at each unit.



Attac,ament
Page 4
Issue 5. CURRENT LEVEL OF LOCAL ACTIVITY IN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.
The level of existing expertise and current level of pollution monitoring and
control activities in Indonesia must be determined during the design of the
overall program. This will help to determine the level of expatriate
expertise needed to perform the initial survey of effluents discharged from
the production sites.
Issue 6. IMPACT OF INVESTMENT COSTS ON PRODUCTION COSTS.
Modification of existing technologies or installation of new technologies to
eliminate or reduce the level of pollution may increase capital and operating
costs. The recovery of these costs during the life of a project will increase
production costs unless these environmentally safe technologies are fully or
partially subsidized. A profile of production costs resulting from new
technologies should be developed. Tradeoffs between investment costs and
levels of pollution should be assessed through a sensitivity analysis to
identify the least-cost process for a given level of pollution.
Issue 7. SEQUENCING AND PHASING OF ACTION AND INVESTMENT PROGRAM.
Having determined the least-cost process for an acceptable level of pollution,
and its impact on production costs, the issues related to the implementation
of such programs should be addressed.  Special attention should be paid to
capital and manpower requirements and the timing of implementation of these
programs.



'age
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Local Foreign Total
----- Million----
I. Project Cost
Gresik Restructuring Component
Ammonia/Urea Plant la
Ammonia Process Licensor (Kellogg)           -       93.1   93.1
Urea Process Licensor (T.E.C.)               -       32.5   32.5
Civil Works & Erection (IKPT)              100.5      -    100.5
Gresik Supplied Equipment & Services        16.0      0.7   16.7
Subtotal                             116.5    126.3  242.8
Plant Modernization                          2.0      8.8   10.8
Subtotal Gresik Restructuring        118.5    135.1  253.6
Optimization Component
PUSRI II Urea                                7.8     19.7   27.5
PUSRI Effluent Treatment                     0.8      2.3    3.1
Kaltim I Ammonia/Urea                        3.9     32.8   36.7
Kujang Ammonia                               2.0     11.4   13.4
PIM Ammonia                                  2.0      9.6   11.4
Subtotal Optimization                 16.3      75.8   92.1
Studies Component
Marketing and Distribution                   0.1      0.3    0.4
Development of Fertilizer Sector EMP         0.1      0.4    0.5
Subtotal Studies                        0.2      0.7    0.9
Total Base Cost Estimate (BCE)        135.0    211.6  346.6
Physical Contingencies
Gresik Restructuring Component lb       0.1      0.4    0.5
Optimization Component                  0.8      3.8    4.6
Subtotal                             0.9       4.2    5.1
Expected Price Increases
Gresik Restructuring Component lb       0.1      0.6    0.7
Optimization Component                  1.1      6.0    7.1
Subtotal                             1.2       6.6    7.8
Interest During Construction
Gresik Restructuring Component        46.4       -     46.4
Optimization Component                 18.4      -     18.4
Subtotal                            64.8       -     64.8
Working Capital /c
Gresik Restructuring Component        20.0       -     20.0
Total Project Cost                 221.9    222.4  444.3



- 80 -
ANNEX 4
Dage 2
II.  PROJECT FINANCING PLAN (SUMMARY)
Equity                                               143.8       0.7  144.5
LT Borrowing - World Bank                              -      221.7  221.7
Medium Term Borrowing (BNI 46) /d                     58.1       -     58.1
ST Borrowing (BNI 46)                                 20.0       -     20.0
Total Financing Required           221.9    221.4  444.3
III. DETAILED FINANCING PLAN
Gresik Restructuring Component
Equity (Gresik)                                 107.0      -    107.0
LT Borrowing - World Bank                         -      136.1  136.1
Medium Term Borrowing (BNI 46)                   58.1       -     58.1
ST Borrowing (BNI 46)                            20.0      -      20.0
Subtotal                                   185.1    136.1  321.2
Optimization Component
Equity (Four Fertilizer Companies)               36.6      -      36.6
LT Borrowing - World Bank                         -       85.6   85.6
Subtotal                                    36.6     85.6  122.2
Studies Component
Equity (Five Fertilizer Companies)                0.2      0.7    0.9
Subtotal                                     0.2      0.7    0.9
Total Financing Required                   221.9    222.4  444.3
la Based on prill alternative.
lb Contingencies only on modernization of Gresik's existing plants.
/c Incremental working capital for optimization component negligible.
/d Bank Negara Indonesia 1946.
AS5IE
October 1990
I



INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Potrokimia Gresik Restructuring Component
Detailed Cost Estimtes
(t million)
Year I                  Year 2                  Year a                  Year 4                   Total
Local  Foreign Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreigr  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
1. Petrokisis Gresik Ammonia/
Urea Facilities
Amonis prccess liconsor      -      11.0   11.0      -      65.8   55.8      -      22.3   22.8      -       4.0     4.0     -      93.1   98.1
Urea process licensor        -       a.8    3.8      -      20.0   20.0      -       8.7     8.7     -       -       -              32.5   32.5
Civil works and erection    12.2     -      12.2   E9.6      -      59.8   25.3      -      26.8    3.4      -       3.4  100.5      -     100.5
Creelk-supplied equipmnt    5.0      -       5.0    6.0      -       5.0    6.0      -       e.o     -       -       -      18.o     -      16.0
Consulting service           -       0.2     0.2     -       0.8     0.8     -       0.2     0.2     -       -       -       -       0.7     0.7
Subtotal                 17.2   15.0   82.2   84.6   78.1  140.7   31.3   31.1   62.4    3.4              4.1     7.5  118.5  126.3  242.8
Working Capital              -       -       -      20.0     -      20.0     -       -       -       -       -       -      20.0     -      20.0 0
Interest during constr.      1.8     -       1.3    9.6      -       9.6    19.2     -      19.2   12.6      -      12.6   42.8      -      42.6
Total Cost L!            18.5   16S0    a3.5   94.2   7e.1  170.8   S0.5   31.1   81.8   1S.9    4.1   20.0  179.1  126.8  305.4
2. Petrokimis Greslk Plant
Modernization
Equipmsnt and Civil works    -       -       -       1.0    8.0      7.0    1.0      2.6     3.6     -       -       -       2.0    8.5    10.6
Consulting Services          -       0.2     0.2     -       0.1     0.1     -       -       -                               -       0.3     0.8
Physical Contingency         -       -       -       0.1    0.8    0.4       -       0.1     0.1     -       -       -       0.1    0.4      0.5
Price Contingency            -       -       -       -       0.3     0.3     0.1    0.8      0.4    -        -       -       0.1    0.6      0.7
Subtotal                  -       0.2     0.2    1.1    6.7       7.8    1.1      2.9     4.0                     -       2.2     9.8   12.0
Interest during constr.      -       -       -       0.8     -       0.8    1.5      -       1.6     1.7     -       1.7    3.8      -       3.8
Total Cost                -       0.2    0.2      1.7    8.7      8.4     2.6     2.9     .S    1.7      -       1.7     6.0     9.8   15.8
Total Component Cost    18.5   15.2   33.7   96.9   82.8  178.7   53.1   34.0   87.1   17.6    4.1    21.7    es.L  136.1  321.2
Lf  No pric, or physical contingencies duo to firm price contracts.
ASSIE
October 1990



- 82 -
ANNEX 5-2
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PUSRI II Urea Optimization Project - Capital Cost Estimates
(million US$)
Local       Foreign       Total
Equipment, mat?rials and spares                     1.00         15.16        16.16
Freight, handl.ng and insurance                     -             1.07         1.07
Subtotal                                       1.00         16.23       17.23
License and engineering services                    -             3.19         3.19
Erection and commissioning                          6.29          -            6.29
Other costs                                         0.53          -            0.53
Consultants services                                              0.25         0.25
Total Base Cost Estimate (BCE)                 7.82         19.67       27.49
Physical contingency                                0.39          1.12         1.51
Price contingency                                   0.62          1.72         2.34
Total Installed Cost                           8.83         22.51       31.34
Interest during construction                        4.97          -            4.97
Total Financing Required                      13.80         22.51       36.31
AS5IE
October 1990



- 83 -
ANNEX 5-3
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PUSRI Effluent Treatment Facilities
(million US$)
Local     Foreign    Total
Equipment, materials and spares                     0.80        2.30       3.10
Total Base Cost Estimate (BCE)                   0.80        2.30      3.10
Physical contingencies                               -          0.11       0.11
Expected price increases                             -          0.17       0.17
Total Installed Cost                             0.80        2.58      3.38
Interest during construction                        0.6q         -        0.64
Total Financing Required                         1.44        2.58      4.02
AS5IE
October 1990



- 84 -
ANNEX 5-4
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Kaltim I Optimization Project - Capital Cost Estimates
(million 'IS$)
Local       Foreign       Total
Equipment, materials and spares                     3.46         26.98        30.44
Freight, handling and insurance                     0.35          2.61         2.96
Subtotal                                       3.82        29.59        33.41
Consultants Services                                -             0.?5         0.25
License and engineering services                    0.05          2.94         2.99
Total Base Cost Estimate (BCE)                 3.87        32.78        36.65
Physical contingency                                0.19          1.67         1.86
Price contingency                                   0.30          2.61         2.91
Total Installed Cost                           4.36        37.06        41.42
Interest during construction                        7.80          -            7.80
Total Financing keq[uired                     16.16        37.06        49.22
ASSIE
October 1990



- 85 -
ANNEX 5-5
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Kujang Optimization Project - Capital Cost Estimates
(million US$)
Local       Foreign       Total
Ammonia converter modification                      0.53          1.95         2.48
Hydrolyzer                                          -             1.50         1.50
Steam superheater                                   -             0.40         0.40
Stack heat recovery                                 -             2.10         2.10
Carbonate flash                                     -             0.50         0.50
Air compressor                                      -             1.00         1.00
Reformer tube replacement                           1.30          3.70         5.00
Reformer lining                                     0.20          -            0.20
Consultants Services                                              0.25         0.25
Total Base Cost Estimate (BCE)                 2.03         11.40       13.43
Physical contingency                                0.10          0.55         0.65
Price contingency                                   0.08          0.74         0.82
Total Installed Cost                           2.21         12.69       14.90
Interest during construction                        2.53          -            2.53
Total Financing Required                       4.74         12.69       17.43
ASSIE
October 1990



- 86 -
ANNEX 5-6
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PIM Optimization Project - Capital Cost Estimates
(million US$)
Local     Foreign    Total
Equipment, materials and spares                    0.57       8.01       8.58
Subtotal                                        0.57       8.01       8.58
License and engineering services                   0.31       1.19       1.50
Erection land commissioning                        0.90       0.15       1.05
Consultants services                                -         0.25       0.25
Total Base Cost Estimate (BCE)                  1.78       9.60      11.38
Physical contingency                               0.09       0.44       0.53
Price contingency                                  0.13       0.66       0.79
Total Installed Cost                            2.00      10.70      12.70
Interest during construction                       2.50         -        2.50
Total Financing Required                        4.50      10.70      15.20
ASSIE
October 1990



- 87 -
ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan la
(USS million)
Standard Profile
for Asia Region -
Bank                             Disbursement                 Industrial Projects
FY     semester    Semester       Cumulative      Percent          Percent
FY91
I
II         22.2           22.2            10                  0
FY92
I          25.1           47.3            21                  3
II         30.0           77.3            35                  6
FY93
I          30.0          107.3            48                 14
II         35.0          142.3            64                 26
FY94
I          20.0          162.3            73                 46                  F
II         17.0          179.3            81                 58
FY95
I          15.0          194.3            76                 70
II         10.0          204.3            92                 78
FY96
I           8.0          212.3            96                 86
II          5.0          217.3            98                 91
FY97
I           3.0          220.3            99                 98
II          1.4          221.7           100                100
/a   Completion Date:  June 30, 1997
Closing Date: December 31, 1997



- 88 -
ANNEX 7-1
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Financial Projection Assumptions
Gresik Ammonia/Urea Investment
1.        Financial projections have been estimated at two basic price levels:
(a) the base case, with and without project (Annjxes 7-2 and 7-3) with 1990
prices; and (b) with 1990 prices escalated, with project (Annex 7-4) as
follows:
2.        Production estimates are as follows:
1989      1980      1991      1m        1993      1994      1996+
…------------------------------------  tons   ---- - - - - - - - - - - -
TSP          1,200,000  1,200,000  1,220,000  1,220,000  1,220,000  1,220,000  1,220,000
AS             882,000   600,000   660,000   660,000   660,000   660,000   660,000
Urea (begged)      --        --        --        --  10,000   460,000   460,000              _
3.        Main product base case prices (Annex 7-3) are as follows:
(Actual)
1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994      1995+
---------------------- (US$/ton) ------------------------
TSP                 215      215       215      215       215      203       203/a
AS                  128      128       128      128       128      117       1177i
Urea (bagged)      -------- No production --------        145      145       1457h
/a Assumes border prices used as basis for 1994 and 1995+.
7h  Border prices used as basis for 1993.  Price for subsequent years
maintained at 1993 border price.
4.        Main product 1989 escalated prices (Annex 7-4) assume the same unit
prices as above, but have been escalated at 5 percent per year.
5.        Projections of operating costs are based on Gresik's 1989 actuals.
Natural gas is priced at US$2.0 MHBtu.
6.        Escalated projected financial statements of Gresik (Annex 7-4) have
been inflated at 6.5 percent for 1990 and 1991, anc 6 percent thereafter for
local costs, and 3.6 percent for foreign costs except for fixed charges such
as depreciation and interest.



INDOESIA - FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PT PETROKIHIA CRESIK
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED INCOME STATREWST 1986-1999 I1THOUT PROJECT
(Rp Billion)
- CUL-----------          -------------PROJECtED---------------------------------
S        1967 19    6t     1969      1990     1991     1992     1993     1996     1995     1996    1997    19M       1999
_. _.    ----     ....     ----     ----      _-- _    ----                                ---      ---     ---      ---- __   _ _
let *.1.                       451.S    533.7    537.9    631.6    677.0    719.1    711.9    717.9    616.5    674.5    674.5   674.5   676.5   614.5
cost Of Good. Sold             353.2    '0'.0    *5S.7    522.0   545.3   563.2   561.6   566.5   513.6   508.2   588.2    588.2   5"6.'   5"8.2
____.    ---       __ _     _ __   _-- ----_ -----  -----  -----  -- -   -- -   -- -   -----  -----_                   __
Crsos  Fgotls                  114.9   129.7      19.2   109.6    131.7    155.9   156.3   151.6   100.7    66.3    86.3    66.3    66.3              16.3
4perat es Lupeoea
Nbr.tLaS gEapeme               6.6      6.7     11.6     11.2    12.6       13.6    15.1    15.1    15.1    15.1         15.1    15.1    15.1    15.1
^.nsrsl & Ai n.               11.7     11.9    13.0    11.3         9.6     15.6    16.4    18.9    19.8    20.3    20.3    20.3    20.3    20.3             OD
Interest bapeas.             25.9    3S.0       66.3     35.0     29.6     27.0     25.3     23.8     22.3     21.0     20.2    19.5    16.9    16.6          I
Depreclatien                  32.1     53.6    35.2      36.3     36.3      30.1     31.6     27.4    20.5      6.3       6.3     6.3      6.3      6.3
Total Opecatlas 3mpg.w.         76.3     61.4    104.1     93.6    87.7    *6.1    80.6        85.2      77.7    62.7     61.9    61.2    64.6    60.3
let 4ecrat1ag InoSs             56.6    42.3    -24.9      15.6     66.0     69.6     67.9    66.2    23.0    23.6    24.6    25.1    25.7    26.0
Ostht iPwl.1tI-Loss              6.6     11.4     27.3     14.1      7.5      6.9      6.3      6.7      9.1      9.6    10.3    10.5    11.1    11.6
E nbLps 2 fer. Tames            63.0     53.7      2.6     29.7     51.5     76.7     76.2     76.9     32.1     33.2     34.4     35.6    36.8    37.6
1m                               6 .0    15.9      0.0     11.2     16.0    26.8    26.7    26.2    11.2    11.6    12.0    12.5    12.9    13.2
Samiasa After Tame.       n      9.0     37.6      2.6    16.5      33.5    49.9    69.5    68.7    20.9    21.6    22.4    23.1    23.9    24.6
0 s
1/  projected in 1990 values.                                                                                                                                0I
Without project. no escalation, border prices starting in 1994 with tsp end *r.                                                                          4
L}FPI8



INDONESIA - FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PT PETROKINlA GRESIK
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED FUNDS FLOW STATEIIENT 1986-1999 - WITHOUT PROJECT
(Rp Billion)
- -----ACTUAL---------               ------------------------------------PROJECTED-11-------------------------------------
SCUICES                         190      1967      1906     1989     1990      1991     1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     199      199      1999
MNt  nom  after tax             39.0     37.6       2.4     18.5     33.5      49.9     49.5     '8.7     20.9    21.6    22.'    23.1    23.9    24.4
Depreclation                    32.1    $3.6       3S.2     36.3     36.3      30.1     31.6     27.4    20.5       6.3      6.3      6.3      6.3      6.3
Paid-la Capital                  1.6     24.5      35.3
LAoq& Tero  Debt                                    4.8
Total souace*                72.9     96.1      71.7     54.8    69.8    60.0        81.1     76.1     41.4    27.9    28.7    29.4    30.2    30.?             0
-          -      _          -        -                  -        -      _          -_       -        -       -         - o
APPLICATION
lve*t at                         1.6      6.4      6.7       0.8      2.1      0.1
Pixed *asets                     8.0      9.5      17.4      5.9      7.0      7.0       6.6      7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0      1.0      7.0      1.0
Inaoece tn Cmatwuct iot
to ?Posweaa                    0.6      1.1     (4.4)      1.9
Iocreane to Otbhe  Aasare.       0.6      6.6      (0.5)    (2.0)                                (1.6)
Door"" is, Loon term Debt        6.6     13.7               24.0     18.0     15.7      15.6     13.9      9.7      8.3      8.3      4.1
Diwidenad,Doi2smae               7.5     39.0      31.8      1.9     11.7     17.5      17.3     17.0      7.3      7.6      7.8      8.1      8.4      8.S
Sub total                     24.9     76.5     57.0      32.5     38.8     40.3     41.5      36.3     24.0     22.9     23.1     19.2     15.4     IS.1
Incaro  I in  orking Capital    48.0     19.6     20.7      22.3     31.0     39.7     39.6      39.8     17.4      5.0      5.6    10.2      14.8    15.2
Total Application             72.9     96.1     77.7      54.8     69.8     80.0     61.1      76.1     41.4     27.9     28.7    29.4    30.2       30.7
_---------------- -                 _,_.                                                    s--'             - '
11 PRCJLCtED IN 1990 VALUES                                                                                                                                    O% "
BRWPSA



IIDOIESIA - FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PT PETROKINIA GRESIK
ACTUAL AND PiOJECTED BALANCE SUREM 1986-1999 - WITHOUT PROJECT
(Rp BILion)
-ACT-----------  L-------------------------------- PROJECTED-/ -- - -------------------------------
ASSETS                           19       193"      1988     1989      1990     1991     1992      199      1994     1995     1996     1997     1e       1Y99
Current assets
Cash                           0.6       S.)      6.3       1.3     42.5      83.2    124.4    160.5    178.2    184.3    188.9   191.1   206.1   221.2
cmivablea                    239.5    314.0    590.1    456.0    410.0    440.0    440.0    440.0   440.0   440.0   440.0   440.0   140.0   440.0
prcepad epenses                5.9       9.1     11.4       7.2      7.2       7.2      7.2       7.2      7.2      7.2      1.2      7.2      7.2      7.2
hvanterles                    82.0      $9.1    101.4    153.2    153.2    153.2    153.2    153.2   153.2    153.2    153.2   153.2   153.2   153.2
totel current assets       331.0    412.7    709.2    617.7    642.9    683.6    724.8    760.9   778.6   784.7   789.3    791.8   806.5   821.6
laveat_mte                      11.2      17.6     24.2      25.0     32.2      32.2     32.2    32.2    32.2    32.2    32.2    32.2    32.2    $2.2
lVIsd Assets
LOW                           12.2    12.1       12.4      12.4     12.4      12.4     12.4     12.1     12.4      12.4     12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4
Ppeporty. plant
a 9"&pUoat                 326.7    336.0    355.4    361.1    370.1    37.1 1    384.1    393.4   400.1    406.1    414.1   *21.1    *28.1   1.5.1
Lessai4preltalan            -121.5   -153.2   -193.4   -226.8   -263.0  -294.0   -325.6  -393.0  -373.5   -379.8  -386.2  -392.7  -396.5  -405.1
Nbt f1ud *asets               219.4    195.2    177.1    141.0    119.6       95.8      71.2     52.8    39.0    38.7        40.3    40.8      *1.7    42.4
C.nstructlon in Progcros         4.9       6.0      1.7       3.6      1.6       1.6      1.6      1.6      1.6       1.6      1.6      1.6      1.6      1.6    o
Other Assets                     6 0      12.0     12.3      10.3     12.3      12.3     12.3     12.3     12.3     12.3      12.3    12.3    12.3    12.A
Total Ascsto                   52.5    644.3    924.8    803.6    8008.8    825.5   862.1    859.8   863.7    869.5   8S5.7   818.1   894.3   910.1
_ ._ _ - . _ . ,,,,, ,,,,, _ , ,, ,.I._  ._,  .........    .....
I                                      Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M



LI*DILITIES i EQUITV
Curteat Llablities         212.9    275.1    SSO.S    437.2   *37.2   437.2   437.2   *37.2   437.2   437.2   437.2   431.2   4)7.2   437.2
Loms Tenm Debt              Is.0    119.)    124.2    100.1       83.5     67.8     S2.2     38.3     28.6    20.3    12.0
Share Capital               150.6    150.0    165.2    165.2    165.2    165.2    165.2    165.2    165.2   165.2    165.2   165.2   165.2   165.2
bitimed Eaminga               16.6    99.9      64.6    101.1    122.9    155.3    187.5    219.1    232.7   246.8   261.3   276.3   291.9   301.1
Sub-total Bquity          226.6   249.9    249.6    266.3    268.1   320.5   352.7   384.3   397.9   412.0    426.5   441.5   457.1    472.9
_  _  _   -----   -----     -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    -----
Totol Liablhities. Equity    572.5    644.3    924.8    603.6    808.8    625.5    842.1    659.8    863.7   869.5   87S.1   678.7   *94.3   910.1             °
1i Projocted data in 1990 values
OS
014
P-
lbN



INDONEsIA - FwILUU  Es SIEUS    USJ11
Pi PETIRSCIIA GV.IM
ACtUAL AM FPJECTID ICOIE STATST@8   1914-109 - WITH FIOECT
(R-LDi  I I ion)
.----.-.--ACwA -----------------   ---------------- ----- - -------------F @   11ECE- /--------- ----- ----- ---- --- ----- -- ----- -
1_W    loI7      19 1              1990    1901    1992    193    194    19115    1996    I97    190    199
-            ---      --- _..___. __. . .__._.  ---     ---      ---      ...     ---     ---      --- _----____ _         __ _ __
No$ Sales                    41. 1    M.7   647.0   63.4   677.0   719.1   711.9   771.9  604.0   604.0  604.0   004.0   604.0   S04 0
Cost 6 am" Sold              SM.    491.9   463.6   832.0   546.3   6s3.2   6S1.6   5317.s    63.0   60.0   606.0   60.0   6060    we 0
o0ee P,fit                   117.0   111.6    02.4   109.4   131.7    16. 9    156 3   234.1   211.0   196.0   196.0   196.0   196.0   596 0
Opraime Empeao
Shrh.tle  ESpesee            4.6      *.7    I1.$    10.0    U3.0    14.3    Is.9    i5.9    15.9    16.9          1.9    15.9    IS 9    159 
Omoral * Adeil.             £3.0    14.7    16.2    12.6    1a.7    18.4    59.3    20.3    21.3    21.3    21.3    21.3    21.3    21.3
jebevt Eaee                 25.9    0S.0    44.S      6.0    20.4    27.0    26.3    28.8    22.3    21.0    20.2    19.5    56.9    16.4
Add  1.6                                                        1.3      4.2    16.1    36.5    56.4    47.6    37.6    30.7    26.6    22.5
woeciatie,                  32.1    33.6       6.2    3.8    86.6    30.1    3l.6    36.7    40.9    27.7    27.7    27.7    27.7    27.7                                          W
Toloe  1eretlie Ebpee"e       76.4    4I.2   107.3    ".4.   96.7    *4.0   110.4   137.1   136.6   136.6   122.6   115.1   110.4   506.0
No    rtie Income             31116.6    42.8   -24.9    16.6    86.0    61.9    45.9    97.0    64.2    62.6    73.6   61.0    86.7    90.1
O*e  P.od&/_-IO,               4.4    11.4    27.8    14.1        7.6      7.9     8.3      6.7     9.1      9.6    10.0    10.5    11.1    11.6
Eaue1_ llefor* Tome           48.0    53.7      2.4    29.7    42.6    69.8    64.2   106.7    63.3    72.2    ".6 .         91.6    9.6   101.?
Tlm.,                          4.0     1. 9      0.0    11.2    14.9    24.4    19.0  S7.0    22.2    26.3    29.2    32.0    33.9    36S
Otl1r Tomes
Earaiee After Tomes           19.0    37.6      2.4    16.6    27.6    45.4    36.2    U.7    41.1    46.0    64.S    S9.5    42.9    66.1
AfWte Te1n bbelege/Sel.e      0.09    0.07    0.00    0.06    0.04    0.06    0.05    0.09    0.06    0.06    0.07    0.07    0.00    0.06                                        'V
l     Oerallag Incomes/lm,    0.0o   0o.01   -o.0o0    0.02    0.06    0.09    0.06    0.13    0.07    0.06    0.09    0.10    0.11    0.11                                       D
1le*ret Covereg                8.9      3.7      1.6     2.9      3.6     4.2      3.0     3.3      2.3     2.6      2.0     3.4      3.7     4 1                                    X
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
ONUI" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~        ~      ~       ~       O



INDONESIA - FERTILIZER ENRLS1RALIN  PROJECT
PT PEIROKINIA RlESIK
ACTUAL AM PROJECTED ROS FLOW STATElT £86- 19 - WITH PRJECT
(R0 IlXi in)
__   -                         ------ _ _ _ _  _ _      __ ----------  -----------------   - --------FROETDlO /- --- -- ---- -----------------------------------  ~ ~~~ ~~ ~
lw       low      1a       la        Iow      lin      10,2   1£93       1994     1a99     196      19"?     M9      1999
atA icoam, after ea               .0     87.0      2.4     3*..    27.0       45.4   3S.2       6.1    41.1    40.9    64.3    69.5    62.9    66.1
eprociatia                      U1.S     U.O      5.2      U.1    3.3         z0.1    31.6    30.7    40.9    27.7    27.7    27.7    27.1    21.7
ais-l Copital                    1.      U.S      3.
L_e  Ters Sub                                      4.0
1=  to"                                                             27.0   IJ7.0    64.0         7.4
"W. Te LMa 1_7.3                                                              31.0    33.6    21.9
*bA. Cap. I   e                                                               30.0
Total inrcea                72.9   9S.1        77.7     04.     100.2    20.3   104.4    in.7    32.0    74.0    32.0    07.2    00.6              3.0                                      I
g1wa _te*                       1.         .4      0.7      0.7      2.1
fi m* Amate                     0.0       9.1     17.4      7.0      7.0       7.0      0.0   4311.0      7.0      1.0      7.0      i.0     7.0       7.0
locrea_s ir Camusttic           0.6       1.1    -4.4               30.0   263.3    112.3  -4-.6
umeem_ i. other A-i             0.0       0.0    -0.5                                          -I.e
Suer. is  aietia. LT  et        J.0    13.7                22.0     *0.0    16.7    16.5    13.9          9.7     0.3       0.3     4.1      0.0      0.0
Seer. i1 i_ Los                                                                                                  22.7    22.7    22.7    22.7    22.7
B      O r. d. Tie L*"e                                                                                 31.3    37.3       0.0
Saee. is V.C. Low                                                                               36.0
Owwide . 0.a.se.Cap. lat    7.0          36.0    37.0       2.J      a.7      19.a    36.6    23.9    14.4    16.4    19.0    20.0    220            23.1
Sub bateS                    24.0    76.3    e7.0         r.#      1.0   295.3   172.1         6.0    ft.4    91.7    07.0    54.0    51.7    62.6 20
laecross  is Wabilg Capital    45.0    19.6    20.7        37.2     16.4   -16.0   -15.7       51.1    13.0   -37.1       -.0       22      309      4.0                                         X
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~        - -       ---      ---      ---      ---      ---      ...      --_       ---     ....    ---                                           _
Total Applieatieo            72.9     96.1    77.7    54.0   106.2   280.3   156 4    133.7    33.0    74.6              2 0    67 2      90 6    93 6                                      L
.5.      ....     ....     ....      ....    .....           .  5...                  ...    .   ...
la lo9 pricee



_um calcuaeti,a  r.e. bhsiaim                                  101.1   122.0   168.1   147.7   192.5   219.2   249.7   286.0   323 7   364 6
not iacoe                                                     27.4    45.4    35.2    68.7    41 1    46.9    54.3    59.5    62 6    66.1
jd,.,deede. hagu. cm*. ik.                                    -6.7   -19.9   -35.6   -23.9   -14.4   -1U.4   -19.0   -20.S   -22.0   -23 1
NW . .E.                                                    122.0   148.1   141.7   192.5   219.2   249.7   265.0   323.7   364.6   407 5
0
P,
16
'.



INDONESIA - FRTILIZE3 AESTSJCTlfi1  FRlOJiT
PfT PETWIDIZA WIESIK
ACP.ML NO PROJECTED 1AA1CE 1EET 19611-199  - ITH iOJECT
(RH  ail I ion)
ASE
______                                      - - --------------   --------------__-----,----- --------I'ROJECTiD-1/ -----------------------------------------
536     69W      19w     199      l9o0    1991  IC92                1994    199      to"6    A99      1996    1997
Currool. Asms.
Cook from OperaIiou          0.6      0.5      6.S      1.S     2.9   -16.1    16.7   -12.9  -131.5   -49.6   -S6.6   -26.9    12.7    63.6
Receles.                   31.1   814.0   tO.1   46611.0   475.0   476.8   475.6   41n.6    46.0   476.6   417.0   415.8   415 6   4756 
Prwead Elap...               S..      *.1    11.4      7.2      4.8      1.6      7.2     1.2      1.2     1.2    11.4    11.4    It 4    it 4
Iav.ebr).e                   1.0     6.1   301.4   116.2   160.9   11S.9   1n.a   200.3   220.s.    220.o   320.3   2.3   2.3   220.3
Tol.I Carr"% Ase"        S1U.0   412.7   706.2   S17.7   66S.4   6M.4    621.6   670.4   665.6   6W.7   646.7    60.6   720.2   761.1
NO
11.2    17.4    24.2    26.0    82.1    32.1    82.1    S2.1    82.1    82.1    82.1    32.1    82.1    32.1
Fined hos
Load                        12.2    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4
Pro..tv. P1.14
A aw515                   M.r       6.0   116.41  861.4   166.4   871.4    64.0   821.0    M.0   816.0   042.0   69.0   816.0   663.0
L_,esIAu 0.pr.cimki.a    -121.6  -186.2  -110.4   -M.4  -2-.1  -298.2  -824.6  -862.4   -0.1  -417.0  -44.6  -41.2  -600.9  -52m.6
lbs fined _mbe              216.4   I66.2   711.4   147.0   117.1    94.6   n1.6   471.0   561.8   42.4    06.9   8.2    67.56  346.
C_uetruc*   1.  Prla r_se      4.9      6.0      1.7     8.6    46.8   816.6   426.0        2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0
*t&., AS.                      6.0    12.6    12.8    10.        10.3    10.8    10.8    10        0.8 10.3810..8    10.3    10.              10. 
Total AseS.                  512.5    64.3   924.    608.61   672.0  1060.0  1161.6  1165.4  1141.6  1127.7  1102.0  1113.2  1132 1  1152 3
eas    ---.    ace      .a...   a...  ..a   ....  ..               . . . . ease. .e.    Ce.  _ae              5555.. .. .. ....
UW
U *                *__-



LIABILITIES A EWIIW
CurreB L;ubilt;.ee         212.9   27S.1   560.0   4)7.2   459.1   459.1   459.1   459.1   459.1   459.1   459.1   459 1   459.1   459.1
Lme Tore 0*1               18.0   119.3   124.2   100.1   1268.   315.6    39.6   369.0   236.0   25.7   192.7   165.2   143.2   120 5
Shote Cw&a.l                M. 1.0           SU6.1 166.2     I66.2   165.2   165.2   165.2     165.2   165.2    165.2   165.2   365.2   16.2   165.2
ose IA" Eformias            76.0    61.6    36.4   103.1   122.0   140.1   147.7   192.5   219.2   24.9   205 .0   323.7   3  6   407.5
Sub-T5el lueiu          20.6       9.0   246.0   216.8   207.2   313.3   312.9   357.7   30.4   414.9   430.2   400.9   529.3   5711.
Tot.l Liabilities. fjuit,  612.5   344.0   05.0   05.6    072.0  1010.0  1161.4  1105.0  1141.5  1127.7  1102.0  1113.2  1132.1  1162.3                                   1
CurtainS m.,.IejCulrr.  imb.   1.0      1.5      1.3      1.4     1.4      1.4      3.4     3.5      1.2     1.4      1.4     I.5      1.6     I 1
04%/Equity Relic             0.001    0.471    0.497   0.370   0.440    1.007    1.245    1.02   0.776   0.011   0.420   0.338   0.270   0.230
is low0 prie, With Project
05
LA



IMINESIA - VFRllNIZI RESTMUCTUlIN# PRfOJECT
PT PEIAOKIHIA 0K
ACTUAL AD PROJECTED INCOME STATMENT 1986-1999 - WITH 'HOFJT
(Re DiIIion)
_____ L    _ __-- _-_- __-_-_--_-_-.- ----       '-------------- - ----- - lO JEC1 ED-I /  - - ---- - ---- --- -- -- -- -- -- - ---- -- - ---- ---
J1      SWo      lw       Iwo8    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    196          1991    199s    1999
_--     ...      ...      ---      --- _---   _ ____ _       -___-- ---  ---  ----  ----  ----  ---    -- -     - -
Not Seles                   4*1.1   683.7  ur.9    "I.4   677.0   754.6   101 3   096.    980.?  1030.0  1001.5  1136.6  1192.3  12619
Coo of cood Sold             54.1   401.2   43.5   5.0   045.8   590.0   620.5  6US.9   122.1  175.9   015.4   GM.7   897 4   943.0
c. Profi tI                   17.0   322.5    09.4   19.4   151.7   164.4   170.0   260.7   219.0   264.1    265.    278.9   294 9   30D.1
operalime ELp.eoom                                                                                                                                                                  I
hrboting E*pema.             5.6      5.7    11.6    10.0    33.0  I5.0    19.2    20.1    21.1    22.2    23.3    24.6   23.1    21.0                                            %
CGaeral  i Adiag.           13.0    14.1    16.2    12.1    I6.7    19.9    21.4    26.7    26.4    29.0   $1.3    3J.9    34.5    36.3
Interet.  Sapema           23.0    82.0    44.3    35.0    29.4    27.0    25.X    21.6    22.3    21.0    20.2    19.6   31 9    10.6
Addd  l                                                         1.3      9.2    18.3    3S.5   85.4    41.6    a7.6    30.7    26 5         22.5
Depre.ci.ioe                82.1    38.5    36.2    86.3    86.8    30.1    31.5    S0.7    40.9    27.7    21.7    27.7    27.?    21.7
TSol Opreli  l Eapegee        15.4      0.2   101.8    93.0    99.7   100.5   117.7   145.0   169.2   145.8   139.9   186.2   133.4   132.2
Me iaeseife g  ome            1111.5    42.3   -24.0    16.5    86.0    54.0    18.1   11.0    *9.a   305.0   121.2   143.1   361.6   116.9
DIMr Profi&-L.e               4.4    11.4    27.3    14.1        7.5      7.9     0.3     *.7      9.1      9.5    10.0    10.1    11.1    11.5
bare ie motors tea..          48.0    03.7      2.4    ".7    42.6    71.0    61.4   i22.6    95.9   116.4   105.2   164.2  312.6   107.5
Zecome Tear                    4.0    16.9      0.0    11.2    14.9    25.2    21.6    42.9    34.6    40.4    47.3    64.0    60.4            S6
O Ier Temo
£Erfie5  Aflt. Team           99.0    87.5      2.4      U.5    21.6    45.0    39.9    79.7    64.8    75.0    *7.9   100.2   112 2    121 9
_ _.    __n                                                  a_.   _ _.       an      a..    n.        Sa       a..
Sal'..                                                                                                                                                                      me~~sam
h$^                                                                                                                                  {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~143
After Tax Ernings/Sol"-       0.09    0.07    0.00    0.03    0.04    0.06    0.05    0.09    0.07    0.07    0.0           0 09    0 09    0 10                                   a  a
0.eratine Incoe./Selee        0 09    0.0   -0.05    0.02    0.0       0.06    0.07    0.18    0.09    0.10    0.12    0.13    0 14    0 14
Inf l.r fCoverego              3 9     3 7      1 8      2.9     3 6      3 8      3 1     3.6      2.3      9.1     3.8     4.6      5 4     6 2
1/ S-l.  A.o.no.es cosat of good, maid and oparating apxPns0. 10a
deprclt.on 08 4calal.*  afl, 19809



IffO&SIA - EiEtiLlIHN k51141KRAIC MI1JLCT
P1 PElRflIIIA WWSIK
ACTlAu AN1 PlOJECl) FRlWS fLOW STATEIEAIT 1906-1999 - WIT" FROJfCT
stop 0.11sa)
14       NW       to "      909 1eow    I99l    1992    19             3914     i9      1996   I97       199      M99
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - -     ---      -- -     --_- ----                  ...   .   -- -   - -       - -    ...      ---
Ns% ;_m   ofttr ta.            8.0      $7.0      2.4    10.5    27.6       4 S    39.9    79.7       6.3    71.0    67 9    100 2    112 2    124 9
0..roiatio'                    S2..1    88.1    88.2    16.8    36.3    30.1    316          36.7    40.9    27.7    27.7    27 7    27 7    27.7
Paid-la Caital                  1.0    060       81.5
Lane. 1.,.- Sub                                   4.0
NW Laos                                                           21.0   187.0    56.0        7.4
Mud. Ter- Law                                                      17.8    81.0    33.6    21.9
wk. Cap. La"                                                                36.0
To1 l aur."                 72.9    96.1    77.7       ".0    1.2   261.7   161.1   147.7   101.2   102.7   115.6   127.9   139 9   1b2 6
'0
AMVLICATNN
lawebewto                       1.0      6.4      6.7      5.T     2.1
Fid a" es"                      0.0      9.5    17.4       7.0      7.0      7.0     0.6   437.0       7.0     7.0       7.0     7.0      7.0     7.0
lireew is Cmaostructik         0.6       1.1    (4.4)             S .0   263.3   112.3  (42.6)
mcImer   to 1ge Ao eute        0.6       6.0    (0.1)                                        (1.0)
Suer. i. Suietiu LT Debt        0.6    13.7               22.0    10.0    I1.7    15.6    1s.9         9.7     0.3      8.3      4.1    0o0       00 
S . i    W Lae.                                                                                               22.1    22.7    22.7    22.7    22.1
Ducr, i. Mud. Te  Law                                                                                 87.3    37.3    80.0
DScr. Is W.C. Le.                                                                            36.0
DiVliuead. SmA.... Ca. m1    7.5    s9.0    W7.0           2.8      0.7    39.a    55.6    2a.9    22.1    26.3    30.0    81.1    39.3    43.7
Sub ta.I                     24.9    70.1    17.0    07.6    91.6   295.3   112.1    88.6    76.5   101.6    96.6    60.               M60     13 4                                    0*:
t'i
lacs...  i. Working CPital   40.0      19.6    20.7    17.2    to.4   (130)   (t 10)   62.1    26.7           1.2    36.0    b9.0    t09        79 2                                    0  I
--- ,  -- - - -  . .             -  -    . ..     ....C
Total pplicatich            72 9    96.1    77.7    "4.6l   10.2   261.7   161 1   141.7   106.2   102.1   116.6   127 9   139 9    b2 6 
1/ fLacelad after 1909.



hLuSEO A - Fim  ILIM  IlESlIUCTlUIS MJET
_____          _______,,____, ___, __               .__ ____    __ ___-----__-------------------------------------- ---------'
PT FfIRMmIN* OMSK
ACTUL 0MO  tJKCIW 9ALA8E OM  1966-1OW - VITN PAJKCT
ASMSE
3_       3W       am        l  1969  l99       91    1Ola    1993    1994    190    1n            l"9    1 1990    I99
Ciurrent AmsIs
Coo  fm  O      ti.           0.       0.        .8       1.8      7.6    11.3       00      38.5      8.8    12.7    17.7 1      .2     s 4    144.
.i.gbl.e                     M.8    84.0         .3    48.0   478.8   460.0   40.6    1.0   &42.3   861.8   66.0   664.    701 4    1428 
P'mid I                         *      8.1      a3-4      7.2      8.8      6.6      7.2      7.2      7.2      7.2    11.4    11.4    11.4    38.4
love      O                  8.0      6.3    33.4    38.3  1£80.9   181.3    11.   1£90.1   Z0.   128.8   242.9   2.0   281.1   X18 1
.,__.     .. _.   .,_._    -----    -----    -----    -----    ----              ....     .....   -- -     -- -     -----__ _
Total Correa  AiM.        81.0   411.7   708.3   611.?   6831    680.4   874.4   719.,   118.8   812.7   874.0  'I3.7  1089   11,0.0
Iwmvuem.s.                     81.2     17.6    24.2    16.0    So.a    88.3           I.1     0.8     8.1    82.1    S7.1    S7.1        8.1      8.1
Fi" mo Ass*
L"12.27 U .4    92.4  U2.4    12.4  12.4  U2.4  12.4    12.4    82.4    12.4    12.4    12.4    12.4
A ffi_~                    M.7       *.O    M.4       W1.4    M.4    37S.4    m4.O    W1.0    .-0          .0    1420   s.0          &"-    86.0
D_1_    eciatie        -Ul.& -*          -&W.4   -M.    -U. a   -2.2   -XI4.8   41.4    40.   -417.6  -441-   -475.2  -00.1  -21.9
"A fi so  Mean               2U9.4   196.2   177.4  U47.0   117.7    04.4    71.4 401.   4|0.    4a.4   em.*    M.2    MY.&   34.0
C_abnib&  ioPooe                4.0      4.0      1.7      3.      4I.~   *14.9   45§.3        2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0
0b  As*                         6.0     12.0    U2.       10.8     10.3    10.3    10.3    10.1    10.3    I*-&    10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3
T lAe"            *     n       2.    $0.3         4.0    M.S  sn2.  s 2.3  1214.7 127.2  1271.3  .7-   1S".3  13.S  U470.0  INI 2                                                           I* 
0 
p   .
4p,
N      . . Pl...



C.ereatL Lmbgil; Os       212.9   215.    "0.X   437.2   469.1   462.0   50.1    81.4   87.9    MA8.          , 61.2   4.9   670.2  712.1
Laos Ter4  b              1.*   116.5   124.2   100.1   126.6   815.6   369.5    U9.0   2".0   21. 7   1U2.7   16.9   148.2  120.5
stso copilot Ml.    1.0                      .2  1".2   *68.2   16.2   165.2    66.2   *65.2   16.2   16.2   166.2   34.2   16.2
*'@    rf_               h7*o .   .0    04.6   101.l   122.0   140.5   111.6   209.5   250.2   291.7   54.2   410.8  402.2   51S.4
s.s-;.Ta u.jas, m*1      .e    16.0   1.6   26.8   9.2   814.7   319.0   874.*   415.4   452.9  510.4   604.6  46.4    116.4
1.e1 Liabilil,10.  ;i%P    .5      .4              M$.      M .   1112.8  1214.7  1271.2  1271.8  180.5    1217.3  15.3  1471.6  1871.2
Carrea  4_eto/cWr. limb.     1.6      1.5     1.8      1.4     1.4     1.4     1.8      1.4     1.4     I 4     1.4     1 8     1.6     1.1
0.b oI# bUs                O.601   0.410   0.407   0.1    0.440   1.0         1.n    CM    0.711    0.66   0..11   0.04   0.210   0.16                                     0
1/ Pable. taelableo. I.weatwiroo *Aeuseae  .    o Veer aftr 31dw.
WISh grjeet. eewae". bSe   w hrdr    " p*e atrtle tt" #or war  mdis 104 Pe  Mo  a_.
1 .
S.. S.



- 102 -
ANNEX 7-5
Page 1
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Petrokimia Gresik Ammonia/Urea Fact!ities Project
Comparison of Production Volumes, Prices, Costs and Gross Profits
Full          Full
(1989)       production   production
Base           without        with
year           project       project
1. Gross Profit Comparison
Production (tons)
TSP                                    1,200,000    1,220,000    1,220,000
AS                                       632,000       650,000       650,000
Urea                                          --            --       460,000
Total                              1,832,000    1,870,000    2,330,000
Unit Prices (Rp/ton) /a
TSP                                      380,991       363,370       363,370
AS                                       226,458       209,430       209,930
Urea                                          --            --       256,650
Revenues (billion Rp)
TSP                                        457.2         443.3         443.3
AS                                         143.2         136.1         136.1
Urea                                          --            --         118.1
Total                                    600.4         579.4         697.5
Total Revenues/Ton (Rp/ton)            327,729       309,840       299,356
Cost of Production (billion Rp) /b               557.9         566.5          609.2
Cost of Production/ton                         304,530       302,941       251,202
Gross Profit (billion Rp)                      42.5          12.9          88.3
Gross Profit/Ton                             23,198         6,898        26,137
By-Products Gross Profit (billion Rp)          41.8          63.0          63.0
GROSS PROFIT (ALL PRODUCTS)                    84.3          75.9         151.3
(a Expressed in 1989 values:
USS per Ton (Bagged)
1989 Current Price             1989 Border Price (At Full Production)
TSP                US$215                                US$203
AS                 US$128                                US$117
Urea               US$116                                US$145
/b   See page 2 for detaiis.



- 103 -
ANNEX 7-5
Page 2
a. Comparison of Costs of Production (billion Rp)
(1989)            (1994)             (1994)
Full Production Full Production
Cost of Production /a               Base Year    Without Project   With Project
Natural Gas e US$2.OIMMBTU            -                 -                  70.8
Ammonia                              31.2              32.8                 -
Fuel oil                             21.9              21.9                 -
Rock Phosphate                      151.2             151.2               151.2
Sulfur                               77.0              77.0                77.0
Phosphoric Acid                     186.1             193.0               193.0
Other chemicals                       9.3               9.3                 8.0
Maintenance materials                20.3              20.3                20.3
Wages                                17.0              17.0                17.0
Bagging                              19.5              19.5                25.0
Other costs (Depreciation)           24.4              24.4                46.9
Total                           557.9              566.5               609.2
/a  Expressed in terms of 1989 values.
3.  Cash Costs of Production
Cost of Production             557.9              566.6               609.2
Less Depreciation               (24.4)            (24.4)              (46.9)
Cash Costs                     533.5              542.1               562.3
Difference                                                             20.2
Escalated to 1990 values                                              21.2
Equivalent US $ (millions)                                            11.8



- 104 -
ANNEX 7-5
Page 3
4. Calculation of Revenues - With Proiect
Production (Tons)
1990          1991          1992          1993          1994+
TSP        1,200,000    1,220,000    1,220,000    1,220,000    1,220,000
AS           600,000       650,. 9       650,000       650,000        650,000
UREA              --             --            --      190,000        460,000
Unit Prices (US$/ton) - 1989 Prices
TSP              215           215            215           215           203
AS               128           128            128           128           117
UREA        --------- (No Production) ---------             145           145
Unit Prices (US$/ton) - Current Prices
TSP              226           237           249            262           260
AS               134           141            147           155           150
UREA        --------- (No Production) ---------             179           187
Revenues (US$ millions) - 1989 Prices
TSP            258.0         262.3         262.3         262.3          247.7
AS              76.8          83.2          83.2           83.2          76.0
UREA              --            --             --          27.5          66.7
By-products    24.5           35.0          35.0           35.'          35.0
Total       359.3         380.5         380.5         408.0          425.4
(Rp billion)  646.7          683.7         683.7         734.4          765.7
Revenues (US$ millions) - Current Prices
TSP            271.2         289.1         3CJ.7          319.6         317.2
AS              80.4          91.6          95.6          100.7          97.5
UREA              --            --             --          34.0          86.0
By-products    24.5           38.5          40.3           42.6          44.7
Total       376.1         419.2         439.6         496.9          545.4
(Rp billion)  677.0          754.6         791.3         896.6          981.7



- 105 -
ANNEX 7-5
Page 4
5. Calculation of Revenues - Without Project
Production (Tons)
1990          1991          1992          1993          1994+
TSP        1,200,000    1,220,000    1,220,000    1,220,000    1,220,000
AS           600,000       650,000       650,000       650,000        650,000
UREA              --            --                                         --
Unit Prices (US$/ton) - 1989 Prices
TSP              215           215            215           215           203
AS               128           128            128                         117
UREA              --            --             --            --            --
Unit Prices (US$/ton) - Current Prices
TSP              226           237           249            262           260
AS               134           141            147           155           150
UREA              --            --             --            --            --
Revenues (US$ millions) - 1989 Prices
TSP            258.0         262.3         262.3         262.3          247.7
AS              76.8          83.2           83.2          83.2          76.0
UREA              --            --             --            --            -_
By-products    24.5           35.0          35.0           35.0          35.0
Total       359.3         380.5         380.5         380.5          358.7
(Rp billion). 646.7          683.7         683.7         683.7         642.4
Revenues (US$ millions) - Current Prices
TSP            271.2         289.1         303.7          319.6         317.2
AS              80.4          91.6           95.6         100.7          97.5
UREA              _             _              __
By-products    24.5           38.5          40.3           42.6          44.7
Total       376.1         419.2         439.6         462.9          459.4
(Rp billion)  677.0          754.6         791.3         833.2         826.9



- 106 -                          ANNEX 7-6
Page 1
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
F.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
Balance Sheet - 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989 (Unaudited)
(Rp billion)
As at December 31
1986      1987         1988         1989
(Unaudited)
Assets
Current Assets
Cash & S.T. Securities            238.3     371.8        398.1        437.7
Other Current Assets              248.5     291.3        311.5        310.8
Subtotal Current Assets       486.8      663.1        709.6        748.5
Investments                         .          24.4         24.4         25.0
Fixed Assets (net)                  163.9     288.3        248.3        230.4
Other Assets                         34.4        7.6         6.7         15.2
Total Assets                  685.1      983.4        989.0     1,019.0
Liabilities & Capital
Liabilities
Current Liabilities                213.8     344.5        306.9        305.7
Other Liabilities                   62.6       9.1          5.6          2.9
Long-term debt                      97.2      59.3         47.5         33.2
Subtotal Liabilities          373.6      412.9        360.0        341.8
Capital
Paid-in capital                     219.2     261.0        261.0        500.0
Retained earnings                    12.3     309.5/a      368.0/a      177.2
Subtotal Capital              311.5      570.5        629.0        677.2
Total Liabilities & Capital  685.1       983.4        989.0     1,019.0
Ratios
Net income/assets, 2                    2.2        5.4         7.8         10.0
Net income/capital, Z                   5.0        9.4        12.3         15.0
L.T. debt/equity ratio                113.2     1/9.6        1/3.2       1/20.4
/a   Includes asset revaluation surplust 1987: 172.2; 1988: 171.7.



- 107 -                          ANNEX 7-6
Page 2
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA
Income Statement - 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989 (Unaudited)
(Rp billion)
1986      1987         1988          1989
(Unaudited)
Marketing Unit Operation
Sales                               467.7      536.2        683.7         815.7
Cost of goods sold                  281.6      330.1        438.3          572.1
Gross Profit                   186.1     206.1        245.4          243.6
Marketing expenses                  172.1      187.0        214.2          236.4
Operating Protit                14.0      19.1         31.2            7.2
Other income (expense)              (16.3)       8.0          3.4           (1.7)
Government compensation               2.3        -            -              -
Marketing unit profit                 -         2;'.1        34.6            5.5
Production Unit Operation
Sales                               134.3      168.9        174.2          204.4
Cost of goods sold                  134.7      178.0        188.3          183.5
Gross Profit (loss)                  (0.4)      (9.1)       (14.1)          20.9
Other income (expense)               17.7       52.9         78.7           (0.5)
Production unit profit               17.3       43.8         64.6           20.5
Head Office Income                    -          -            -             94.4
Consolidated Profit Before Taxes   17.3         70.9         99.2          120.4
Income Taxes                          1.8       17.2         21.8           18.7
Net Income                      15.5      53.7         77.4          101.7
Ratios
Net incomelsales, Z                     2.5        7.6          9.0           10.0



- 108 -
ANNEX 7-7
Page 1
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
P.T. PUPUK KALIMANTAN TIMUR
Balance Sheet - 1986; 1987, 1988, 1989 (Unaudited)
(Rp billion)
As at December 31
1986        1987      1988       1989
(Unaudited)
Assets
Current Assets
Cash & S.T. Securities             8.9         9.5       16.5         10.0
Other current assets              89.9       137.9      187.3        257.2
Subtotal Current Assets        98.3       145.2      198.8        267.2
Investments                          -           0.2        0.2          -
Fixed Assets (net)                 687.9       743.0       843.7       771.9
Other Assets                       117.8       113.1        95.1       126.2
Total Assets                  904.5     1,006.5    1,137.8     1,165.3
Liabilities & Capital
Liabilities
Current Liabilities               94.1       106.6       132.6       155.2
Long-term debt                   351.5       124.7       200.1       309.0
Subtotal Liabilities          445.6       231.3      332.7        464.2
Capital
Paid-in capital                    458.5       763.9       774.3       655.0
Retained earnings                    0.4        11.2        30.8        46.1
Subtotal Capital              458.9       775.2      805.1        701.1
Total Liabilities & Capital   904.5     1,006.5    1,137.8      1,165.3
Ratios
Net income/assets, Z                   -           1.1         2.1         2.4
Net income/capital, 2                  0.5         1.4         3.8         4.1
L.T. debt/equity ratio               1/1.3       1/6.2       1/4.0       1/2.3



- 109 -                        ANNEX 7-7
Page 2
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
P.T. PUPUK KALIMANTAN TIMUR
Income Statement - 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989 (Unaudited)
(Rp billion)
1986       1987        1988        1989
(Unaudited)
Sales                                   84.2        166.0       232.3        259.6
Cost of goods sold                      51.9        107.9       129.2        141.7
Gross Profit                     32.3         58.1      103.1        117.9
Operating expenses                      16.6         36.4        60.6         80.1
Interest expenses                       23.8         12.9        14.4         16.5
Operating profit                 (3.1)         8.8       28.1         21.4
Other income (expense) net               3.3          2.3         3.6          8.4
Extraordinary income (expense)           2.5          -          (1.2)        (1.3)
Net Income Before Taxes          (2.3)        11.1       30.5         28.5
Taxes                                    -            0.3         6.7          -
Net Income                       (2.3)        10.8       23.8         28.5
Ratios
Net income/sales, Z                     (0.2)         6.5        10.2         10.9
Operating profit/sales, 2                (9-6)        5.3        12.0          8.2
.~~~



- 110 -
ANNEX 7-8
Page 1
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
P.T. PUPUK KUJANG
Balance Sheet - 1986, 1987, 1980, 1989 (Unaudited)
(Rp billion)
As at December 31
1986      1987       1988       1989
(Unaudited)
Assets
Current Assets
Cash & S.T. Securities                  72.4       55.9       41.2      40.8
Other current assets                    51.6       53.4       65.4      54.2
Subtotal Current Assets             124.0      109.3     106.6       95.0
Investments                                5.3        9.1       23.8       28.8
Fixed Assets (Net)                        36.3       30.2       36.1       37.5
Other Assets                              14.1       16.3       11.5        8.4
Total Assets                        179.7      164.9     178.0      169.7
Liabilities and Capital
Liabilities
Current liabilities                       28.2       22.6       25.7       17.9
Long term debt                              6.6       -          -          -
Other liabilities                           0.1       1.3        1.5        2.0
Total Liabilities                    34.9       23.9      27.2       19.9
Capital
Paid-in capital                           75.0       75.0       75.0       75.0
Retained earnings                         69.8       66.0       45.8       74.8
Total Capital                       144.8      141.0     150.8      149.8
Total Liabilities & Capital             179.7      164.9      178.0     169.7
Ratios
Net Income/Assets                            13.2       2.4        7.1        4.9
Net Income/Capital                           16.4       2.8        8.4        5.5
L.T. Debt/Equity Ratio                    1/10.6        0          0          0



- 111 -
ANNEX 7-8
Page 2
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
P.T. PUPUK KUJANG
Income Statement - 1986, 1987, 1980, 1989 (Unaudited)
(Rp billion)
1986      ;987       1988      1989
(Unaudited)
Sales                                        70.7       68.6       80.3       83.1
Cost of goods sold                         53.5       57.7       62.5       68.1
Gross Profit                             17.2       10.9       17.8       15.0
Marketing expense                            2.3        -          -         -
Gen. and Administrative                     7.6        7.8       10.4       13.9
Interest expense                            1.5        1.1        1.8        0.5
Operating Profit                          5.8        2.0        5.6        0.6
Other income (expense) net                  8.4        8.2       10.5        8.9
Extraordinary income                       11.9
Net Income Before Taxes                  26.1       10.2       16.1        9.5
Taxes                                       2.4        6.3        3.4        1.2
Net Income                               23.7        3.9       12.7        8.3
Ratios
Net income/sales, Z                           33.5        5.7       15.8       10.0
Operating profit/sales, 2                      8.2        2.9        7.0        0.7



- 112 -
ANNEX 7-9
Page 1
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
P.T. PUPUK ISKANDAR MUDA (PIM)
Balance Sheet - 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989 (Unauidited)
(Rp billion)
As at December 31
1986      1987       1988    1989
(Unaudited)
Assets
Current Assets
Cash & S.T. Securities                  51.5        52.2      101.3    65.3
Other Current Assets                    12.3        13.3       16.4    15.5
Subtotal Current Assets              63.8        68.5     117.7    80.3
Investments                                -           0.1        0.2     0.3
Fixed Assets (net)                       237.5       228.1      221.2   211.5
Other assets                              24.9        23.5       22.5    25.3
Total Assets                        326.2       320.2     361.6   317.9
Liabilities & Capital
Liabilities
Current liabilities                     49.1        34.6       64.4    20.3
Long-term debt                         119.7        92.2       98.2    99.6
Total Liabilities                   168.8       126.8     162.6   119.9
Capital
Paid-in capital                          152.3       184.4      184.4   184.3
Retained earnings                          5.1         9.0       14.6    13.7               !
Total Capital                       157.4       193.4      199.0   198.0               U
Total Liabilities & Capital         326.2       320.2     361.6   317.9
Ratios
Net Income/Assets, 1                          0.6        1.7        2.6      1.5
Net Income/Capital. X                         1.3        2.8        4.8      2.4
L.T. Debt/Equity Ratio                     1/1.3       1/2.1      1/2.0   1/1.9



- 113 -                         ANNEX 7-9
Page 2
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
P.T. PUPUK ISKANDAR NUDA (PIM)
Income Statement - 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989 (Unaudited)
(Rp billion)
As at December 31
1986      1987       1988    1989
(Unaudited)
Sales
Urea - Bulk                               80.9        74.2       75.8    69.4
Urea - Bagged                               8.8       16.6       20.2    25.4
Total                                89.7        90.8       96.0    94.8
Other fertilizer sales                     2.7         2.0        1.9      2.2
Total Gross Sales                    92.4        92.8       97.9    97.0
Cost of goods sold                           54.4       54.7       56.0    63.5
Gross Profit                         38.0        38.1       41.9    33.5
Marketing expense                             3.9         3.2       2.9      3.6
Administrative overhead                      30.6       29.6       28.7    26.7
Subtotal Overhead                    34.5        32.8       31.6    30.3
Other income (expense) net                    1.3        0.2        1.5      1.6
Extraordinary income (expense)               (2.7)       -         (2.3)    -
Net Income Before Taxes               2.1         5.5        9.5     4.8
Taxes                                         -           -         -        -
Net Income                            2.1         5.5        9.5     4.8
Ratios
Net Income/Sales, Z                           2.3        5.9        9.7      4.9
Operating Profit/Sales, 2                     3.9         5.8      10.5      3.3



- 114 -
ANNEX 7-10
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
GRESIK AMMONIA/UREA FACILITY
Incremental Cash Flow for Financial Rate of Return
(US$ million in 1990 prices)
1995 to
1990     1991      1992     1993      1994      2006
Incremental Production (tons)
Urea (Bagged)                                        190,000  460,000  460,000
Unit Price (US$/ton)                                        155      155       155
Incremental Revenues (US$ million)                        29.4      71.3      71.3
Incremental Cash Cper. Costs                     2.0      (8.0)     11.8      11.8
Capital Costs
Investment                 32.2    140.7    62.4         7.5
Working Capital                      20.0
Subtotal                32.2    160.7    64.4         7.5
Net Cash Flow                (32.2)  (160.7)  (64.4)       29.9     59.5      59.5
Financial Rate of Return (FRR)  -  16.6 X (base) (1993 urea border price = $155/ton)
IBRD price projections for Urea - 20.1Z
80Z of IBRD price projections = 15.3Z
Construction period extended by five months (until 1994) = 15.1?
Capital costs increased by 20Z   13.6Z
Lengthened construction period and capital costs increased by 20? = 12.3Z
Existing (1990) internal prices ($125/ton) for urea = 12.2Z
AS5IE
October 1990



- 115 -                         ANNEX 7-11
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTSRUCTURING PROJECT
PUSRI OPTIMIZATION SUBPROJECT
Incremental Cash FLows for Financial Rates of Return
(US$ million in 1990 prices)
1995 to
1990     1991      1992      1993      1994      2006
Incremental Production (Tons)
Urea - Bulk                                   120,500 130,000  180,000  180,000
Unit Prices (US$/ton)
Urea - Bulk                125       125          125      125       125      125
Ammonia (Input)            100       100          100      100       100      100
Incremental Revenues (US$ million)                 15.1    22.5      22.5      22.5
Incremental Oper. Costs (US$ million)
Ammonia                                           6.6    22.5       22.5     22.5
Utilities                                         0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2
Maintenance                                       0.8      1.5       1.5       1.5
Subtotal                                       7.6    11.6      11.6      11.6
Capital Costs (US$ million)  7.8        14.0        9.3
Net Cash Flow                  (7.8)   (14.0)    (1.8)    10.9        10.9      10.9
Financial rate of Return (FRR) = 321.
AS5IE
October 1990



- 116 -                         ANNEX 7-12
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
KALTIM AMMONIA/UREA OPTIMIZATION SUBPROJECT
Incremental Cash Flow for Financial Rate of Return
(US$ million in 1990 prices)
1995 to
1993     1991      199)2    1993      1994      2006
Incremental Production (tons)
Urea (Prill & Bulk)                                  126,225  126,225  126,225
Unit Prices (US$/tonW                                                            l
Urea (Bulk)               131       131      131         131       131       131
Incremental Revenues
*US$ million)               -         -       -         16.5      16.5     16.5
Incremental Oper. Costs        -        -        -         0.7       0.7       0.7
Capital Costs                  1.1     10.4    17.5        12.4
Net Cash Flow                J(.0)   (10.4)  (17.5)         3.4     15.8      15.8
Financial Rate of Return (FRR)  - 37Z
ASSIE
October 1990



- 117 -
ANNEX 7-13
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
KUJANG AMMONIA OPTMIZATION SUBPROJECT
Incremental Cash Flow for Financial Rate of Return
(USS million in 1990 prices)
1995 to
1990     1991      1992     1993      1994     2006
Incremental Production (tons)
Ammonia                                               30,000   30,000   30,000
Unit Prices USS/ton         100       100     100          100      100       100
Incremental Revenues (USS million)                         3.0      3.0       3.0
Incremental Oper. Costs                                    0.2      0.2       0.2
Capital Costs                 -         6.5     8.4
Net Cash Flow                 -        (6.5)   (8.4)       2.8      2.8       2.8
Financial Rate of Return (FRR) = 162
AS5IE
October 1990



- 118 -
ANNEX 7-14
Page 1
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURIN. PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Economic Analysis
A. Capital Cost Estimate
1.        The economic capital cost for the various components of the Project
have been derived from the financial capital cost (in constant 1990 prices) by
excluding the price escalation and interest during construction. There are no
duties and taxes included in the financial capital costs and as such there are
no adjustments for them in developing the economic capital costs. The
estimates use, conservatively, a standard conversion factor of cne and
exchange rate of $1 = Rp 1,830 for converting local costs in US dollar
equivalent.
B. Working Capital
2.        In the case of the optimization component, the incremental working
capital would be very small and has been ignored for the analysis. For the
Petrokimia Gresik ammonia/urea facilities project, working capital
requirements have been derived from the financial projections of current
assets and liabilities with the project, assuming adequate operating cash
balances and inventories and are estimated at $20.0 million.
C. Revenues
3.        The incremental revenues for the Project will come mainly through
sales of additional outputs of ammonia and urea. The Gresik ammonia/urea
project will, however, provide ammonia to the existing facilities,
substituting ammonia now being obtained from a small fuel oil based plant.
The revenues of the existing Gresik facilities are obtained from the
production and sales of TSP and ammonium sulfate. The economic prices of the
above products have been derived from the October 19, 1989 revision of the
commodity forecasts of the Bank's Commodity Studies and Projections Division.
Since Indonesia is a significant net exporter of ammonia and urea, the
economic prices of these two products are based on projected export (FOB)
prices. In the case of TSP and ammonium sulfate, Indonesia is not a
competitive producer and is also a significant net importer of TSP. The
economic prices of these two products have been derived on landed cost basis.
The ammonia price has been taken as 80 percent of the bulk urea price obtained
by deducting $20 per ton for bagging from the bagged FOB urea price. The FOB
ammonium sulfate price has been derived, on nutrient basis from the bulk urea
prices, a premium of 25 percent added to reflect consumer preference and the
presence of secondary nutrient sulfur. Additions have then been made for
freight, landing costs and bagging. All the product prices are expressed in
1990 dollar terms.



- 119 -                         ANNEX 7-14
Page 2
Economic Prices of Fertilizer Products
($ per ton in 1990 prices)
1990       1995        2000
Urea          Bagged        FOB             125         195        180
Avionia       Bulk          In ship          84         140        128
TSP           Bagged        Landed          194         243        257
AS            Bagged        Landed          102         138        131
D. Operating Costs
4.        The economic value of natural gas for the Gresik ammonia/urea
project and the Kujang ammonia optimization has been assumed to be equivalent
to its fuel oil value. At the projected crude oil prices (in 1989 dollars) of
$15.5 in 1990, $15.4 in 1995 and $22.8 in 2000, the economic gas price for the
above two projects will be $2.2/MMBtu in 1990, $2.2/MMBtu in 1995 and $3.2 in
2000 and afterwards. The existing Gresik facilities use purchased sulfur,
rock phosphate and phosphoric acid. The projected rock phosphate prices have
been obtained from the Bank's latest commodity projections. The economic
prices of the other inputs have been derived taking into account price
linkages among the various inputs and outputs and are summarized in the table
below. In most cases, power and steam are obtained from captive facilities
and their operating costs are reflected in the natural gas consumption. The
financial costs of other inputs have been suitably adjusted to reflect
economic costs.
Economic Costs of Major Fertilizer Inputs
($ per unit in 1990 prices)
1990       1995        2000
Crude oil           FOB          Bbl            15.5        15.4        22.8
Natural gas                      MMBtu           2.2         2.2         3.2
Rock Phosphate      Landed       ton            71.0        76.0        78.0
Sulfur              Landed       ton           135.0       229.0      241.0
Phosphoric Acid    Landed        ton           530.0       612.0       633.0
AS5IE
June 1990



IMONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Gresik A onla/Urma Proi ct
Int.arar L coa Dl-X -conomic Rat of Return
tua miI Iion in 1vw prices)
1990    1991    1992   1998   1994    1995    1906   1997    1999   1999   2000   2006
to
2007
I. Input/Output Prices
Ur" aFOB                               125    128    140    1s5    176         196     192    189      186   la    1S0    180
Aumonia        FOB                      84     s6      96      110    125     140      188    186     183    180    128       128
Landed                  109    1ll    121       1as    1S0    165       le8    16O     1s8    1SS    1ss    158
Rock Phosphate Landd                    74     75      75       76     78      76      76      77      77      78      78      78
Sulfur         Landed                  136     1S0    170    199    214       229    231    284       286    238    241       241
Phos. Acid    Londed                   530     548    562      579    895     612     617    620    f26    627    688         683
A. Sulfato   Landed                    102    109    116    128    18o        la8    18       184     1a8    182    131       lal
TSP           Landed                   194    201    208    220    282        243     24E    248    251       154    257      267
Natural Gas                            2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2        2.2    2.4    2.6       2.8    8.0    8.2       8.2
II. With the Project - Flow of Economic Resources
1.  Capital Resources Used
Capital cost                        (32.2) (140.70   (2.4)   (7.6)                                                          (19.2) 2
Working Capitol                            (10.7X                                                                             (2.7)
Total                            (82.2) (160.7)  (62.4)   (7.5)                                                           (21.8)
2.  Economic Valuo of Production
TSP                                  282.8  241.2  249.6  264.0  278.4  291.6  294.0  297.6  301.2  804.8  308.4  806.4
Am. Sulfate                          66.3   70.9   76.5   80.0   84.5   89.7   88.4   87.1   86.5   85.8   85.2   85.2
Urea                                                          80.0   64.8   89.7   88.8   s8.9   85.6   84.2   82.8   82.8
Others                                15.8   15.8   15.8   16.8   16.8   16.8   16.8   15.8   16.8   16.8   16.8   16.8
Total                             814.9   827.9   841.9   389.8  448.5  4sj.e   486.6  487.4  489.1   490.8  492.2   492.2
8.  Economic Variable Costs
Fuel oil                              19.8    19.8   19.8   12.0
Natural Gas                                                   12.2   29.9   87.4   40.8   44.2   47.6   61.0   64.4    64.4
Amonis                                18.2    18.5   14.7    9.8
Sulfur                                88.5    87.2   42.2    49.4   53.1   56.8   57.8   58.0   68.5   59.0   59.8    59.8
Rock Phosphate                       88.6   87.8   87.8   87.8   88.9   88.9   88.9   90.1   90.1   9to.1   91.8   91.3
Phosphoric Acid                      127.7  182.1  135.4  189.6  148.2  147.6  148.7  149.4  150.6  161.1  152.6   162.6
Alumna                                 2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6    2.6        2.6    2.6    2.6       2.6    2.6    2.6       2.6       03
Utilities                              7.7     7.7    7.7    7.7   11.4   11.4   11.4   11.4   11.4   11.4   11.4   11.4                go
Chmicals                               .6.    6.6    6.6    6.6    6.4        6.4     6.4    6.4      6.4    6.4    6.4    6.4          m
Bagging                               13.8   18.8   18.8   14.6   15.6   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0                    X
Total                             811.4   821.0  880.5   842.0  851.1  a87.0   872.1   878.1   383.2  3s7.8  394.5   894.5
___* *



1990    1991    1992    1998    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    19m      2000    2008
to
2007
4.  Economic Fixed Costa
Maintenance                           18.8    18.8    18.8   18.8   14.1   ¶4.1    14.1   14.1   14.1   14.1   14.1   14.1
Salaries and wages                    15.1I   15.1I   15.1   15.1    15.1   15.1    15.1   15.1   15.1    15.1I   15.1   15.1
Other costa                            7.6     7.5     7.5      7.5     7.5     7.5     7.5     7.5     7.5     7.5     7.6     7.6
Total                              85.9    85.9   86.9   85.9 s     8.7   86.7   86.7    86.7   86.7    86.7   86.7    86.7
S.  Nat Rosoure Flow                       84.6) (189.7)  (86.9)    4.4    55.7   88.1    77.7   72.6   69.2    66.8    81.0    82.8
III. WIihou  tn- rro-lct - Flow of Economic Rt-urces                 -
1.  Economic Volua   of Production
TSP                                  282.8   241.2   249.8   264.0   278.4   291.6   294.0   297.8  801.2   804.8   808.4   808.4
Am. Sulfate                           66.8   70.9   76.4    80.0    84.5    89.7    88.4    87.1   s8.6    85.8    86.2    86.2
Others                                15.8    15.8    15.8    15.8    15.8    15.6    15.8    15.8    15.8    15.8    15.8    15.8
Total                             814.9  827.9  840.8  859.8  878.7  897.1   898.2  400.6  40a.6   408.4  409.4  409.4
2.  Economic Variable Costs
Fuel Oil                              19.8    19.8    19.8    19.8    19.8   19.8    21.6   28.4   25.2    27.0   28.8   28.8
Amonia                                18.2   18.5    14.7    10.4    18.2   20.0    19.9    19.4   19.2    18.8   18.8   18.6
Sulfur                                88.5   87.2   42.2    49.4   58.1    56.8    57.8   58.0   58.5    59.0   59.8   59.8
Rock Phosphato                        86.6    87.8    87.8   87.6   88.9   88.9    88.9   90.1   90.1    90.1    91.8   91.8
Phosphoric Acid                      127.7  182.1  185.4  189.5  148.2  147.6  148.7  149.4  150.6  151.1   152.8   162.6
Alum Ino                               2.6     2.6     2.8     2.6      2.6   21.6      2.8     2.6    2.6      2.6     2.6     2.6
Utilities                              7.7     7.7     7.7      7.7     7.7     7.7     7.7     7.7     7.7     7.7     7.7     7.7
Chemicals                   ~~~~6.5  6.5     6.5      6.5     6.5     6.5     6.5     6.5     6.5     6.5     6.5     6.5
eggingls                              18.8   18.8 18.          18.8   1868    18.8    18.8   18.8   18.8    18.8    13.8    18.8
Total                             811.4   821.0   880.5   848.5   858.8  868.6   a.9  870.9  874.2   878.6  861.7  861.7
4.  Economic Fixed Costa
Maintenance                           18.8    18.8    18.8    18.8    18.8    18.8    18.8   18.8   18.8    18.8    a8.8    18.8
SlarIes and wages                    15.1   15.1    15.1   15.1    15.1   15.1    15.1   15.1   15.1    15.1   15.1   15.1
Other costs                            7.5     7.5     7.5     7.5      7.5     7.5     7.5     7.56    7.      7.5     7.5     7.5
Total                              86.9    86.5   85.9    86.9    85.9    85.9    86.9    86.9    86.9    86.9   85.9   86.9
S.  Net Resource Flow                     (82 .4   29 C   (26.8)  (19.§)  (11.0) . 2.4) 11J.1   (S. )   (e.§)   (Sl. )   (8.2)   B.
IV. Net Incremental Cash Flow Due to Prolect
(82.2) (160.7)  (61.8)   24.0   86.7    85.5    82.8    78.9   75.8    72.4   69.2    91.0
Economic Rate of Return of the investment on the total complex - 20.7X.                                                                        '  A
ASSIE                                                                                                                                          I.
October 1990                                                                                                                                    O  1
LFh 
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PUSRI Urea II Urea Optimization Project
Cash FLows for £conomic Rate of Return
(US2 million in 1990 prices)
1990    1991    1992    1998    1994    1996    1998    1997    1998    1999    2000    2000
to
2007
I.   Inout/Outrut Price.
Urea            FOB - bulk               106      108     120      188     156      175     172      169     168      168     160      160
Ammonia         FOB                       84       66      96      110     126      140     188      18S     la      180     128      128
I.  Capital Resources Used
Capital Cost                            (7.8)  (18.1)   (8.7)                                                                          2.8
Total                               t(7.8)  (13.1)   (.7)                                                                           2.8
III. Economic Value of Production
Ures                                                     18.7    23.8    28.6    29.9    29.4    28.9    28.4    27.8    27.8    27.8
Total                                                 18.7    28.6    28.6    29.9    29.4    28.9    28.4    27.8    27.8    27.a
IV.  Economic Production Costs
Ammonia                                                   8.8    10.9    12.4    18.9    18.7    18.4    18.2    12.9    12.7    12.7
Utilities                                                 0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2
Maintenance                                               0.8      1.6     1.5      1.6     1.5      1.5     1.5      1.6     1.5      1.6
Total                                                  7.8    12.8    14.1    16.6    16.4    16.1    14.9    14.6    14.4    14.4
V.   Net Resource Flow                        (7.8)  (1.l)   (2.8)   11.0    12.5    14.8    14.0    13.8    13.5    13.2    12.9    16.7
Base Economic Rate of Return - a7.2x.
ASSIE
October 1990



INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
KALTIM I Ammonia/Urea Proiect
Cash Flows for Economic Rate of Return
(USf million in 1990 prices)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1996    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2008
to
2007
1.   Input/Output Prices
Urea Prill      FOB bulk                  10S      108      120     138      166      176     172      169      166     183      160      160
Urea Granules  FOB bulk                   115      118      130     148      166      18S     182      179      176     173      170      170
Ammonia                 FOB                        84      86       96      110      125     140      138      135     133      130      128     128
II.  With the Project - Flow of Economic Resources                                                                                                         N)
1. Caoital Resources Used
Capital Cost                             (1.0)   (9.7)  (16.4)  (11.6)                                                                    3.8
Total                                 (1.0)   (9.7)  (16.4)  (11.6)                                                                   3.8
2. Economic Value of Production
Total Output                             62.6    64.2    71.6    97.1   120.3   134.7   132.5   130.1   127.9   125.6   123.3   123.3
3. Economic Production Costs
Natural Gas                              19.4    19.4    19.4    18.3    19.7    19.7    19.7    19.7    19.7    19.7    19.7    19.7
Catalysts etc.                            1.1      1.1      1.1     1.3      1.4      1.4     1.4      1.4      1.4     1.4      1.4      1.4
Maintenance                               2.7      2.7     2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7     2.7      2.7      2.7     2.7      2.7      2.7
Operating overhead                       10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Indirect costs                            2.5      2.S     2.5      2.5      2.6      2.5     2.6      2.5      2.6     2.5      2.5      2.5
Total                                 35.7    36.7    36.7    34.8    36.3    38.3    36.3    36.3    36.3    36.3    36.3    36.3
4. Net Resource Flow                        25.8    18.8    19.4    50.7    84.0    98.4    96.2    93.8    91.6    89.2    87.0    90.8
III. Without the Proiect - Flow of Economic Resources
1. Economic Value of Production                                                                                                                             4
0 O
Total Output                             62.5    64.2    71.5    82.1    92.9   104.2   102.5   100.6    98.9    97.0    95.3    95.3
Total                                 62.5    64.3    71.5    82.1    92.9   104.2   102.5   100.6    98.9    97.0    95.3    95.3



1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2008
to
2007
2. Economic Variable Costs
Natural gas                           19.4   19.4   19.4    19.4    19.4    19.4    19.4   19.4    91.4    19.4    19.4    19.4
Catalysts etc.                         1.1     1.1     1.1      1.1     1.1     1.1     1.1     1.1     1.1     1.1     1.1     1.1
Maintenance                            2.7     2.7     2.7     2.7      2.7     2.7     2.7     2.7     2.7     2.7     2.7     2.7
Operating overheamd                   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0    10.0
Indirect costs                         2.6     2.6    2.6      2.6     2.6      2.5     2.6     2.5     2.6     2.6     2.6     2.6
Total                              35.7   35.7   35.7    36.7    86.7    35.7    85.7   35.7    36.7    36.7   86.7    36.7
3. Net Resource F!ow                     26.8   28.6   a6.8   46.4   57.2   88.5   86.8   84.9   83.2   61.3    69.6   59.6
IV. Net Incremental Cash Flow Due to Proiect
(1.0)   (9.8)  (16.4)    4.3    28.8   29.9    29.4   28.9   28.4    27.9   27.4    31.2            I'
Economic Rate of Return of the investment - 67.1X
ASSIE
October 1990
0 
0I



- 125 -                            ANNEX 7-17
Page 3 of 3
P.T. Pupuk Kalimantan Timur, Bonang, Indonesia
Economic Evaluation of Kaltim - I Optimization Project
1990    1991    1992   1993 on  Assumptions
Production - Without Optimization in '000 tons               Product Price ($/ton)
Urea Prills            459.60  459.60  459.60  459.60    Urea Prills             140.00
Ammonia                170.00  170.00  170.00  170.00    Urea Gran.              150.00
Production - With Optimizaiton - in tons                       Ammonia              100.00
Urea Prills            459.60  459.60  512.30  512.30  Gas Price (I/MMBTU)         1.00
Urea Granules                            55.70  118.80  Gas usage (MMBTU/ton
Ammonia (in tons)      170.00  170.00  165.00  165.00    Before optimizaiton
Gross Revenue (in million US$)                                   Ammonia             44.00
Without optimization   81.34   81.34   81.34   81.34          Urea                26.00
With optimization       81.34   81.34   96.58  106.05    After optmization
Through optimization    0.00    0.00   15.24   24.70          Ammonia             37.0C
Urea                21.50
Operating Costs - Without Optimization                       Catalyst ($ per ton)
Natural gas             19.43   19.43   19.43   19.43    Ammonia                   2.50
Catalysts & chemical    1.11    1.11    1.11    1.11    Urea                       1.50
Maintenance              2.70    2.70    2.70    2.70  Investment (in mill $) 41.00
Operating overheads    10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00           Cash                Cash
Indirect costs           2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50          Flow                Flow
Operating Costs - With Optimization                             1990    (14.35)   31.2
Natural gas             19.43   19.43   18.32   19.67        1991    (20.50)   25.0
Catalysts & chemical    1.11    1.11    1.26    1.36         1992     10.05    55.6
Maintenance              2.70    2.70    2.70    2.70        1993     24.21    69.8
Operating overheads    10.00   10.00   10.00   10.00         1994     24.21    69.8
Indirect costs           2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50        1995     24.21    69.8
1996     24.21    69.8
Net Revenue (in million US$)                                    1997     24.21    69.8
Without optmization    45.60   45.60   45.60   45.60         1998     24.21    69.8
With optimization       45.60   45.60   61.80   69.81        1999     24.21    69.8
Due to optimization      0.00    0.00   16.20   24.21        2000     24.21    69.8
2001     24.21    69.8
Investment                                                      2002     24.21    69.8
(in million US$)       14.35   20.50    6.15               2003      24.21    69.8
2004     24.21    69.8
Net Cash Flow (in million USS)                                  2005      24.21    69.8
With optimization       31.25   25.10   55.65   69.81        2006     24.21    69.8
Due to optimization   (14.35) (20.50)  10.05   24.21
Economic Rate of Return from Optimization                       471
NPV with Optimization at 15Z (million US$)                      346



- 126 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
A. Key Impl mentation Indicators
Action                             Responsibility                   Target Date
A. Loan Effectiveness                   Government/Bank                  May 1991
B. Policy Measures
(a)  Annual consultations            Government/Bank                  Not later than October
1991, and th-reafter
C. Gresik Restructuring
(a) Ammonia/urea plant:
- start construction            Greslk/Contractor/Licensors      October 4, 1990
- construction and              Gresik/Contractor/Licensors      January 1994
commissioning completed
(b)  Plant Modernization             Gresik/Consultants               Not later than
- Feasibility Study and                                          June 80, 1992
EIA
(c)  Preparation of EMP              Gresik                           Not later than
November 80, 1991
D. Optimization Subprojects
- Feasibility Studies and       PFEs/Consultants                 Not later than
EIAs                                                           June 30, 1992
E. Studies
(a) Marketing and Distribution
- Setting up Steering           GOI/MOI                          Not later than May 1, 1991
Committee
- Start                         GOI/MOI/PUSRI/Consultents        June 1, 1991
- Completion                    Consultants                      March 1, 1992
- Agreement on follow-up        GOI/Bank                         May 1, 1992
actions by GOI
(b) Development of EMP for the
Fertilizer Sector
- Setting up Steering           GOI/MOI                          Not later than May 1, 1991
Committee
- Start                         GOI/MOI/Consultants              June 1, 1991
- Completion                    Consultants                      March 1, 1992
- Agreement on follow-up        GOI/Bank                         May 1, 1992
actions by GOI



- 127 -
ANiNEX 8
Page 2
B. Supervision Plan
Bank Supervision Input
1.         The total Bank supervision input is estimated at about 10 staff-
weeks (SW) during FY91, 12 SW during FY92 and 10 SW annually from FY93 through
FY97. The field supervision schedule is given in the table below.
GOI's Contribution to Supervision
2.         Project Monitoring and Coordination will be the responsibility of
the Directorate General of Chemical Industry of the MOI. This Directorate
will be responsible for coordinating with the participating fertilizer
enterprises (PFEs) arrangements for Bank supervision missions and for
providing information requested by the Bank.
3.         All PFEs will submit semi-annual progress reports (in English),
generally following the format being used for Loan 2879-IND (Industrial Energy
Conservation Project) and covering their respective operations under the
Project.
FIELD SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
Approximate
Dates               Activity                   Expected skill requirements           SW
02/91       Project Start-up                Engineering, procurement, project     4.0
management
06/91       Progress review: A/U construc-  Engineering, procurement, environment,   4.0
tion, optimization subprojects   financial analysis, project management
APR. and EIAs.
11/91       Progress review: A/U construc-  Engineering, procurement, financial   4.0
tion; optimization subprojects;  analysis, project management,
studies; Gresik's EMP.         environment
02/92       Progress review: A/U construc-  Engineering, procurement, financial   4.0
tion; optimization subprojects;  analysis, project management
studies
06/92       Progress reviow: A/U construc-  Engineering, procurement, financial   4.0
tion; optimization subprojects;  analysis, project management
review of studies and agreement
on follow-up actions by 001.
11/92       Progress review: A/U construc-  Engineering, financial analysis, pro-   4.0
tion; optimization subprojects   ject management
1993 to      Two supervision misisons        Engineering, financial analysis, pro-   4.0
1997       annually for progress review;    ject management                       each
last mission to assist MOI in
preparation of PCR.



- 128 -                            ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A.   P.T. Petrokimia Gresik
-    Environmental Impact Study of Petrokimia Gresik Industrial Area -
Executive Summary, June 1990.
-    Annual Reports, 1986, 1987, 1988.
-    Unaudited Financial Statements, 1989.
-    Invitation to Bid, Gresik Ammonia/Urea Facilities, October 1989.
-    Bid Evaluation Report, Gresik Ammonia/Urea Facilities, June 1990.
B.   P.T. PUSRI
-    Annual Reports, 1986, 1987, 1988.
-    Unaudited Financial Statement, 1989.
C.   '.T. Pupuk Iskandar Muda
-    Annual Reports 1986, 1987, 1988.
-    Unaudited Financial Standards, 1989.
D.   P.T. Pupuk Kalimantan Timur
-    Annual Reports, 1988.
-    Summary Financial Statements, 1986, 1987.
-    Unaudited Financial Statements, 1989.
E.   P.T. Pupuk Kuyang
-    Summary Financial Statements, 1986, 1987, 1988.
-    Unaudited Financial Statements, 1989.
F.   Indonesia - Fertilizer Restructuring Project
Participating Fertilizer Enterprises: Status and Performance
Report prepared by S. Gangophadyay (Consultant) during Project
pre-appraisal; November 1989, AS5IE



MAP SECTION



tBRD 2214AIR
_  ~~   teA    ~THAiLAND                                                                                                                                dRIPINDONESIAIM21R
F'  I  /                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINESINOSA
so' s )                                                                                                     N',              -HILIP                                                FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING  PROJECT
,     K  -.                                                                                           UUIJNE               \          (
\   t                                                                          E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUNEI C                                                                                   eTI1S PAT
MALAYSIA                                 U -      I _
K) rclA BKHFFLAFKFFKU  UFFICF OFPeuKK
< g S >                                   r                                                                                                                     u- TERM NALS          S E I8R > 114S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. 1
F.. ',la                                     e                                     \MALAYS     I  A                                                                                                                     B  60FOKU-B
..U""-SINCGAPORE                                                                                                                                                                         FF --KOK'FA
U'"                                                                                                     F O<  >  x /  _ rJ  XHAIMA#FER  - - - INTER~ATIO^t BOUNDA-IER
U'                         \   ,<r              Stv                                 1      A   I   /  M   A  N   r  A   N Aol
U     RA }U                                                                                           $ U 5 'I A WA /                                                        ,_s                 -      / R /A   ~    A r     TESo
I..-  F'o,OFOFF                                                                                                           FHKFHF             KHK,H    14/~~~~~~~~~~~~IRAN    JAOA
10. 1e;0   \\            v              ts \~~~~~~~AC /CL/FU/C                         K)nr ,,             \                                                              0    f'EAM
-'O                                ½b.-.\   \,\/                                                       \                                                                       o B I  oUU
SO0'FOoHF                 F_rtKFler     Ola nL  KOFF                                            f                 |                                                                                                                                                        t
tOFOFO                    00FF ShooF D IFFF KUJANc.                             b                                         tUM  WA MJAW
KFIOHF. Fi,               KOJSUUF.C                                KOFO
KFU,o' Fe.KF  Be9r          KOFO BOtt   '
.  1               'l                                                           l                              '                                                                                       NOVEMBERl9f(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOEER19



