Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18125
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 3282-IND)
June 29 1998
Private Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
Appraisal Report US$1  Rp 1,830
ICR (Dec 1997) US$1 =Rp 5,000
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AS            - Ammonium Sulfate
Ekku Wasbang - Coordinating Ministry for Economic, Finance and Development
Supervision
FSP           - Fertilizer Sector Policies
Gresik        - PT Petrokimia Gresik, Gresik
ICR           - Implementation Completion Report
Kaltim        - PT Pupuk Kalimantan Timur, Bontang
Kujang        - PT Pupuk Kujang, Cikampek
MOA           - Ministry of Agriculture
MOIT          - Ministry of Industry and Trade
PFC           - Participating Fertilizer Company
PIM           - PT Pupuk Iskandar Muda, Aceh
Pusri         - PT Pupuk Sriwijaya, Palembang
SAR           - Staff Appraisal Report
tpd           - Tons per Day
tpy           - Tons per Year
TSP           - Triple Superphosphate
Vice President    Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director   Dennis N. de Tray, EACIF
Sector Manager    Hoon Mok Chung, EASPS
Task Manager      Kunrat Wirasubrata, Operations Officer, EACIF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE .   iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY.                                                                                                      v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............................................I
A. Project Objectives and Description ........................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ........................................................2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ...........................6
D. Project Sustainability ........................................................6
E. Bank Performance ...................                                                                       7
F. Borrower Performance ........................................................7
G. Assessment of Outcome ............. ......................................                                 8
H. Future Operations ........................................................8
1. Key Lessons Learned ........................................................8
PART  II: STATISTICAL  TABLES .......................................................                                   10
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments .............................................                              10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .                             1
Table 3: Project Timetable.                                                                                  I I
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .                                     1'
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .12
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations .12
Table 7: Studies included in Project .13
Table 8a:  Project Costs ............................................                                        13
Table 8b:  Project Financing ............................................                                    13
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................,,.,,.,.          14
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ..................................................                      14
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................... 15
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..................................................                   15
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ..................                      ................................ 16
ANNEX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE ..................................................                                   17
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON THE ICR ................................................ 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- III -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 3282-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fertilizer
Restructuring Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 3282-IND in the amount of US$221.7
million equivalent was approved on December 20, 1990 and made effective on March 26,
1991.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1997. Final disbursement took place on
October 8, 1997. A balance of US$6,526,911 was canceled as of December 31, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Kunrat Wirasubrata (Operations Officer/Task Team
Leader, EACIF), with contributions from Kurt M. Constant (Senior Industrial Specialist,
IENIM), Thomas Walton (Senior Environment Specialist, EACIF) and Unggul
Suprayitno (Financial Analyst, EACIF). Hoon Mok Chung, Sector Manager, Private
Sector Development Unit, EAP reviewed the report.
Preparation of this ICR, which began during the Bank's final supervision mission
in October 1997, was based on materials in the project file. The Government commented
on the draft but did not prepare a separate evaluation.






- v -
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 3282-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Fertilizer Sector Restructuring Project (the Project), for which this
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is prepared, was designed based on the Bank's
fertilizer sector work in 1988. This is the last in a series of Bank-supported projects in the
Indonesian fertilizer sector that began in 1970.
2.    The fertilizer industry in Indonesia is characterized by highly administered feed
stock and product prices, an inefficient distribution system and excessive end-user
consumption, which had led to the industry's potential being not optimally cultivated. To
address this issue, the Government had in 1990 produced a Statement of Fertilizer Sector
Policies aiming at improved sector efficiency and performance.
Project Objectives
3.    The Project's objectives were: (a) to assist the Government in implementing the
Statement of Fertilizer Sector Policies (FSPs), which focused on adjustment of fertilizer
prices to reflect their economic prices, leading to gradual elimination of the associated
subsidy payments from the government budget; (b) identify the scope for improved
efficiency in marketing and distribution; (c) assess the industry's environmental impact
and standards, and prepare an environmental management program; and (d) support an
industry-wide investment program.
4.    With the first objective, the Government was responding to the need for
sustainable sector restructuring to improve overall efficiency of the industry. With the
second objective, the Government sought to identify options and scope to improve
efficiency of fertilizer distribution. The remaining two objectives were necessary to
improve technical efficiency and productivity of Indonesian fertilizer sector as well as
increase production capacity. Five of six state-owned fertilizer companies (PT Pupuk
Iskandar Muda, PT Pusri. PT Pupuk Kujang, PT Petrokimia Gresik, and PT Pupuk
Kalimantan Timur) participated in the Project. PT ASEAN Aceh fertilizer, owned by the
ASEAN countries, did not participate.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Fertilizer Sector Policies. The Government has partially adjusted the price of gas
inputs and regularly adjusts that of urea. Price control on phosphate and ammonium



-vi -
sulfate fertilizers has also been removed completely. These have resulted in significant
reduction of budgetary subsidy by almost 60 percent from Rp 457 billion in FY92/93 to
Rp 195 billion in FY96/97'.
6.    Limited improvements made in the marketing and distribution system have not
fully realized the potential gain if the system is fully restructured. The Government's
reluctance to restructure is due to its desire to make fertilizer products available
throughout the country at uniform prices. Ironically, despite the efforts to enhance
up-stream and distribution efficiencies, farmers continue to apply fertilizer excessively. A
study commissioned under the project indicated excess fertilizer application in Java to be
in the range of 20 to 30 percent. Also, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) prepared a
fertilizer demand projection, which determines annual production volume, that continues
to be historically based by applying a certain percentage of annual increase rather than
based on systematic individual soil analyses.
7.    Despite these accomplishments, as the adjustments continue to be initiated and
administered by the Government, the sector remains heavily regulated with its structural
inefficiencies. Furthermore, the FSP had failed to address more fundamental issues such
as introduction of competition within the sector and full sector deregulation. Viewed from
this perspective, the FSP was inadequately designed to result in improved overall
economic efficiency.
8.    Industry-wide Investment and Environmental Program. All objectives related
to the industry-wide investment program and application of environmental standards have
been satisfactorily achieved. A new ammonia and urea plant in Gresik, adding about
460,000 tons per year (tpy) of urea to the country's production capacity, has been
on-stream since 1994 and modernization of Gresik's phosphate fertilizer plants were
completed in 1996 with satisfactory results. Energy consumption per ton of ammonia/
urea produced in five optimized plants has been reduced, environmental standards for the
fertilizer industry have been established, and an effective environmental management
program is already in place in all participating fertilizer companies. The long experience
of the participating fertilizer companies (PFCs) in constructing and operating
ammonia/urea plants is a factor critical to the successful implementation of the
investment program. However, the project's rates of return are lower than appraisal
estimates due to lower export prices and assumed higher price of gas input
(US$2/mmbtu). Lower export prices also has led to unfavorable financial condition of the
PFCs.
9.    Implementation Experience. Except for international fertilizer prices, all other
factors necessary to warrant a successful implementation were basically within the
control of the Government. This is shown by the satisfactory implementation of the
However. draftic devaluation of the Rupiah against the USR has dramatically increased production cost and
forced the Government to re-introduce subsidy for these products (SP36 and AS) in April 1998.



- vii -
physical investment program. In implementing the FSP, however, its broad institutional
implication appears to have been inadequately addressed, as indicated by the absence of a
strong leadership agency to provide and direct formulation and implementation of the
policies. Toward the end of implementation, this shortcoming appears to have been
addressed through establishment of a Holding company, chaired by PT Pusri, with a
mandate to further improve sector efficiency, set the stage for privatization of the PFCs,
and prepare the sector for full deregulation in early 2000s. Although it is not necessarily
the ideal solution, if it has full support from the Government, is professionally managed,
and is consistently directed toward realizing overall sector efficiency, the Holding has the
potential to bring its mandate into reality. Pusri Holding was formed on August 7, 1997,
comprising PT. Pusri as holding and PT Pupuk Kaltim, PT Petrokimia Gresik, PT Kujang
and PT Pupuk Iskandar Muda respectively as subsidiaries. The main goal of the holding
among others are: to improve national productivity and efficiency as well as
competitiveness and to gain the synergy effect in the future business development.
However, the formation of Pusri holding raises questions on the ability to efficiently
restructure and privatize the individual fertilizer centers
10.   Overall, through the project, the Bank has made a positive contribution to the
development of a technically efficient fertilizer industry comparable to world standards.
Within the limitation of the Project's stated objectives, both the Bank's and the
Borrower's performance in the various stages of the project cycle have been satisfactory.
However, since a large part of the FSP is still to be implemented after project completion,
project outcome is satisfactory only in terms of physical achievement and unsatisfactory
in terms of solving the more fundamental policy issues of the fertilizer sector. From the
project's point of view, sustainability of its accomplishments is uncertain, and from the
country's perspective, Indonesia's plan to change its fertilizer industry into be a highly
competitive and economically efficient remains an unfinished agenda.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
11.   Three important lessons can be drawn from the project, as follows:
*  Well-defined policy measures including quantitative targets and timetables should
have been agreed with the Government in the design stage. Implementation of the
fertilizer policy statement should have addressed more fundamental issues such as full
sector deregulation, competition development, and privatization.
.  Coordination (or the lack of it), while being a classic issue, continues to be an
important ingredient for policy implementation in a multiagency environment. In this
context, a strong lead agency should have been agreed upon and appointed early in
the design stage.
*  Strong technical capability, as shown by the PFCs, is of utmost importance in the
implementation of an industry restructuring project that involves adding new
production capacities and enhancing plant efficiency and productivity.



- viii -
12.   Finally, it is important to note that project achievements and future operations of
the PFCs are at risk if the current regulatory regime is maintained. This is even more so
as optimized plants in PIM, Pusri and Kujang continue to age and will ultimately need
replacement. Even under Holding management, short- and medium-term financial
problems faced by the companies are not likely to be solved internally and external
assistance, including private sector involvement, will have to be mobilized. This can be
achieved in an efficient, competitive sector environment that is to be created through full
sector deregulation, privatization of PFCs, and enhanced private sector participation.



- I -
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 3282-IND)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    The primary impacts the project was seeking were an improvement in efficiency
and performance of Indonesia's fertilizer industry, a reduction of budget subsidies, and
minimization of adverse environmental impacts of fertilizer production. These impacts
were to be achieved by accomplishing the following objectives: (a) to assist the
Government in implementing an agreed Statement of Fertilizer Sector Policies (FSP)
aiming at enhanced economic efficiency, improved distribution and marketing, and
abating pollution; (b) to identify the scope for improved efficiency in marketing and
distribution; (c) to assess the industry's environmental impact and standards, and prepare
an environmental management program; and (d) to support an industry-wide investment
program. The objectives were responsive to the need of the Indonesian fertilizer sector
and no major modifications were made during project implementation.
2.   Implementation of the FSP is the thrust of the project as it directly responded to
the needs of the industry to restructure the gas input and product pricing system and to
introduce competition in production and distribution so that overall industry efficiency
could be achieved. This was to be accomplished by gradually bringing the prices of gas
input and fertilizer products (both at factory and farm levels) to their respective economic
prices, gradually eliminating budget subsidies and by reforming PT Pusri's distribution
system.
3.    To support FSP, two studies on fertilizer distribution and marketing and on
development of environmental program management were commissioned by the
Directorate General of Chemical Industry of the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MOIT).
The studies came up with recommendations, some of which were implemented during
project implementation.
4.    To respond to a projected increase in demand for nitrogen fertilizer, the project
supported an industry-wide investment program and provided funds for capacity
investment in PT Petrokimia Gresik. This included (a) building a new ammonia/urea
plant at Gresik, with a capacity of 1,350 tons per day (tpd) of ammonia and 1,400 tpd of
urea, to provide low-cost ammonia to existing operations and to reduce urea distribution
costs in East Java, including provision of engineering services and licenses therefor; and
(b) supporting modernization investments in Gresik's existing fertilizer plants to increase



output of phosphoric acid and improve performance of the ammonium sulfate (AS)
facilities and ameliorate environmental pollution.
5.    Included in the industry-wide investment program  was the optimization of
ammonia/urea plants in PT Pupuk Iskandar Muda, PT Pusri, PT Pupuk Kujang, and PT
Pupuk Kalimantan Timur. The objectives of the optimization were to improve efficiency
of energy and raw material consumption, enhance output, and improve environmental
performance of the plants.
6.    The policies were spelled out in the Government's letter of November 10, 1990.
These included plans to bring prices of gas input and fertilizer products (ex-factory and
farm-gate levels) to their respective economic prices, to gradually eliminate budgetary
subsidy, and to improve Pusri's distribution system.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Implementation of Fertilizer Sector Policies
7.    Overall. Progress was observed during project implementation, including
abolition of price controls over phosphate fertilizers, and gradual, albeit partial,
adjustment of gas input and urea prices to reflect their economic prices. Fiscal subsidies
have also been reduced by more than two-thirds. However, at the end of the project the
sector remains dominated by the Government and its structure has not changed. Neither
are the participating fertilizer companies (PFCs) in encouraging financial condition and
able to sustain project achievements from their internal resources.
8.    Pricing Policy. Ex-factory and farm-gate prices of urea continue to be adjusted.
Compared to those at the project's inception year (1990) the ex-factory price has
escalated by more than 170 percent and the farm-gate price by 190 percent. When the
new  farm-gate price (Rp 400/kg)2 was announced in early  1997, with declining
international prices and an exchange rate of Rp 2,200/US$1.00, the farmers were
practically buying urea at higher-than-international prices. With the currency crisis
beginning in June 1997 whereby the Rupiah lost more than 75 percent of its buying
power against the dollar, fertilizer prices in Indonesia have become much lower than their
international prices in dollar terms.
9.    In 1993 and 1994 the Government abolished price controls on potash, phosphate,
and AS. Subsequently PK Gresik discontinued production of triple superphosphate (TSP)
and replaced it by SP36 (superphosphate with 36 percent of P205). As a result, production
costs have been reduced and subsidies for TSP and AS totally eliminated over the past
2   In April 1998. the Government raised the farm-gate price to Rp 450/kg. still very low in dollars terms Nvhen the
exchange rate was Rp 8,500 to a dollar. This price level is considered to remain affordable to the farmers as the
Govenment has also raised the price of rice.



- 3 -
two years. Although not totally eliminated, overall budget subsidies have decreased from
Rp 457 billion in FY 1992/3 to RP 195 billion in FY 1996/73.
10.   The Government has partially adjusted gas prices. Under current plans and with
the expiration of old gas contracts (the original "Integrated Gas Purchasing Agreement"
of 1975 covered a period of 20 years), gas prices are being increased individually plant-
by-plant. The following gas price adjustment have been reported: US$1.85/mmbtu for
Pusri's plant numbers II, III and IV, US$1.50 for Pusri plant number I-B, for export
US$1.85; PK Gresik US$2.00, for which US$1.00 will be reimbursed for domestic sales;
and a special price formula (around US$1.60 to US$2.60) to be negotiated for new
projects. According to the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MOIT), deregulation of gas
price should be implemented around the year 2000.
11.   The limited adjustment of gas prices is inadequate to guarantee a stable gas supply
from Pertamina. This is due to the growing number of competing gas users, private as
well as public, who are willing to pay more than US$1/mmbtu. Kujang, Pusri, and PIM
have in many instances experienced deteriorating gas supplies, which constrained
production at maximum capacity.
12.   Although not totally eliminated, overall budget subsidies have decreased from
US$457 million during FY1992/93 to US$195 million in FY1996/97. These accomplish-
ments notwithstanding, the adjustments continue to be government administered and tend
to be less responsive to market trends. At the end of project implementation the sector
remains heavily regulated with its inherent structural inefficiencies.
13.   Marketing and Distribution. Despite clear evidence that substantial benefits
may be obtained by restructuring the marketing and distribution system, the Government
has been reluctant to introduce major changes in view of its desire to keep uniform
fertilizer prices throughout the country and to ensure reliable delivery. This has led to
excessive use of fertilizer products by farmers. There are indications that in certain parts
of Indonesia, particularly in Java, agricultural output would not drop even if fertilizer
application rates were reduced by 20 to 30 percent. However, most farmers are reluctant
to reduce application rates out of a perception that less fertilizer may lead to less crop. In
the meantime, the Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA's) annual fertilizer demand projection,
which determines the volume of production, continues to use a more or less linear
projection model and only recently has started, on a pilot basis, to work on revised
demand projections based on systematic individual soil analyses.
14.   Development of intrasectoral competition, full sector deregulation, and
privatization were not articulated as formal policy options during FSP implementation.
This led to a situation where efficiency enhancement measures affected only the public
3  See footnote 1.



-4 -
sector producers and its scope was confined to technical rather than overall economic
efficiency with limited repercussion in the private sector.
15.  In September 1997 the Government established a Holding company by fully
transferring its shareholding in each PFC to PT Pusri. The Holding, whose structure is
still emerging, will coordinate and consolidate marketing and plant operations with a
target of overall efficiency improvement in the fertilizer sector and subsequent pooling of
domestic and international financial resources for future investments with private sector
participation. The ultimate goal is to achieve full sector deregulation in the early 2000s
and privatization of the PFCs.
Environmental Management Program
16.  In cooperation with BAPEDAL, MOIT has finalized and accepted waste water
emission standards in the fertilizer sector that are based predominantly on EC standards.
Work on air pollution standards is progressing and should be completed. An appropriate
monitoring and enforcement plan has been prepared and three PFCs (Kujang, Pusri, and
PIM) are participating in the scheme and achieved the "blue" rating (i.e., in compliance)
in 1997. Kujang has been constantly in the "blue" since June 1995, when the first ratings
were given. Pusri has been "blue" since December 1995, and PIM achieved the "blue"
status in October 1996.
17.   For air quality, the program is just beginning as the standards will not be enacted
until late 1997. Emissions monitoring, however has begun in conjunction with ISO 14000
now adopted by the PFCs.
Industry-wide Investment Program
18.   Overall. Indonesia has constructed and operated state-of-the-art fertilizer plants
and many of these are among best-run plants in the world. This strong background
facilitated satisfactory implementation of the industry-wide investment program.
However, with declining international prices and an assumed US$2/mmbtu gas price, the
five PFCs recorded lower-than-appraised rates of return. Consecutively, the Gresik rate of
return is calculated at 7 percent (Staff Appraisal Report-SAR-15 percent), Kujang 8
percent (SAR 16 percent), Pusri 22 percent (SAR 32 percent), Kaltim 14 percent (SAR 32
percent), and PIM 10 percent (SAR, NA). In spite of their optimized condition, plants in
Pusri, Kujang, and PIM have further aged and wear and tear in the plants have continued.
The project has helped to compensate lower plant availability due to aging by higher and
more efficient capacity.
19.   PT Petrokimia Gresik Restructuring. The new ammonia and urea plants have
been placed in service since 1994 and modernization of PK Gresik's phosphoric acid and
AS facilities has been completed and in operation since 1996. The new plants are now
fully operational, adding 460,000 tons of urea to the country's annual production
capacity. Project completion was delayed about six months, mainly by the late arrival of
gas at the battery limit due to delay in completion of Pertamina's natural gas pipeline.
This caused increased interest and supervision costs and loss of production.



- 5 -
20.   While energy efficiency of the new plants is in line with original expectations, the
urea plant has not operated to its full potential due to scale deposits from the ammonia
plant, which was not resolved at the time of writing of the ICR. The total cost for this
component was US$316.2 million (SAR estimate US$305.4 million), of which US$126.3
million was financed by the Bank. The actual project cost was 4 percent higher than
estimated, mainly due to appreciation of the Japanese yen against the US dollar. With
higher project costs and lower international prices, the new plants' economic rate of
return has been calculated at just 7 percent (based on gas price of US$2/mmbtu),
compared to an SAR estimate of 15 percent.
21.   Modernization of Gresik's phosphate plants is also showing a positive result in
significant reduction of air and water pollution level. The total cost for this component
was US$13 million (SAR estimate US$15.8 million), of which US$8.7 million was
financed by the Bank.
22.   PT Pupuk Iskandar Muda. PT PIM revamped its ammonia plant to increase
production capacity from 1,050 tpd to 1,210 tpd (15 percent) and reduced energy
consumption per ton of ammonia produced by 8 percent (3.3 mmbtu). PIM also installed
a dust emission control equipment which could reduce urea dust emission to less than
50 mg/100 Nm3. Total cost for PIM was US$17.8 million (SAR estimate US$15.2
million), of which the Bank financed US$10.7 million. Appreciation of the Japanese yen
against the US dollar, price increases, and additional materials due to engineering
revision contributed to the higher project cost. PIM financed the cost overrun from its
equity.
23.   PT Pusri. Pusri revamped its Pusri II plant to increase capacity by 150 percent to
1,725 tpd and energy use by 30 percent. The revamp was completed in 1994 and cost less
than the final budget estimate. Pusri also added two urea hydrolizers to remove urea from
its process condensate effluent, and a biological sewage treatment unit. This
environmental project also cost less than budgeted.
24.   The total cost for the revamp was US$33 million (SAR estimate US$36.1
million), of which US$22.1 million was financed by the Bank. The cost saving was
accrued from a reduced scope in ammonia plant optimization. In addition, the total cost of
the effluent treatment project was US$12.4 million (SAR estimate US$4 million) with
Bank financing in the amount of US$2.8 million. The higher cost was due to the
expanded scope of the environmental program.
25.   PT Pupuk Kujang. Kujang revamped its ammonia plant to increase capacity and
save energy. The revamp increased the ammonia plant's capacity daily production to 120
percent as planned, and saved about 2.65 mmbtu of gas per ton of ammonia produced.
The total cost of this component was US$18.7 million (SAR estimate US$17.4 million),
of which the Bank financed US$12.7 million.
26.   PT Pupuk Kalimantan Timur. Kaltim modified its Kaltim I ammonia plant to
increase capacity and save energy, and the urea plant to increase its capacity and reduce
pollution. The ammonia plant capacity increased from 1,450 tpd to 1,800 tpd, adding



- 6 -
more than 100,000 tpy, and urea from 1,700 tpd to 2,200 tpd. Kaltim I plant is now
operating fully, indicating better plant availability and reliability than it was before the
project when it operated at 10 to 20 percent below its capacity. Under the project, extra
urea capacity also increased by 10 percent. The total cost of this component was US$44.2
million (SAR estimate US$41.4 million), of which US$31.7 was financed by the Bank.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
27.   Lack of Leadership in Policy Implementation. Except for international prices
of fertilizer, basically all factors important to the success of project implementation are
within the influence of the Government and the PFCs. This is shown by the smooth
implementation of the industry-wide investment program. In policy implementation,
however, no specific institution showed a strong commitment and provided an effective
leadership despite the fact that implementation of FSP required full commitment and
cooperation from the Ministry of Finance, MOA, MOIT, and Ekku Wasbang in a
coordinated fashion.
28.   The Government commitment to guarantee availability of fertilizer products at
affordable, uniform prices proved to be a constraint to introduction of competition into
the fertilizer industry. This commitment requires a complicated and highly administered
input/output pricing system and is dependent upon a monopolistic distribution systems.
While the Government's continued strong concern about the plight of the farmer is well
justified, the policy choice resulted in distribution inefficiency and excessive fertilizer
use.
29.   Appreciation of the Japanese yen against the US dollar contributed to higher
project costs in Gresik and PIM. Also, declining international prices are a factor
contributing to unfavorable PFC financial results including lower rates of return at the
end of project implementation.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.   The increase of gas input prices and the decline of export prices would adversely
affect the PFCs' financial performance and would reduce the amount of internally
generated funds available to finance future capacity investments. At the same time,
Government guarantees are unlikely to be available for new external financing as the
Government has decided to withdraw from financing such productive activities. Under
these circumstances, even with establishment of the Holding company, PFCs' ability to
sustain project achievements by relying on internally generated resources appears
unlikely. In this case, external resources will have to be mobilized and appropriate
incentives should be introduced to induce private investments.
31.   Unless further sector deregulation and privatization are launched, sustainability of
project achievements and of the PFCs themselves is in doubt. The Holding company,
although not necessarily an ideal solution, should help to enhance sustainability if it has
in its agenda a strong orientation toward policy reform. Moreover, it should be furnished
with dedicated professional staff and must be fully supported by the Government.



- 7 -
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
32.  In 1988, the Bank commissioned a fertilizer sector study that came up with a
recommendation that future investments in the sector should be to make fertilizer
production competitive by international standards and improve the efficiency of the
distribution system. To this end, the study further recommended that the Government
develop a sectorwide investment program and launch sector policy reform with respect to
input as well as output pricing. The study led to identification of this project.
33.  In the identification stage, the Bank's strategy was to ensure that fertilizer sector
policy reforms would be implemented consistently and in a timely manner to support the
development of the sector. In project preparation, the Bank reviewed the adequacy of
project design from its technical, financial, economic, commercial, and institutional as
well as environmental aspects. However, greater attention could have been given to the
project design, particularly in the formulation of sector policies for reforms.
34.   During appraisal, a commitment were obtained from  the Government to
implement an agreed upon statement of fertilizer sector policy, which was signed by the
State Minister of National Development Planning. The policy statement, however, was
vague and not broad enough. The Bank appraised the capacity of the PFCs as
implementing agencies of the investment component. However, the Bank was not
successful in identifying and agreeing with the Government the suitable agency to be
responsible for FSP implementation. This resulted in ambiguous policy implementation
as there was no commitment from the Governrnent with regard to performance targets
and an implementation timetable.
35.   Nine supervision missions were fielded during implementation. The missions
continuously proposed full deregulation of the sector and privatization of PFCs and
suggested a policy implementation timetable. Problems identified and solutions proposed
as well as performance ratings given were well-documented in the Form 590s.
36.   Although the project did not realize its fullest potential, within the limitation of
the stated objectives, the Bank generally performed satisfactorily. However, the project
would have benefitted by better Bank performance during the design-phase of project
preparation. The loan amount, together with counterpart and cofinancier funds, was
sufficient to cover the investment needs and about 3 percent of the amount was canceled
at the end of implementation period.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
37.   The PFCs independently prepared proposals that led to preparation of the
investment component of this project. Plant optimization proposals were finalized after
the loan was declared effective. The proposals met technical as well as financial
feasibility and were acceptable according to Bank standards.
38.   The Government's and PFCs' commitments were best displayed by successful
completion of the investment program. This reflects excellent project management



-8 -
including right selection of consultants and contractors, timely availability of funds from
PFCs' equities and cofinanciers and consistent progress monitoring.
39.   On the policy side, the Government, as mentioned elsewhere, has been reluctant
to take more comprehensive policy actions to enhance overall efficiency of the sector.
Despite important achievement in reducing fiscal subsidies, the high-cost marketing and
distribution system remains relatively intact.
40.   Similar to the Bank's, judged from the project achieving its stated objectives, the
Borrower's performance has been satisfactory.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
41.   The project has accomplished its stated objectives. However, viewed from the fact
that it has missed the opportunity to address more fundamental sector issues, the
accomplishments have been limited and overall sector efficiency objectives have not been
achieved. Therefore, the outcome of the project is unsatisfactory.
42.   Although all PFCs have implemented their investment program successfully, their
financial performance has only partially met expectations. In addition to being caused by
declining export prices, the lower-than-appraised financial results reflect the impact of
current pricing policies.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
43.   To anticipate future demand for urea fertilizer, aging and deteriorating plants in
PIM, Pusri, and Kujang have to be replaced and external financing needs to be mobilized.
To this effect, the Government has to be more committed to full deregulation of the sector
and to privatization of the PFCs so that private investments in the sector can be induced
and fiscal burden from subsidies eliminated completely. Under the current economic
situation this commitment is even more important and needs to be implemented with
some urgency.
44.   Support need to be extended to MOA, which is in the process of refining its
fertilizer demand projection methods that will use systematic individual soil analyses
more extensively.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
45.   Well-defined policy measures including quantitative targets and timetables should
have been agreed with the Government in the design stage. Implementation of the
fertilizer policy statement should have addressed more fundamental issues such as full
sector deregulation, competition development, and privatization.
46.   Coordination (or the lack of it), while being a classic issue, continues to be an
important ingredient for policy implementation in a multiagency environment. In this
context a strong lead agency should have been agreed upon and appointed early in the
design stage.



9-
47.   Strong technical capability, as shown by the PFCs, is of utmost importance in
implementation of an industry restructuring project that involves adding new production
capacities and enhancing plant efficiency and productivity.



- 10-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial         Partial   Negligible   Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                             X
Sector policies                                      X
Financial objectives                                 X
Institutional development                                                          X
Physical objectives                     X
Poverty reduction                                                                  X
Gender issues                                                                      X
Other social objectives                                                            X
Environmental objectives                X
Public sector management                                                           X
Private sector development                                        X
B. Project Sustainability                Likely            Unlikely           Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                  Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory      Deficient
Identification                                                    X
Preparation assistance                                            X
Appraisal                                                                          X
Supervision                                                       X
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                       X
Implementation                                                    X
Covenant compliance                                               X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome       Highly         Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
x



TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title      Purpose                                          Approval    Status
Preceding Operations
1.  Industrial Energy      Establish institutional framework and policies for  1987    Completed
Conservation           planning. promoting. implementing and monitoring
energy conservation activities.
In parallel. demonstrate the benefits of energy
conservation activities in industry through
implementation of specific energy-efficiencv
investments in PT Pusri.
Following Operations
None
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                                 Date planned       Date actual/latest estimate
Identification (concept review)                            NA                February 21, 1990
Preappraisal (executive project summary                    NA                  February 1990
Appraisal                                             March 5, 1990              May 1990
Negotiations                                               NA                 October 29, 1990
Letter of development                                      NA                December 10, 1990
Board presentation                                    August 7, 1990         December 20, 1990
Signing                                                    NA                 January 16. 1991
Effectiveness                                              NA                      NA
Project completion                                         NA                      NA
Loan closing                                        December 31,1997         December 31,1997
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY91     FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95     FY96      FY97
Appraisal estimate               22.2      77.3    142.3    179.3    204.3    217.3
Actual                           33.2      91.2    151.0    173.5    209.8    214.1    214.9
Actual as% of adjusted estimate    150.0    118.0    106.0    97.0    103.0       97.0
Date of final disbursement                                                        October 22, 1997



- 12-
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators in SAR/ President's            Estimated                         Actual
Report                             (End of Project Target)              (June 1995)
1. Loan Effectiveness                                         May 1991                       March 1991
2. Policy Measures
(a) Annual Consultations                        Not later than October 1991. and   Regularly performed from early
thereafter                  1992 and thereafter
3. Gresik Restructuring
(a) Annual Consultations
- Start construction                                 October 4. 1990                 October 4, 1990
- Construction and commissioning completed            January 1994                     June 1994
(b) Plant Modernization
- Feasibility Studies and ElAs                 Not later than June 30, 1992            April 1992
(c) Preparation of EMP                          not later than November 30, 1991        September 1991
4. Optimization Subproject
-  Feasibility Studies and EIA                    Not later than June 30, 1992            August 1991
5. Studies
(a) Marketing and Distribution
- Setting up steering Committee                 Not later than May 1, 1991
- Start                                               June 1, 1991
- Completion                                         March 1, 1992                   December 1992
- Agreement on follow-up actions by GOI               May 1, 1992             January 26, 1993 (review with
Bank)
(b) Development of EMP for the Fertilizer sector
- Setting up Steering committee                 Not later than May 1, 1991
- Start                                               June 1, 1991
- Completion                                         March 1, 1992
- Agreement on follow-up actions by GOI               May 1, 1992             January 26, 1993 (review with
Bank)
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Not Applicable



- 13 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT.
Study               Purpose as defined at      Status           Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
1. Indonesia Fertilizer Mar-  Evaluation of fertilizer and rice    Completed  Input to implementation of FSP
keting Study            policy with particular reference to
fertilizer distribution and
marketing
2. Development of an    Assess Indonesia's environmental  Completed  Establishment of environmental
environmental management standards for the industry and           standards for the fertilizer industry
program for the fertilizer   recommend changes                    and of an environmental manage-
industry                                                          ment program for fertilizer
producers
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate           Actual/latest estimate
Item                                  Local  Foreign    Total         Local Foreign     Total
Restructuring of PT Petrokimia Gresik  179.1  126.3    305.4        189.9   126.3   3 16.2
Modernization of Phosphate/As plants    6.0    9.8      15.8          4.4      8.7    13.1
Optimization of Pusri 11 Urea Plant    17.5   22.2      39.7          11.0    22      33.0
Pusri Effluent Treatment Facilities     1.8    2.6       4.4          9.5      2.8    12.3
Kaltim I Ammonia/Urea Plant             8.8   37.0      45.8         23.2    31.7    54.9
Optimization of Kujang Ammonia Plant    4.5   12.9      17.4          6.0    12.7    18.7
Optimization of PIM Ammonia Plant       4.0   10.8      15.2          7.1    10.7    17.8
Studies                                 0.2    0.7       0.9          0.2      0.4     0.4
Total Project Costs           221.9  222.3    444.2         251.3   215.4   466.7
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate                Actual/late estimate
Source              Local     Foreign     Total        Local    Foreign    Total
Equity                        143.8         0.7    144.5          170.3        -      170.1
IBRD/IDA                         -        221.7    221.7             -      214.9    214.9
Cofinancing (BNI)              78.1          -       78.1          81.0        -       81.0
Japanese Grant                   -           -        -              -        0.4       0.4
Total                 221.9       222.4    444.3           251.3    215.4    466.7



- 14-
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
The five participating fertilizer companies recorded lower rates of return than appraisal
estimates. Consecutively, Gresik 7 percent (SAR 15 percent), Kujang 8 percent (SAR 16
percent), Pusri 22 percent (SAR 32 percent), Kaltim 14 percent (SAR 32 percent), and PIM 10
percent (SAR, NA)
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-              Original     Revised
Agree-                     nant    Present  fulfillment   fulfillment
ment        Section       type     Status      date         date            Description of covenant      Comments
Loan      3.01 (b) (c)        3         C      01/16/91       NA       Subsidiary loan agreement with Gresik
for restructuring and modernization
project.
3.01 (d) (e) (f)    3        C       01/16/91               Subsidiary loan agreement with PIM.
(g)                                                         Kaltim. Kujang & Pusri.
Project   4.01 (a) (b)        I         C      Annually       NA       PFCs to  maintain  project financial
fulfilled             records and submit audit reports.
Gresik    2.06               10         C      11/30/91    09/9191   Gresik to implement an environmental
management  plan  not  later  than
November30. 1991.
2.07               10        C        06/92        04/92    Gresik to submit to the Bank appraisal
report and EIA for its modernization
subproject.
4.01 (a) (b)        I        C       Annually       NA      Gresik to maintain project financial
fulfilled             records and submit audit reports.
Covenant Class:                                                                      Status:
I= Accounts/audits                   8 = Indigenous people                        C    = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review. and reporting        CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries  10 = Project implementation not               CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project       covered by categories 1-9
funds                          11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                   budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the             allocation
project or executing agency    12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants               regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement        13 = Other



- 15-
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned                           Revised
Stage of project cycle                Weeks    US$'000                  Weeks    US$'000
Preparation to appraisal                NA         NA                     26.1        77.5
Appraisal                               NA         NA                      8.4        26.1
Negotiations through Board approval     NA         NA                      7.6        24.4
Supervision                             NA         NA                    160.7       456.1
Completion                              NA         NA                     11.7        25.1
Total                                NA         NA                    214.5       609.2
NA: Not Available.
Source: COSR20 as of 12/29/97.



- 16 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Imple-      Devel-
Stage of       Month/    No. of      Days                                           mentation    opment    Typeof
project cycle     year     persons   in field    Specialized staff skills represented  status /a   objectives   problems
Through Appraisal    Up to       10                  Industrial Specialist, Economists.
05/90                         Chemical Engineer, Environmentalist.
Operations Officer
Appraisal through    Up to        4                   Chemical Engineer, Economist.
Board approval     12/90                                  Operations Officer
Supervision 1        05/91        4                  2 Industrial Specialists, Consultant    S           S
Chemical Engineer, Environmental
Consultant
Supervision 2        09/91        1                      Senior Chemical Engineer            S           S
Supervision 3        03/92        3                 Principal Industrial Specialist, Senior  U           U
Financial Analyst, Senior Country
Officer
Supervision 4        01/93        2                 Senior Chemical Engineer, Principal      U           U
Industrial Specialist
Supervision5         12/93        3                Senior Chemical Engineer, Operations      U           U
Assistant. Senior Operations Officer
Supervision 6        07/94        3                  Senior Industrial Specialist. Sector    S           S
Representative, Senior Agricultural
Economist
Supervision 7        06/95       4                    Industrial Specialist, 2 Financial     S           S
Analysts, Sector Representative
Supervision 8        09/96       4                    Privatization/Finance Specialist.      S           U
Fertilizer Specialist. Financial Analyst.
Operations Officer
Completion           10/97        3                Operations Officer. Financial Analyst.    S
Industrial Specialist
/a S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory.



-17 -                      ANNEX A
ANNEX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    For the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) under the
Fertilizer Industry Restructuring Project (loan 3282-IND), a World Bank mission4 led by
Mr. Kunrat Wirasubrata conducted a field visit from October 20-31, 1997. During this
period, the mission met with the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MOIT), Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), Ministry of Finance (MOF), Coordinating Ministry of Economy,
Finance, and Development Supervision (EKKU WASBANG), PT Petrokimia Gresik
(GRESIK), PT Pupuk Iskandar Muda (PIM), PT Pupuk Kalimantan Timur (KALTIM),
PT Pupuk Kujang (KUJANG), PT Pupuk Sriwidjaja (PUSRI), and PT Asean Aceh
Fertilizer (AAF) and visited the GRESIK plant in East Java and the KUJANG plant in
West Java. A list of key people met by the mission is attached (Annex-1).
2.    Due to unexpected external difficulties, the mission was unable to conduct a
thorough review of project performance and sustainability. These difficulties related
mainly to two-incidents, i.e. (i) the project sites outside of Java (i.e. PUSRI, PIM and
KALTIM) could not be visited since air-traffic to Sumatra and Kalimantan was
interrupted in the region due to poor visibility; and (ii) senior government officials in
several key ministries were unavailable to meet with the mission as they had to attend to
the current foreign exchange crisis; the latter also affected resource availability within
RSI. Consequently the TOR for the mission could not be fully executed; a decision is
pending on the need for a follow-up mission within the near future to augment the limited
project data obtained and plant visits conducted so far.
3.    This aide memoire summarizes the main topics of the discussions held and the
mission's findings and recommendations. The views expressed in this aide memoire are,
however, the mission's own, do not necessarily reflect those of the World Bank, and are
subject to review by the World Bank management.
4.    The mission gratefully acknowledges the very friendly, frank and cooperative
atmosphere of the meetings with GOI and the participating fertilizer companies (PFCs).
4  The mission comprised Messrs. Kunral Wirasubrata (mission Leader. Sector Coordinator. EACIF), Mr. Kurt M.
Constant (Sr. Industrial Specialist. IENIM), and Unggul Suprayitno (Financial Analyst, EACIF).



-18 -                      ANNEX A
SUMMARY
5.    The primary Project objectives were to:
*  assist GOI in implementing an agreed Statement of Fertilizer Sector Policies
aiming at establishing an internationally competitive industry;
*  identify the scope of improved efficiency in marketing and distribution;
*  assess the industry's environmental impact and standards, and prepare an
environment management program; and
*  support an industry-wide investment program.
6.    At the outset of the meeting the bank team explained that the main purpose of the
mission was to compare original primary project objectives with actual achievements and
study the lessons learned during implementation.  The mission also stressed that
sustainability and future growth in the Indonesian fertilizer sector would closely depend
on successful implementation of crucial sector reforms including policy adjustments and
improvement of overall production and distribution efficiency in Indonesia. Appetite for
private investment in local projects will reflect international competitiveness of the
Indonesian fertilizer sector in terms of financial project performance and input/output
pricing.
7.    Furthermore. the mission explained to MOIT and the PFCs outline and format of
their required contributions to the final Implementation Completion Report (ICR) that
will be attached unedited for distribution. GOI and the PFCs agreed to provide their
relevant inputs and the MOIT will consolidate the feedback on the individual project
components and provide a summary on GOI's views and conclusions.
8.    MOIT expressed its satisfaction with the project results and the cooperation with
the Bank during all phases of the project cycle. While a number of reforms have already
been implemented such as deregulation of potash, ammonium sulfate and phosphate
fertilizers. full deregulation of gas and fertilizer prices at factory-gate is anticipated for
the year 2000.
9.    Following its objective of phased sector deregulation, GOI abolished price
controls on potash in 1993/94. and on phosphate (TSP/SP36) and ammonium sulfate
(AS) in 1994/95. Subsequently GRESIK phased-out TSP production and replaced it by
SP36 (super phosphate 36% P,05). As a result of these adjustments production cost have
been reduced and heavy earlier production subsidies for TSP and AS totally eliminated
over the past 2 years.
10.   Despite significant increases of urea prices in 1996 (farm-gate by 26.9% and
factory-gate by 41.6%), and 1997 (factory gate by 15%), urea prices have not reached
international levels and are still regulated. As a reference, Annex 2 provides a summary



-19-                       ANNEX A
of March 1997 retail prices in the region. However, the reform continues and subsidized
sales (including tax exemptions) to plantations and estates (cash crops) are being phased
out faster than supplies for food crops, particularly rice. Full deregulation of urea at
factory-gate level is expected for 2000.
11.   So far, gas prices have only been partially adjusted. Under current plans and with
the expiration of old gas contracts (the original "Integrated Gas Purchasing Agreement"
of 1975 covered a period of 20 years), gas prices are being increased individually plant by
plant. The following gas price adjustments have been reported: PUSRI - #11, III, IV
$1.00/MMBtu, PUSRI IB $1.50, for export $1.85; GRESIK $2.00 (currently receives
$1.00 reimbursements for domestic sales); special price formula (around $1.60 to $2.60)
to be negotiated for new projects. According to MOIT, gas-price deregulation should be
implemented around year 2000.
12.   Since 1993 when the IFDC Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution Study was
jointly reviewed by the GOI and the Bank, many of the minor recommendations have
been implemented. including the involvement of small-scale traders at KUD level. The
GOI has continued to support PUSRI's marketing system and its complex task of
distributing fertilizers within the Indonesian archipelago, and has recently approved
formation of a holding company under PUSRI that consolidates the five participating
fertilizer companies (PFCs).
13.   The Holding was established under PUSRI in September 1997 and its
organizational structure is still emerging. Its objectives are to coordinate and consolidate
marketing and plant operations with a target of overall efficiency improvement in the
fertilizer sector and subsequent pooling of domestic and international financial resources
for future investments with private sector participation. One of the Holding's first
decisions was to select KALTIM (Bontang, East Kalimantan) and PIM (Lhokseumawe,
Aceh Privince in North Sumatra) as export centers for international urea shipments.
While export quotas still set by GOI for 1997, future export planning will be transparent
and done by the Holding. The ultimate goal is to achieve full sector deregulation in the
early 2000s. GOI has transferred its shares in the fertilizer industry to the Holding, which
will ultimately be fully responsible for the management of the industry and its ultimate
privatization. Consequently, GOI will in future only deal with the Holding as the new
official representative of the Indonesian fertilizer industry.
14.   After the study on the Environment Management Program of the Fertilizer
Industry, BAPEDAL and MOIT have prepared and implemented environmental
guidelines and emission standards in 1995 for wastewater.  Standards for gas and
particulate emissions to the atmosphere will be available by end 1997. The new local
environmental specifications reflect international emission standards in industrialized
countries. All five PFCs are participating in the new environmental control scheme and
have passed liquid discharge standards ("blue grading").



- 20 -                     ANNEX A
INVESTMENT PROGRAM
15.  Implementation of the investment components was successfully completed. All
tests and guarantee runs met specifications and the project components have been running
smoothly and efficiently in general.
16.   Some adjustments of original budgets were required. They typically resulted
from (a) scope extensions; (b) streamlining and/or expediting of procurement activities
and project implementation to maximize economic benefits; and (c) close linkages of
project tie-ins with annual turnarounds and market developments. Any overruns that
incurred were funded internally and there were no fund shortages. IBRD loan allocations
to the individual enterprises remained unchanged; some disbursement category
adjustments were required.
17.   Flexibility built into the project during appraisal allowed the Bank to approve
requests for scope and disbursement adjustments in most instances.
18.   Although all PFCs have implemented their project components successfully, their
financial performances have only partially met expectations. The disappointing financial
project results reflect the impact of current pricing policies and prevailing lack of
incentives for higher operational efficiencies among state-controlled enterprises. The
situation has recently deteriorated as a result of the foreign exchange crisis and corrective
action is urgently required. GOI and the PFCs expect improved sector performances in
production and distribution through the new Holding.
19.   Current price regulations hit the new high-efficiency plants (PUSRI IB and
GRESIK) particularly hard. In spite of lowest energy consumption in the country and
high level of international competitiveness, these plans cannot sustain their operations
without losses due to local pricing policies. Debt service capability of the enterprises is
seriously hampered and future projects may be in jeopardy. Again. GOI and the PFCs
expect improved sector performances in production and distribution through the new
Holding.
20.   Three additional problems have emerged during the project completion review
that covers the full project cycle from the late 1980s until 1997.
*  First, old plants have further aged and would not have been able to maintain their pre-
project performances that were used without any adjustments as base case for project
analyses. It turned out that wear and tear in the plants has continued and affected
performance. The project has helped compensating lower plant availability due to
aging by higher and more efficient capacity, but has not always achieved the
anticipated maximum levels over longer production periods.
*  Second, during project implementation the number of gas users and their capacities
have increased causing growing downstream competition for gas. As most competing
gas users typically pay more for the gas than the (older) fertilizer plants, sustainability



- 21-                      ANNEX A
of gas supply to the project has deteriorated and may constrain production at
maximum capacity. Hence. sustainability of gas supply has become a critical issue.
Third, despite competent and experienced management, the PFCs are not always fully
motivated to go for maximum profitability, as benefits are usually only marginal. The
available bonus systems linked to physical budget performances may not always have
their full effect.
21.   GOI and the PFCs are aware of these problems and confident that the newly
established Holding will soon be able to also resolve these issues through consolidation
of resources and planning that aims at obtaining maximum synergy effects.
REFORMS IN THE FERTILIZER SECTOR
22.   After initial deregulation of potash phosphate (TSP/SP36) and ammonium sulfate
(AS) deregulation followed in 1995. Furthermore and following Bank recommendations,
the production of TSP as GRESIK was stoppped replaced by SP36; certain parts of
Indonesia started applying ground phosphate rock, where suitable. This has resulted in
significant reductions of production costs and total elimination of the heavy earlier
production subsidies for TSP and AS At GRESIK (estimated 1993 subsidies were US$
60 million for TSP and US$ 15 million for AS).
23.   The Coordinating Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Development Supervision
(EKKU WASBANG) reiterated that food security, particularly reliable supply of rice, is
still one of the most important Govemment objectives. Hence, there have been substantial
delays in full sector reform. particularly farm gate prices of urea. However, GOI is aware
of the potential and need for improved efficiencies in agriculture, industry, and
distribution and agrees that full subsidy removal should be the ultimate goal of the reform
program. As a first (and probably temporary) consolidated initiative toward improved
industrial fertilizer activities, GOI feels confident that the establishment of the new
Holding will provide valuable contributions including introduction of least cost
distribution and synergy in projects, operations. and marketing.
24.   The mission feels that the Holding is probably not the ideal solution, but is likely
to help achieving substantial improvements on the short to medium term. In order to
facilitate its success it will need to be properly staffed and have access to highest quality
local and international expertise, as its required role will be exceptionally demanding and
important. Additionally, final and annual targets and objectives of the Holding should be
quantified and integrated in its budgets as soon as possible. MOF. MOIT, EKKU
WASBANG and the Holding agreed that the long term goal of the reform is sector
deregulation and privatization of the fertilizer enterprises in a competitive environment.
25.   The Ministry of Agriculture is working on revised fertilizer demand projections
and there is increased interest in fertilizer recommendations based on systematic
individual soil analyses. Unfortunately, availability of funds for the piloting appropriate
soil sampling, analyses and fertilizer recommendations is very limited at this stage. The



-22 -                        ANNEX A
mission indicated that under the newlv introduced Learning and Innovation Loans (LILs),
the Bank may be in a position to provide assistance and offered to follow up on this topic.
26.   Despite significant increases of urea prices in 1996 (farm-gate by 26 percent,
factory-gate 41.6 percent to Rp. 246.750/t.bagged), and 1997 (factory-gate Rp. 282,900,
bagged). urea prices have not reached international levels and are still regulated (see
Annex 2). However, subsides for sales to plantations and estates are being phased out as
GOI redirects its focus on secure food crop production only. Unfortunately, the issue of
urea pricing has been seriously aggravated by the recent Rupiah crisis.
27.   GOI's export quotas are still set in reverse to individual enterprise (energy)
efficiencv thus turning less efficient plants into main exporters to compensate for higher
production costs-there is a lack of incentives for increasing operational efficiency.
Changes are expected for 1998 and thereafter with the evolution of the Holding that will
take over sector budgeting and operations.
28.   Under current conditions. substantial subsidies are still required for covering
prevailing high marketing and distribution costs despite initial attempts to introduce the
concept of 'least cost distribution'; natural gas forms a major part of current fertilizer
subsidies.
29.   The current price structure for urea production and domestic sales does not allow
the most energy efficient producers to cover their costs, even with a subsidized gas price
of US$ 1/MMBtu. The financial situation is particularly serious for the two new most
efficient plants at FRESIK and PUSRI. as they have made substantial investments that
are verv difficult to recover under prevailing circumstances. Thus pricing reform is
becoming ever more important and urgent.
30.   The future of the fertilizer companies depends to a large extent on the speedy
success of the new Holding in achieving improvements in sector performance and
profitability, catalyzing pricing reforms and facilitating ultimate sector deregulation.
Fertilizer production and distribution play a very critical role in Indonesia's agriculture
and should meet the following requirements in the field:
o appropriate type of fertilizer
o timely supply/availability to the farmer
o satisfactory amount
* good quality
* acceptable price
v right location
The measure required for meeting these targets in an economic and efficient way should
include:
deregulations of marketing and distribution at all levels to promote sector-
wide efficiency gains;



- 23 -                     ANNEX A
. at GRESIK, further technology upgrading and diversification to specially
formulated blend and complex fertilizers;
* increase of urea factory-gate prices to economic levels in order to
* make urea production for the local market financially viable;
* encourage industry performance optimization; and
*  attract private sector participation that is warranted to realize the
potential for further industry development and fertilizer exports;
* adjustments of gas input prices to reflect economic values in order to secure
future gas supplies and enhance energy efficiency.
FERTILIZER MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
31.   The Fertilizer Marketing Study by IFDC was completed in late 1992 and jointly
reviewed by GOP and the Bank in early 1993; a follow-up meeting was held in mid-
1993. Although the majority of the study's minor recommendations has been accepted
and implemented, the Government has been reluctant to introduce major changes in view
of its desire to keep uniform fertilizer prices throughout the country and ensure reliable
delivery.
32.   Average 1996 fertilizer marketing and distribution costs in Indonesia have
escalated and reached a comparably very high level (around US$ 50/ton; Philippines
around US$ 20-25/ton; Indonesia cement around US$ 20/ton and less excluding levels III
and IV). In the past. only a small percentage of the national fertilizer trade (about 10
percent) was used outside of Java and Sumarta; due to recent developments in South
Sulawesi and Kalimantan. the 10 percent have apparently recently increased to about 20-
25 percent. Marketing and distribution costs within Java should not exceed US$ 10-
15/ton of supplies from the local fertilizer producers (GRESIK, KUJANG). Hence, direct
marketing from local plants into their neighboring markets, particularly in Java and
Sumarta (least-cost distribution) would yield substantial annual savings, conservatively
estimated at US$50-60 million equivalent based on estimates by previous Bank missions.
33.   There is clear evidence that substantial additional benefits may be obtained by
restructuring the marketing and distribution system. As successful international
experience in sector reform show, uninterrupted and efficient product flow into the
markets can be ensured through careful design and proper phasing. Remote areas may
justify special treatment and support to ensure acceptable product availability and prices,
and should be targeted in a transparent and manageable manner.
ENVIRONMENT
34.   In cooperation with BAPEDAL, MOIT has finalized and accepted wastewater
emission standards in the fertilizer sector that are based predominantly on EC standards.
Work on air pollution standards is progressing and should be completed by 1997. An



-24 -                      ANNEX A
appropriate monitoring and enforcement plan has been prepared and all five PFCs are
participating in the scheme and have passed.
35.   Besides the environment management program and its implementation in the
sector, which is fairly advanced, the project has significantly contributed to pollution
control in all factories. Measures taken include reduced emission of greenhouse gases,
energy conservation, reduced contamination of liquid effluents and reduction in effluent
streams with an anticipated zero liquid effluent from Kujang in late 1998, and substantial
improvements in operating conditions and operational safety, particularly at Petrokimia
Gresik, where the old oil-based ammonia plant was replaced and the existing phosphate
and TSP complex modernized.



- 25-                              ANNEX A
INDONESIA
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
SENIOR PEOPLE MET BY THE MISSION
Ministry of Industry & Trade (MOIT): Mr. H. Ahmad Gazali Director, Chemical Industry
Mr. Agus Wahyudi                Chief, Productions, Chemical Industry
Coordinating Ministry of Economy. Finance and Proiect Supervision (EKKU WASBANG):
Dr. Delima Azahari              Director
Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Mr. Bacelius Ruru               Director General, State Owned Companies
Mr. Ragil Moegiyo Hadisukarto   Head, Sub-directorate, Industrial State Enterprises
PT Petrokimia Gresik (GRESIK):
Mr. Aan Ruskanda Furkon         Technical Director
Mr. Yusuf Budianto              Business Development Manager
PT Pupuk Kalimantan Timur (KALTIMI:
Dr. Anwar K. Joesoef            Director, Research & Development
Mr. Bowo Kuntohadi              Director, Finance & Commerce
Mr. Eko Sunarko                 General Manager, Finance
PT Pupuk Sriwidjaia (PUSRI):
Ir. Suhadi                      President Director
Ir. Kadar Suradimadja           Director, R & D
Ir. Setyabudhi Zuber            Project Manager, PET
PT Pupuk Kujiang (KUJANG):
Ir. Edi Madnawidjaja            President Director
Ir. Rukasah Daradjat            Director
PT Pupuk Iskandar Muda (PIM):
Drs. Omay K. Wiraatmadja        President Director
Mr. Wiyas Yulias Hasbu          Commercial Director
Mr. Suarto Budidarmo            Research & Development Director
PT Asean Aceh Fertilizer (AAF):
Mr. Z. Soedjais                 President Director



-26 -                             ANNEX A
FERTILIZER RETAIL PRICES
IN SELECTED ASIAN COUNTRIES
(United States dollar per metric ton - March 1997)
Country        Urea          AS          Rock P.        SSP           ISP         Potash
Bangladesh        122            -             -          133           299           164
China             249            -             -           49              -            -
India              92            -             -           77              -          125
Indonesia         141          151             -            -           276           224
Iran               86           43             -            -              -            -
Korea, Rep.       220          114             -           84              -          211
Malaysia          288          178          153             -              -          198
Myanmar         5,010            -             -            -          3,340        1,169
Nepal             118          121             -            -            140          149
Pakistan          164           97             -          105              -            -
Philippines       293          170             -            -              -          296
Sri Lanka         194          162           93             -           226           198
Thailand          230          144             -            -              -          183
VietNam           252          177             -           92              -          162
Source: FADINAP Fertilizer Trade Information Monthly Bulletin, March 1997.



- 27 -                       ANNEX B
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON THE ICR
PT PUPUK KUJANG
(PERSERO)
I9utea PUSHt:                        Kaine, Jaoww-
JL .lwd. A. Ymni No.39 CknMP.k A1 2T7  Godung Umawir LL 116111
Jaw s at - Indamese PO. 3ox 4 CkIl  JL K)amen F. Tewen Kav. No. 28
TdIp: (O2664 318141 Nufling ysylto   Pt. 30x 137? -10013
3t4336, 31437,314=38, 314339  Jakattn S"tanfli271* Indoneoa
314340. 314 '1, 314342     TdtOL (021t 5224225. SZ0427, 520223S
Fe*  (OI)3142!38,314W3             Fox  (021) 5204233
Tl=: 440 KWJANG IA                   Tese* 62478 eKrIA
Jakarta, Jbne 12, 1998
Our ref.: Z35/PKJ/DU/VI/98
To
The Wold Bauk
1818ii     Street mTW.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U S A
Attn.: Mr.. Soonm Mbk Chmug
Sector . .anager
Fimnaceand Private Sector Development
F-ast Asia and Pacific iegion
Subject :FertilUier Restructuring Project (Loan: 3282-2MD)
Draft Immlemnntation Coamletion Reiort
Dear Sir,
In response to your letter dated June 1, 1998 regarding the above subject,
please find our comment and correction as follov
?a=agraph 2 : Achievmnmt of Obi ectve
Sub peragraph.2.18 : PT? 'upuk Xu a=g. _Kujang revamped ......................
Trhe revame  increasa the ammoni-a  plant's d&i1' aunLia mroduction to 120
2ereent as planed, and saved about 2.63 XM3TU of xas per con of a=onia
producad. Totai cost of ....................................................
The above correction is made in accordanca vith the Perfor=ance Test Result
which is signed by Rellogg's and Kujan-'s representative (Attached).
The 114Z Figure mentioned in that  Sub paragraph actually i3 the achieved
natural feed gas through put figure, not the ammonia production.
Therefore, the. natural gas savtng of Z.65  QM3TU per ton of a=ouia, is the
obtained saving achieved by the investment, which is now to produce the
plant out out of 120%. the a&o=_a plant uses only 114% natural -as through
put compared to 120% before the project.
Thauk vou for your kind attention.
Yours stncerelv,
se
Note:aThe atachments t   l a      i      w e         t
Note: The attachments to this letter are not included with the ICR but are available on file.



BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON ICR
(Received June 25, 1998)
CORRECTION OF DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FERTILIZER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
LOAN NO. 3282-IND
No.   Subject                     World Bank Comment and Recommendation              Correction
Implementation of Fertilizer  (Page 2. para 9)                                Additional
Sector Policies            Page 6                                              13 (9).  . As a result, production cost have been reduced and
2.3.  As a result production cost have been reduced    subsides for TSP and AS totally eliminated over the past two years.
and subsidies for TSP and AS totally eliminated over    Although not totally eliminated, overall budget subsidies have
the past two years. Although not totally eliminated,  decreased from Rp. 457 billion in FY 1992/3 to Rp. 195 billion in
overall budget subsidies have decreased from Rp 457    FY 1996/97. But since US dollar over valued to rupiah during
billion in FY 1992/3 to Rp 195 billion in FY 1996/7.    monetary crisis, production cost become extremely high.        00
However, subsidy for SP 36 and SA have been reappeared since
April 1998.
2.    Implementation of Fertilizer  (Page 3. para 10)                                 Corrected should be
Sector Policies            Page  6                                            2.4. (10) .... The following gas price adjustment have been
2.4 ... The following gas price adjustment have    reported: US$1.85/mmbtu for Pusri's plant numbers 11, III and IV,
been reported: US$1.00/mmbtu for Pusri's plant     US$1.50 for Pusi plant number l-B. PK Gresik 
numbers 11, 111 and IV, US$1.50 for Pusri Plant number
I-B, for export US$1.85; PK Gresik .
3.    Implementation experience   (Page vi.. para 9)                                 Additional
Page 3, point 9                                    *  Pusri Holding was formed on 7 August, 1997, comprising PT.
Pusri as holding and PT Pupuk Kaltim, PT Petrokimia Gresik,
PT Kujang and PT Pupuk Iskandar Muda respectively as
subsidiaries.
* The main goal of the holding among others are: to improve
national productivity and efficiency as well as competitive and



No.   Subject                    World Bank Comment and Recommendation           Correction
to gain the synergy effect in the future business development.
* The holding policy on the synergy program are as follows:
a. Marketing Aspect:
=> Fertilizer product is mainly for domestic user and the
excess will be exported.
=> The export point through Bontang port (PT Pupuk Kaltim)
and Lhok Seumawe port (PT PIM) based on the least cost
distribution principle and better price.
b. Production Aspect:
r Fertilizer plants will be operated as optimum as possible
according to the design capacity by implementing
benchmarking program.
c. Finance Aspect:                                            Io
: Fund and financial management will be implemented
effectively and efficiently based on the cost and benefit
analysis.
d. Development Aspect:
= Business development plan will be carried out based on
resources availability.
=> The similar project proposed by the group member of
holding will be decided based on the most profitable
location.
z
e. Engineeringf& Other Technical Services Aspect:
=> Working facilities and other technical services will be



No.    Subject                       World Bank Comment and Recommendation                 Correction
utilized fully for internal requirement prior to outsoarcing
and the outside marking as well.
.=> The above facilities will be managed based and business
orientation by utilizing available resources.
Additional:
a. Information on Fertilizer Sector Policies
+ Restructuring and deregulation on the distribution and
marketing will be done phase by phase considering subsidized
and non subsidized fertilizers, the type of the fertilizer and
utilization on the fertilizers.
+ Experiences showed when the Indonesian Government lifted
subsidy of KCI fertilizer, the demand dropped almost half of
the initial consumption due to the increased price.
+  As far as the rice price controlled by Government, all the            o
farmers requirement to the produce rice should be controlled as
well. Otherwise the farmers will be reluctant lo-grow rice.
+ The success of deregulation program depend on the low
distribution cost and the adequate supply of fertilizer to the
farmer.
b. Information on Fertilizer Demand Projections
*  The national fertilizer requirement plan did not consider the
soil analysis and various constrain. Instead the fertilizer
requirement was planned by agricultural official both from the
national and the provincial level. Pusri which is responsible>
for the fertilizer distribution for the agriculture evaluates the    z
fertilizer requirement, and considers the pasi fertilizer
consumption to insure adequate supply.                               t;



No.   Subject                      World Bank Comment and Recommendation              Correction
5.     Environmental Management  (Page 4 para 17)                                     Corrected should be
Program                    Page 7.                                             2.10. For air quality, the program is just beginning as the standards
2. 10. For air quality, the program is just beginning as   will not be enacted until late 1997 and emission monitoring has
the standards will not be enacted until late 1997 and  begun since PGCs adopting ISO 14000.
mission monitoring has not begun.
(Page 4 para 19)
6.     PT Petrokimia Gresik        Page 7.                                            Corrected should be
Restructuring              2.12. The new ammonia and urea plants have been     2.12. The new ammonia and urea plants have been placed in
placed in service since 1994 and modernization of PK    service since 1994 and modernization of PK Gresik's phosphoric
Gresik's phosphoric acid and AS facilities has been  acid and sulfuric acid (SA) facilities has been completed and in
completed and in operation since 1996.             operation since 1996.
Note: Please refer to new paragraph numbers. in parenthesis as report numbering was changed.
z



