Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3282 IND
                (Fertilizer Restructuring Project)
                              amongst
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                P.T. PUPUK ISKANDAR MUDA (PERSERO)
               P.T. PUPUK KALIMANTAN TIMUR (PERSERO)
                    P.T. PUPUK KUJANG (PERSERO)
                  P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA (PERSERO)
                      Dated January 16, 1991
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3282 IND
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 16, 1991, among INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and P.T. PUPUK
ISKANDAR MUDA (PERSERO) (hereinafter called PIM), P.T. PUPUK
KALIMANTAN TIMUR (PERSERO) (hereinafter called Kaltim), P.T. PUPUK
KUJANG (PERSERO) (hereinafter called Kujang), and P.T. PUPUK
SRIWIDJAJA (PERSERO) (hereinafter called Pusri).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Indonesia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two hundred twenty-one million seven hun-
dred thousand dollars ($221,700,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that PIM,
Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower and PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri, respectively, part
of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement
Page  2
will be relent to PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri on the terms and
conditions set forth in said PIM Subsidiary Loan Agreement, Kaltim
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, Kujang Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
Pusri Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri, in consideration of the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, each has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Condi-
tions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri each declares
its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, PIM shall carry
out Part B.1 of the Project, Kaltim shall carry out Part B.2 of the
Project, Kujang shall carry out Part B.3 of the Project, and Pusri
shall carry out Part B.4 of the Project, all with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering, and environmental practices, and PIM,
Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri each shall provide, or cause to be pro-
vided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Parts B.1, B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project,
respectively.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and engineering services and licenses required
for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri each shall carry
out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this
Agreement and Parts B.1, B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project,
respectively.
      Section 2.04. PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri each shall duly
perform all their respective obligations under the PIM Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, Kaltim Subsidiary Loan Agreement, Kujang Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and Pusri Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri each shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the PIM Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the Kaltim Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Kujang Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement and the Pusri Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri each shall, at
the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to
the progress of Parts B.1, B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project, the
performance of their obligations under this Agreement and under the
PIM Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Kaltim Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
the Kujang Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Pusri Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri each shall promptly inform
the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
Page  3
with the progress of Part B of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by PIM, Kaltim, Kujang
and Pusri of their obligations under this Agreement and under the
PIM Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Kaltim Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
the Kujang Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Pusri Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
      Section 2.06. PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri, each shall, for
the purpose of implementation of their respective optimization
investments, furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1992, for
the Bank's review and approval: (i) an investment appraisal report,
and (ii) an environmental impact assessment of the investment.
                            ARTICLE III
                   Management and Operations of
                   PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri
      Section 3.01. PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri each shall carry
on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri each shall at all
times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial, industrial and environmental practices.
      Section 3.03. PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri each shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri each shall
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri each shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial state-
                   ments (balance sheets, statements of income and
                   expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
                   year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and financial
                   statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                   Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Page  4
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri thereunder shall terminate on
the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify PIM, Kaltim,
Kujang and Pusri thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For PIM:
            P.T. Pupuk Iskandar Muda (Persero)
            Jalan Medan-Banda Aceh
            P.O. Box 21 Lhok Seumawe
            Indonesia
                                           Telex:
                                             51382 LSM
      For Kaltim:
            P.T. Pupuk Kalimantan Timur (Persero)
            Bontang Utara
            Kalimantan Timur
            Indonesia
                                           Telex:
                                             45562 PKTBTG 1A
      For Kujang:
            P.T. Pupuk Kujang (Persero)
            Jalan Jenderal
            A. Yani Cikampek 41373
            P.O. Box 4 Cikampek
            Jawa Barat
            Indonesia
                                           Telex:
Page  5
                                             46606 KUJANG 1A
                                             46028 KUJANG 1A
      For Pusri:
            P.T. Pupuk Sriwidjaja (Persero)
            Jalan Mayor Zen
            P.O. Box 084 Palembang
            Indonesia
                                           Telex:
                                             27117
                                             27453
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri may be taken or
executed by their respective President Director or such other person
or persons as each President Director shall designate in writing,
and PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
                                    §cting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                         P.T. PUPUK ISKANDAR MUDA (PERSERO)
                         By /s/ A. S. Achjadi
                                         Authorized Representative
                         P.T. PUPUK KALIMANTAN TIMUR (PERSERO)
                         By /s/ A. S. Achjadi
                                         Authorized Representative
                         P.T. PUPUK KUJANG (PERSERO)
                         By /s/ A. S. Achjadi
                                         Authorized Representative
                         P.T. PUPUK SRIWIDJAJA (PERSERO)
                         By /s/ A. S. Achjadi
Page  6
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                            Procurement
Section I:  Procurement of Equipment and Materials, and Engineering
            Services and Licenses
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Equipment and materials, and engineering services and licenses
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of equipment and materials in accordance
with the procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured
in Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Proprietary equipment estimated to cost in the aggregate an
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $8,100,000, may be procured
by direct negotiations with original suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines.
2.    Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $400,000 per contract, up to an aggregate of
$7,800,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56, thereof).
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contracts for equipment and
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more,
and each contract for engineering services and licenses, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the
Guidelines shall apply.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist PIM, Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri in carrying
out Parts B.1, B.2, B.3 and B.4 of the Project, respectively, PIM,
Kaltim, Kujang and Pusri respectively, shall, not later than May 1,
1991, employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in the August 1981.\1a
Page  7
