Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  44032 
Operation Name 
WBG-Palestinian Reform and Development Plan Development 
Policy Grant (PRDP DPG)  
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
(100%) 
Project ID 
P111078 
Borrower(s) 
Palestine Liberations Organization 
Implementing Agency 
Palestinian Authority/MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
March 10, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 30, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 5, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Key Development Issues 
 
Efforts to build an independent Palestinian State have been stymied by enormous political 
complications and continued violence. Despite these challenges, the Palestinian National Authority, 
supported by the international community has continued to struggle towards this goal.  In late 2000, a 
second 
intifada 
erupted throughout the West Bank and Gaza.  The level of violence was much higher 
than in the previous 
intifada 
of
the early ‘90’s and it culminated in large Israeli military incursions 
into Palestinian controlled areas in 2002 and 2003.  The incursions were accompanied by extensive 
closures and restrictions on movement imposed on the Palestinian population. These closures and 
restrictions on movement on people and goods in the Palestinian areas had a crippling effect on the 
economic situation, particularly on the private sector, and on the health and welfare of the Palestinian 
people.   
 
In 2004, the level of violence ebbed and the economy began to recover slowly.  However, in early 
2006 a Hamas led government was elected.  In response, most donors withdrew direct support to the 
Palestinian Authority (PA) and Israel cutoff the transfer of tax clearance revenues that Israel collects 
on behalf of the Palestinian Authority. This led the PA to reduce payments of public salaries and 
build up substantial arrears to the private sector. It also led to the deterioration of many of the 
government institutions that had been laboriously built over the last decade.  At the same time Israel 
intensified the application of its policy of road closures and restrictions of movement of people and 
goods.  During this period Israeli settlement activity and the construction of the separation barrier 
continued unabated, which resulted in ever greater restrictions on movement and access and further 
blows to the Palestinian economy.  
 
In June 2007, Hamas took control of Gaza by force and on June 17
th
,
President Abbas dissolved the 
Hamas led government and swore in an emergency government of technocrats, which has since 
become a caretaker government until new presidential and parliamentary elections can be held.  The 
international community has rallied around the new government.  Most donors have restarted their 
programs of financial and technical support to the Caretaker Government, and the Government of 
Israel (GOI) has released tax clearance revenues.  However, the Palestinian territories remain 
Page  2
2
effectively split.  Gaza, under the control of a Hamas administration, has been completely isolated by 
a
strict trade closure applied by Israel resulting in a serious decline in social indicators in the Gaza 
population.  The PA continues to pay most workers in Gaza but there is little government service 
delivery.  Israel has sealed the border and there is continuing violence.  Private sector activity has 
collapsed and the population subsists on emergency donor aid.  On the other hand, the West Bank has 
seen a decline in violence and an increase in economic growth, albeit from a low base. However 
because of continued Israeli settlement expansion and closures, investment remains depressed.  
 
By early 2008 the new government was moving rapidly to re-establish institutions and rebuild 
confidence in the West Bank and demonstrate its ability to govern effectively. In December 2007, the 
PA presented its Palestinian Reconstruction and Development Plan (PRDP) to donors at the Paris 
Donor conference.  This comprehensive plan lays out reforms that the government hopes will help 
re-start economic growth and regain the trust of the population and international donors.  Currently, 
the plan is only being implemented in the West Bank, where the new government is in control.  
However, it is designed to be expanded to Gaza as soon as the situation permits.  The PRDP details 
steps towards establishing fiscal sustainability and increasing government transparency and 
accountability, particularly in matters of public financial management, and sets out the priority public 
sector investment program in the various economic sectors that will be a counterpart to the private 
sector investment that is expected to power the economy.   The success of the PRDP depends upon 
parallel actions by the PA, the donor community and the Government of Israel (GOI).  If GOI does 
not relax its movement and access restrictions then the private sector will not be able to grow and the 
PA will not be able to break its dependence on large amounts of donor aid.  Likewise, if the donors 
do not initially fund the PA’s budgetary requirements then the government will not have time to 
implement the reforms.  
 
The international donor community embraced the PRDP at the Paris Donor Conference when the PA 
received around $7.7b in pledges to fund the PRDP over the 2008-10 period.  The PA requested 
much of the support in unrestricted budget support in order to allocate funds in an optimal way, but 
many donors are hesitant to provide funds directly to the PA budget.  Some have pledged funds for 
projects and others have pledged to pay recurrent costs (mainly salaries) directly.  Only a few donors, 
including the World Bank, have pledged untied budget support.  
 
Untied budget support is essential for the PA to function.  Its biggest expenses are salaries and “net 
lending”, the majority of which are payments by the central government to the Israel Electricity 
Company for power supplied to Palestinian municipalities.  Domestic revenues are not adequate to 
cover these costs, so without external budget support the PA will continue to accumulate large 
arrears. It is also important that external support be provided through the PA’s Single Treasury 
Account (STA).  Using the STA help the PA develop its public financial management systems, 
which were severely damaged during the aid cut in 2006. 
 
To encourage donors to use the STA, the World Bank and IMF have jointly agreed to monitor and 
report to donors on a quarterly basis the PA’s allocation and use of funds and to assess progress in 
meeting the goals outlined in the PRDP.  The monitoring will focus on progress in improving the 
fiscal position and improving public financial management.  In addition, the World Bank has been 
asked to establish a Multi-Donor Trust Fund called the PRDP-TF, to support the PRDP by providing 
untied budget support through the STA.  For its contribution to budget support, the Bank has been 
asked by the PA for this proposed Development Policy Grant (DPG). The PA believes that such deep 
Bank involvement will help mobilize otherwise reluctant donors to provide budget support, which is 
critical for the successful implementation of the PRDP.
 
Page  3
3
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The proposed operation is designed to support the PA as it implements the reform program detailed 
in the PRDP.  It takes advantage of the good will and high level of donor support pledged at the Paris 
donor conference in December 2007.  To have the largest impact, the project is focused on two 
specific areas and will support the PA to quickly enact reforms that strengthen its fiscal position, and 
improve its public financial management. These are critical building bocks for the government of an 
independent Palestinian state and are also crucial for attracting continued international donor support, 
which the PA depends on.  The World Bank’s involvement in supporting and monitoring the reform 
effort will strengthen the PA’s capacity to achieve the desired reforms and also help build the 
required support among donors.   
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The World Bank will support the PRDP process by providing untied budget support through the 
Single Treasury account.  This will be done in two complementary ways. First, the Bank will 
establish the multi-donor trust fund called the PRDP-TF, as requested by the PA.  Second, it will 
provide the proposed DPG.  The DPG is a single operation and should be released based upon a set 
of prior actions developed in areas discussed below.  The first tranche of the PRDP-TF will be 
released under the same conditions as DPG. Future releases from the PRDP-TF will be made based 
upon the IMF and World Bank reviews of the progress towards the PRDP’s reform goals. 
 
The proposed DPG supports actions in the two policy areas highlighted in the LDP: (i) 
strengthening the PA’s
 
fiscal position
 and (ii) 
improving public financial management
.
.
4. Safeguards 
 
The project is expected to have minimal environmental effects.  It is a budget support operation and 
is not subject to any safeguard issue. The project supports efforts by the PA to increase collection of 
utility fees and reduce the level of public employment.  Both actions could negatively affect the most 
vulnerable groups.  Consequently, the PA is making the development of the social safety net 
targeting data base and improvements in the social safety net implementation a high priority.  
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Recipient 0 
WBG Trust Fund 
40 
 Total 
40 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: John Nasir 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-5848 
Email: JNasir@worldbank.org 
 
Steve Wan 
P:\!UNITS\MNSIF\steve wan yan lun\West Bank & Gaza\PRDP\OC\WBG-DPG PID (CN) without track.doc 
05/22/2008 4:49:00 PM
Page  4
4
