                                               Documentof
                                             The World Bank

                                  FOROFFICIALUSEONLY



                                                                               Report No. 43429 - GZ




                                      PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                          FOR A PROPOSEDTRUST FUND GRANT

                              INTHEAMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                         PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
                           (for the Benefitof the PalestinianAuthority)

                                                  FOR A

                  PALESTINIANREFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN
                               DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT

                                   INWEST BANKAND GAZA




                                              May 6,2008




Social and Economic Development Group
West Bank & Gaza Country Department
Middle East and North Africa Region


This document has a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipients only inthe performanceoftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

          WEST BANKAND GAZA-GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR
                         January 1-December 31

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               (Exchange Rate Effective as ofApril 8, 2008)
            Currency Unit            =      New Israeli Shekel (NIS)
                US$1                 --               3.58


                        WEIGHTSAND MEASURES
                              Metric System


                     ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CTA         Central Treasury Account
ESSP        Emergency Services Support Program
GCI         General Control Institute
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GNP         Gross National Product
ICA         Investment Climate Assessment
IDA         International Development Association
IMF         International Monetary Fund
EUMP        Electric Utility Management Project
LDP         Letter of Development Policy
MOF         Ministry o f Finance
MOSA        Ministry of Social Affairs
NIS         New Israeli Shekel
PA          Palestinian Authority
PCBS        Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics
PER         Public Expenditure Review
PFM         Public Financial Management
PIF         Palestinian Investment Fund
PLC         Palestinian Legislative Council
PRDP        Palestinian Reform and Development Plan 2008-2010
PRDP DPG    Palestinian Reform and Development Plan Development Policy Grant
PRDP-TF     The Palestinian Reform and Development Multi-Donor Trust Fund
SSNRF'      Social Safety Net Reform Project
TIM         Temporary International Mechanism
TFGWB       Trust Fundfor Gazaand West Bank
UNRWA       UnitedNations Relief and Works Agency
WBG         West Bank and Gaza



                Country Director: A. David Craig
                  Sector Director: Ritva S. Reinikka
                 Sector Manager: Zoubida Allaoua

                                                                                                       FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                                              WEST BANKAND GAZA
      PALESTINIANREFORM             AND DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT                 PLAN                                         POLICY GRANT

                                                   Table of Contents
GRANTAND PROGRAMSUMMARY                             .......................................................................................................      i
I         INTRODUCTION       .............................................................................................................................       1
I1
 ..       COUNTRYCONTEXT             ....................................................................................................................        3
               RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTSINWEST BANK AND GAZA ............................                                                                       3
               MACROECONOMICOUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY .......................................                                                              6
I11       THE GOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM                               ............................................................................................     9
IV  ..    BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'SSTRATEGY                                                        .....................................................  18
               LINKTO CAS
               COLLABORATION WITH THE IMFAND OTHER DONORS..............................................
                             .............................................................................................................................       18

               RELATIONSHIP TO OTHERBANK OPERATIONS..............................................................                                                19
                                                                                                                                                                 20
               LESSONSLEARNED             ................................................................................................................       22
               ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS                           ..........................................................................................     23
V .       THE PROPOSEDPRDP DPG SUPPORT FOR FISCALSTRENGTHENINGAND
          PUBLICFINANCIAL MANAGEMENT                                 .......................................................................................     24
               OPERATIONDESCRIPTION....................................................................................................                          24
               POLICY AREAS     .........................................................................................................................        26

VI .      OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION                             .............................................................................................      29
               POVERTYAND SOCIAL IMPACTS                            ........................................................................................     29
               IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                                      .................................................
               FIDUCIARY ASPECTS.............................................................................................................. 32               -31

               DISBURSEMENTAND AUDITING                                                                                                                          34
               ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS                      .................................................................................................
                                                                   .........................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                 36

ANNEXES
                                                                       .....................................................................................
ANNEX 2: OPERATIONPOLICY MATRIX .................................................................................................
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY                                                                                                                             39

                                                ..........................................................................................................      49

ANNEX 4: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE (includes countrymap) ...................................................................
ANNEX 3: FUND RELATIONS NOTE                                                                                                                                     58
                                                                                                                                                                 60
MAPIBRD 33512
The PRDP DevelopmentPolicy Grant was prepared by a core team consisting of John Nasir. Team Leader
and Senior Economist; Hisham Waly. Senior Financial Management Specialist; Suhair Musa. Financial
Management Specialist; Rory 0'Sullivan. Consultant; Hyacinth Brown and David Freese. Senior Finance
Officers; Kirsten Propst and Julie Rieger. Counsels; and Steve Wan. Senior Program Assistant Guidance                                            .
has been providedby A. David Craig. Country Director; ZoubidaAllaoua. Sector Manager; FarrukhIqbal.
Sector Manager and ElenaKastlerova. CountryProgram Coordinatorand IMF colleagues                                                     .
The team wishes to thank Mr Mazen Jadallah. Director General. International Relations Department.
Ministry o f Finance; Mr Karim Nashashibi. Advisor to the Prime Minister. Economic and Financial
                          .     .

Affairs. Palestinian National Authority; and other individuals who have contributed to the preparation
process.

This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanceof their
official duties Its contentsmay not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.
               .


                                             - 1 -



                      GRANTAND PROGRAMS U M M A R Y

                                WEST BANKAND GAZA
               PALESTINIAN REFORM       AND DEVELOPMENT           PLAN(PRDP)
                             DEVELOPMENT        POLICY GRANT

Recipient               Palestine LiberationOrganization (PLO) for the benefit of the PalestinianAuthority
                        (PA)
ImplementingAuthority   Ministryof Finance(MOF)of the PalestinianAuthority
Amount                  US$40 million
Terms                   Grant from the Trust Fundfor Gaza and West Bank
Tranching               The proposed grant of US$40 million is a single tranche operation to be
                        disbursed uponsatisfactory completion of the prior actions.

                        The first tranche of the multi- donor trust fund for the PRDP (PRDP TF) in the
                        amount of about US$84 million was released on April 22, 2008, based on
                        similar prior actions as the PRDP DPG. Future releases will be made based
                        upon the IMF and Bank reviews of the PA's progress towards the PRDP's
                        reform goals as set out in the attached policy matrix. Releases will be made
                        every calendar quarter based upon a review of reformprogress by the Bank and
                        IMF. They may also be made inthe case of an extraordinary situationwhen the
                        PLO makes a request in writing and the Bank team is of the opinion that an
                        additional release is justified. In this case the Bank team must still verify that
                        reformprogress.

Description             The proposed operation is designed to support the PA as it implements the
                        reform program detailed in the PRDP. This plan was developed internally by
                        the Caretaker Government, with limited input from the donor community. The
                        plan reflectsthe Caretaker Government's belief that it must move aggressively
                        to control the budget and quit accumulating arrears. It takes advantage of the
                        goodwill and high level of donor support pledgedat the Paris DonorConference
                        in December 2007. To have the largest impact, the project focuses on two
                        specific areas: (i)strengthening the PA's fiscal position; and (ii)improving
                        public financial management. These are critical building blocks for the
                        government o f an independent Palestinian state and are also crucial for
                        attracting continued international donor support. The Bank's involvement in
                        supporting and monitoringthe reform agenda described in the attached policy
                        matrix will strengthenthe PA's capacity to achieve the desiredreforms and also
                        help build the required support among donors. The Bank will supportthe PRDP
                        process in two complementary ways: (i) it has establishedthe PRDPTrust Fund
                        as requested by the PA; and (ii)will provide the proposed development policy
                        grant.

Benefits                The projectshould boost economic growth, establishgood governance, increase
                        private sector development, and improve social and public infrastructure.

Risks                   The PRDP's success depends on parallel actions by the PA, the Government of
                        Israel(GOI) and the donor community.
                        The key risksare:
                        (i)ThePAmustdevelopstrongpoliticalsupportforthePRDPinordertotake
                        actions such as containing the public sector work force at a reasonable level,
                        Freezingsalaries and collectingutility bills.
                        [ii) The PA will not be able to meet its fiscal goals without substantial private

                                         - 11-
                                           ..


                   sector growth. This is dependent onthe G O ~ ~ l a x ~ i t s   Tosureregimeand
                   allowing Palestinian enterprises reliable access to markets. The PA should
                   therefore address the GOI's security concerns. Under the current conditions,
                   sustained private sector growth is not possible, no matter how much external
                   assistance is provided.

                   (iii)DonorsupportisthethirddeterminantofthePRDP'ssuccess. ThePRDP
                   assumes high and sustained donor assistance during the plan's life. In the long
                   run, the PA is strivingtoward fiscal sustainability, but until they reachthis goal,
                   they will depend upon large amounts of untied budget support from donors that
                   will allow them to pay wages and other basic operational costs. Without such
                   help the PA may not be able to build the popular support required to undertake
                   politically difficult reforms.

ProjectIDNumber    P111078

                                  PROGRAMDOCUMENT A       FOR
                 PROPOSEDPALESTINIANREFORM            AND DEVELOPMENT      PLAN
                                 DEVELOPMENT     POLICY GRANT
                                 TO THE WEST BANKAND GAZA




                                   I. INTRODUCTION

1.      Efforts to build an independent Palestinian State have faced enormous political
complications and continued violence. Despite these challenges, the Palestinian National
Authority, supported by the international community, has continued to struggle towards this
goal. Inlate 2000 a second Intifada eruptedthroughout the West Bank and Gaza (WBG) that
culminated in large Israeli military incursions into Palestinian controlled areas in 2002 and
2003. The incursions were accompanied by extensive closures and restrictions on movement
imposed on the Palestinian population. These measures have had a crippling effect on the
economy, health and welfare o f the Palestinian people.

2.      In 2004, the level o f violence ebbed and the economy began to recover slowly.
However, in early 2006 a Hamas led government was elected. In response, most donors
withdrew direct support to the Palestinian Authority (PA) and the Government o f Israel
(GOI) cut off the transfer o f tax clearance revenues that it collects on behalf o f the PA. This
forced the P A to reduce payments o f public salaries and build up substantial arrears to the
private sector. It also led to the deterioration o f many government institutions that had been
laboriously built over the previous decade. At the same time, GO1intensifiedthe application
o f road closures and restrictions on the movement o f people and goods. Israeli settlement
activity and the constructiono fthe separation barrier also continued unabated, which resulted
inevengreater impedimentsto economic activity inthe West Bank and Gaza.

3.      In June 2007, Hamas took control of Gaza by force and on June 17th, President
Abbas dissolved the Hamas led government and swore in an emergency government o f
technocrats, which has since become a caretaker government (Caretaker Government) until
new presidential and parliamentary elections are held. The international community has
rallied around the new Caretaker Government. Most donors have restarted their programs o f
financial and technical support and the GO1has released tax clearance revenues. However,
the Palestinian territories remain effectively split. Gaza, under the control of a Hamas
administration, has been completely isolated by a strict closure policy applied by the GOI.
Violence i s increasing and has included large scale Israeli incursions. The PA continues to
pay most workers in Gaza and deliver basic services such as health and education. But many
central government functions that usedto be performed in Gaza have had to be transferred to
the West Bank. Private sector activity has collapsed and the population subsists on
emergency donor aid. The UN reports that the closures and violence have led to a serious
decline in health indicators for the Gaza population. On the other hand, the West Bank has

                                            - 2 -


seen a decline in violence and an increase in economic growth, albeit from a low base.
However, because of continued Israeli settlement expansion and closures, investment
remainsdepressed.

4.       By early 2008, the Caretaker Government was moving rapidly to re-establish
institutions and rebuild confidence in the West Bank and demonstrate its ability to govern
effectively. In December 2007, it presented the Palestinian Reform and Development Plan
(PRDP) to donors at the Paris Donor Conference. This comprehensive plan lays out reforms
to help re-start economic growth and improve the welfare of citizens. Currently, the plan is
only being implemented in the West Bank, where the new government is in full control.
However, it is designedto be expandedto Gaza as soon as the situation permits. The PRDP
details steps towards fiscal reform and greater government transparency and accountability.
It also sets out apublic investment programto complement the private sector investment that
i s expected to power the economy. The success of the PRDP depends upon parallel actions
by the PA, the donor community and the GOI. Ifthe GO1does not relax its movement and
access restrictions, then the private sector will not be able to grow. Likewise, if the donors
do not provide financial support at the current critical juncture, the government will not be
able to function or implement the reforms.

5.      At the Paris Donor Conference, the international donor community pledged US7.5
billion to fund the PRDP over the 2008-11 period. The PA requested much of the aid in
unrestricted budget support inorder to allocate funds inan optimal way, but many donors are
hesitant to provide funds directly to the PA budget. Some have pledged funds for projects
and others have pledged to pay recurrent costs (mainly salaries) directly. Only a few donors,
including the Bank, have pledged untiedbudget support.

6.      Untied budget support is essential for the PA to function. Its biggest expenses are
salaries (including pensions) and "net lending", much of which are payments by the central
government to the Israel Electricity Company for power supplied to Palestinian
municipalities and other distributors. Domestic revenues are not adequate to cover these
costs. It is also important that the needed external support be provided through the PA's
Central Treasury Account (CTA). Using the CTA helps the PA develop budget discipline
and strengthen its public financial management systems, which were severely damaged
during the aid cut in2006.

7.      To encourage donors to use the CTA, the Bank and the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) have jointly agreed to monitor and report to donors on a quarterly basis, the PA's
allocation and use of funds, andto assess progress inmeeting the goals outlined inthe PRDP.
The monitoring will focus on progress in improving the fiscal position and public financial
management. In addition, the Caretaker Government asked the Bank to establish a multi-
donor trust fund called the PRDP-TF, to support the PRDP by providing untied budget
support through the CTA. The Bank has established the PRDP-TF and at the request of the
PA, will also provide direct budget support through this DPG of US$40 million. The PA

                                           - 3 -


 believes that such deep Bank involvement will help mobilize otherwise reluctant donors to
 support their reform planandprovide budget support.


                               11.    COUNTRYCONTEXT

 RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTSINWEST BANKAND GAZA

 8.     Suffocated by strict closures and batteredby violence during the recent Intifada, the
Palestinian economy has been in steady decline for the last several years. Per capita GDP is
 estimated to have fallen by nearly 30 percent from US$1,6 10 in 1999 to around US$1,130
 in 2006.   Except for a short period between 2003 and 2005, when the economy was
recovering from the worst of the Intifada s violence and Israeli incursions, growth has been
negative every year since 2000. During the last two years the collapse has accelerated. GDP
contracted by nearly 8.8 percent in 2006 and by 4.2 percent in the first quarter of 2007.
Though final 2007 figures have not yet beenreleased, it appears that growth resumed in the
second half of 2007 concurrent with the improved security situation. Despite the closure of
Gaza, GDP is expected to be higher in 2007 than 2006. However, it will still be around 15
percent below its peak in 1999. Far more troubling than the negative growth rate i s that the
economy's productive base appears to be hollowing out. GDP levels have beenmaintained
by government recurrent expenditures and private consumption funded by donor aid and
remittances, while investment has fallen to exceedingly low levels. Consequently, when the
conditions for growth are re-established there will be little left of the productive base.

9.      GDP did not decline as much as expected after most donors suspended direct aid to
the PA in 2006. A combination of borrowing, remittances and increased aid that flowed
separately from the government propped up GDP and allowed both public and private
consumption to remain strong. A recent Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics (PCBS)
survey estimates that despite the economic crisis, household consumption dropped by only
0.6 percent between 2005 and 2006. But while consumption may have remained robust
because humanitarian aid remained strong, long term investment of the type that would
preserve and expand employment fell to precariously low levels. Public investment nearly
ceased and inthe last two years, almost all government funds have beenusedto pay salaries
and cover operating costs. Private investment is also low andthe IMF estimates that it fell by
over 15 percent between 2005 and 2006. This i s supported by a recent World Bank
Investment Climate Assessment, which found that less than a quarter of private sector firms
made any investmentsin2005/2006 and that the equipment inmanufacturing enterprises was
on average over 10 years old. The lack of investment in public infrastructure and private
enterprises i s eliminating any residue of the Palestinian productive base and leading to
increased aid dependency.

10.     The current closure policy on Gaza has substantially eroded the local economy there.
According to the Palestinian Federation of Industries, by the end of 2007, the restrictions

                                             - 4 -


 have led to the suspension of 95 percent of Gaza's industrial operations (Table 1). The
 agriculture sector has also beenbadly hit and most of the nearly 40,000 workers who depend
 on the export of cashcrops are out of work. Manufacturers and farmers can access neitherthe
 inputs for production nor their export markets, transforming Gaza into a consumer economy
 driven by public sector salaries andhumanitarian assistance only.



                                  June 2005           Week 1, July       December5,2007'
                              Pre-disengagement          2007
      Working                         3,900                 780                     195
      Establishments'
      WorkingEmployees'              35,000               4,200                   1,750
      Exports from Gaza                 748                   0                      34
      (truckloads)'                                                     (recent shipments of
                                                                            strawberries and
                                                                               carnations)




 11.      Despitethe large inflows of aid, unemployment and poverty continue to rise inWBG,
mainly because of the collapse of the private economy. In the West Bank, unemployment
rose from 9.5 percent in 1999to around 19percent in2007. InGaza, it went from 17 percent
to over 26 percent inthe same period. But unemployment figures mask the true impact of the
economic decline as they do not account for the many workers who have become
discouraged and left the labor force or are underemployed. A better measure is poverty,
which has steadily increased. In 1998, the percentage of the population living below the
poverty line was 20 percent in the West Bank and 33 percent in Gaza. By 2006, this had
increased to 24 percent in West Bank and 51 percent in Gaza. There are no reliable poverty
figures for 2007, but given the current situation, the poverty levels in Gaza are undoubtedly
muchhigher than they were at the end of 2006. These rates reflect actual consumption. If
remittances and food aid are excluded and poverty i s based only on household income, the
rate in Gaza would rocket to almost 67 percent. This starkly illustrates the level of aid
dependency inWBG.

12.       The reduction in the number of workers allowed into Israel and the settlements
because of perceived security concerns has contributed to the deteriorating unemployment
and poverty situation. The presentpopulation growth inWBG of around 3 percent per annum
i s creating an ever larger work force. Historically, the large surplus o f Palestinian labor found
an outlet in the Israeli economy. However, since the beginning of the second Intifada, the
GO1has been steadily cutting back on the number of Palestinianspermittedto work in Israel
with the goal of completely eliminating them in the near future.             Israel considers East
Jerusalem andthe area west of the SeparationBarrier as a part of Israel, which cuts off many
Palestiniansfrom their traditional source o f employment. Overall, the number of Palestinians

                                                 - 5 -


 working in Israel or its settlements has declined by nearly 55 percent since 1999.' Over that
 same period, the share o f the work force employed inIsrael has fallen from 23 percent to less
 than 10 percent, all o f whom are from the West Bank as Gaza i s now completely closed and
 no workers from there are allowed into Israel (Figure 1). The loss of these relatively high
 payingjobs has beena devastating blow to the Palestinianeconomy and it i s a major factor in
 the growing poverty. Few of those previously employed inIsrael have found similar jobs in
 the Palestinian territories and most remain unemployed, underemployed or have been
 absorbed into the swollen public sector.

 13.      Faced with an expanding work force and a shrinking private sector, the P A has acted
 as the employer of last resort and taken on many o f the unemployed in the civil service and
 security forces. The work force has expanded nearly 60 percent since 1999 and at the end o f
 2006 stood at about 157,800. It continued to expand in early 2007 to over 170,000 but the
 new Caretaker Government has taken tough action to control the pay roll. It refused to pay
 nearly 31,000 workers, who were hired since the end o f 2005 saying they were improperly
hired. Inaddition, the Caretaker Government has held down the growth inthe work force by
refusing to convert many workers with temporary contracts to regular employees. Currently,
there are less than 150,000 budget financed public employees. But the PA will be hard
pressed to reduce the work force any further. Unless the economy improves and rapid
growth resumes, there will be little political support to shed workers who have no recourse to
jobs inIsrael or the private sector.

         Figure 1: Share of WB and Gaza Work Force Employed In Israel or Settlements

             30.0


             25.0


          g$
           p)20.0


             15.0
          *
          0
             10.0


              5.0


              0.0
                  1999    2000  2001    2002   2003   2004    2005  2006    2007-   2007-  2007-
                                                                             Q1      Q2     Q3
                                               1 -WB        Gaza 1
       Source: PCBS 2006 Labor ForceSurvey


I The number of workers includes both those that have permits to work in Israel and those that are working
illegally.

                                            - 6 -


 MACROECONOMICOUTLOOK

 14.     The PA's fiscal situation has been a key factor in the political stability of the WBG
because of the dependence of so many families on government jobs and the importance of
government spending as an economic driver. The PA fiscal position i s both unstable and
unsustainable given the limited space for maneuver on both the spending and revenue sides.
The Caretaker Government has made improving the fiscal position one of its primary tasks
and has taken a number of steps towards this goal. However the success of its efforts
depends on re-establishing economic growth which in turn depends on a loosening of the
Israeli closure regime.

 15.    As described above, the PA's long-standing fiscal crisis became acutely worse in
2006 when the GO1withheld clearance revenues and donors suspended direct aid to the PA.
While most donors cut off direct aid to the Caretaker Government, they have actually
increased overall funding by sending it through the EU's Temporary International
Mechanism (TIM), the Office of President Abbas, and other mechanisms.                 The IMF
estimates that external aid towards recurrent operations reached US$740 million in 2006,
over double the amount reached in 2005. Yet, overall resources for recurrent expenditures
fell by a third and the PA accumulatedabout US$O.9 billion in expenditure arrears including
US$385 million in arrears on net wages (excluding those related to pensions and other wage
deductions), US$l75 million in arrears on pension contributions (employees' and
government's contributions), and US$200 million in arrears to the private sector (including
Israeli suppliers andunpaid domestic tax refunds).

 16.    Non-wage operating costs, transfers, and spending on utilities and energy continued
to grow despite the decrease in funding. The fall inresources meant that spending had to be
prioritized. Wages were accorded the highest priority. However, beginning in the second
quarter of 2006, wages could only be partially paid. Overall, includingTIM payments, civil
servants received about 60-65 percent of their wages. Yet, these payments absorbed nearly
half of the available financial resources. Social benefits and spending on utilities and energy
took up the rest of the available finance. Payments to cover production and consumption of
energy and utilities, including subsidies of domestic petroleum products amounted to around
US$400 million.

17.     The PA's underlying financial position continued to deteriorate at an increasing rate
in2007. Inthe first half of 2007, the deficit was running around US$l00 million a month,
putting it on track to exceed the 2006 deficit. The liquidity situation in 2007 was eased by
the GOI's decision to release the stock of withheld clearance revenues and resume regular
transfers following the appointment of the Caretaker Government. However, the bulk of the
clearance revenues went to fund current operations and not to pay down arrears. The wage
bill continued to expand as a result of both hiring and wage increases. Consequently, even
with the resumption of monthly tax clearances and a recovery of domestic tax collections, the
wage bill in 2007 exceeded government revenues (Table 2). Despite this, after June 2007,

                                             - 7 -


the government committed to paying full salaries, which implies that all non-wage
expendituressuch as energy and infrastructure hadto be covered by external finance.

 18.    The PA's largest liabilities are the pension systems, which are accruing additional
unfundedliabilities every month. In2008, pensionpayments to about 17,000 employees will
cost about US$165 million. 75 percent o f this amount will have to come from the PA's
budget because the pension reserves - which were never designedto provide full funding o f
accrued liabilities - have been exhausted faster than expected. In Gaza, the Gaza Pension
Insurance Corporation (GPIC) i s technically insolvent and i s only liquid because o f the
continuing budget transfers. GPIC has a claim o f over US$300 million in unpaid obligations
by the PA; however these arrears are unlikely to be paid off inthe foreseeable future. Public
sector pension schemes in WBG are among the most generous inthe world, relative to length
o f service and lifetime contribution-covered earnings. Neither the 2005 pension law for
security services nor the Uniform Pension Law rendered the system fiscally affordable or
socially equitable; consequently, the PA will have to deal with the pension issues soon ifthey
are to ever reach fiscal sustainability.

 19.    The PA has only a limited ability to increase domestic revenues. The Palestinian
InvestmentFund(PIF) has depletedits assets and cannot be expected to maintainits previous
level o f funding. There are no figures on how much the PA owes to domestic banks but they
are not making new loans and are continuing to reduce their exposure to the Caretaker
Government. Overall, tax revenues are expected to rise only by a small amount over the next
few years. While some gains are expected from increased efficiency intax collection, losses
are also expected from the closure o f Gaza and the meltdown o f its economy: the P A loses
not only the VAT and customs duty from Gaza trade, but also tax revenues inthe West Bank
from enterprises for whom Gaza sales were important.

The Way Forward

20.     The PA is ina difficult fiscal situation, with a large deficit and a significant stock o f
arrears. Its external debt i s unclear. It owes substantial amounts to Arab donors but much o f
this is beingreclassified into grants. Consequently, the PA's main debt burdenis the arrears
owed to the private sector and public employees, which are currently estimated at about $900
million. It i s dependent on external financing to pay for its current operations and it i s a
month to month struggle to raise the necessary aid. The PRDP presents a plan, jointly
developed with the IMF, to achieve a sustainable budget within the envelope o f expected aid
in the next two to three years. It must be recognized that this plan is based on optimistic
assumptions, and includes matters which are beyond the control of the P A itself.             The
baseline scenario inthe PRDP assumes growth o f 3.5 percent in2008 rising to 5 percent and
6 percent in 2008 and 2009 respectively. This economic growth i s projected to increase tax
revenues, reduce the costs o f social transfers and reduce the deficit as a share of GDP. The
P A also plans to hold the line on the public payroll, take steps to collect electricity bills and
reduce net lending, strengthenpublic financial management and improve tax collection.

                                                             - 8 -


21.        The success of this plan depends on parallel actions by the GO1 and the donor
community. The estimates of economic growth assume that the GO1 will relax its closure
regime and allow the Palestinian economy to function. If there is a return to violence or if
movement and access is not improved, then the growth targets and consequently the fiscal
targets will not be met. In this case, the PA will once again accumulate large arrears. The
PRDP also assumes very high levels of external finance, particularly for untied budget
support. The PRDP projects external financing needs for 2008-2010 at US$5.6 billion,
including US$3.9 billion for the recurrent deficit and US$1.6 billion for development
expenditures. While the total pledges exceed this amount, the amount for recurrent
expenditures falls short by over US$2 billion. For 2008 pledges for recurrent expenditures
are about $1.1 billion, including US$700 million for the European countries,US$200 million
from Arab countries and US$l50 million form the United States. However, this still leaves
the PA nearly $500 million short of what is needed. Unless new sources of untied budget
support are found, the PA may be forced to resume accumulating arrears inthe second halfof
2008.

Table 2: West Bankand Gaza: CentralGovernmentFiscal Operations,2005-10

                                                                              2007   2008       2009   2010
                                                              2005    2006   Year    Projection
                                                                             Est.
Total revenues                                                1,232   1,149   1,186  1,289      1,418   1,578
  Gross domestic revenues                                     476     378     336    363        399    447
  Clearancerevenues(accrued)                                  757     771     850    926        1,018   1,130
     Clearancerevenues (cash)                                 894     344     1,280  926        1,018   1,130
     Clearancerevenues (net arrears accumulation)             -137    427    -430    0         0       0

Total recurrent expenditures and net lending (commitment
basis)                                                        1,994   2$10   2,553   2,521     2,567   2,624

  Wage expenditures (commitment)                              1,001   1,189   1,295   1,285     1,311   1,337
     Wage expenditures (cash)                                 1,001   658     1,295   1,360     1,411   1,437
     Wage expenditures (net arrears accumulation)             0       532    0       -75       -100    -100

  Nonwageexpenditures (commitment) 1/                         649     745    747     770       789     810
     Nonwageexpenditures (cash)                               649     392    717     820       864     910
     Nonwageexpenditures (net arrears accumulation)           0       353    30      -50       -75     -100

  Net lending                                                 344    376     512     466       467     477

Recurrentbalance(commitment basis, before external
budgetarysupport)                                             -762   -1,161  -1,367  -1,232    -1,149  -1,046
 add: expenditure arrears (net accumulation)                  ...    884     30      -125      -175    -200
 subtract:net clearance withheld (+) or transferred from past
collections(-)                                                -137   427     -430    0         0       0

Recurrentbalance(cash basis, before external budgetary
support)                                                      -625   -704    -907    -1,357    -1,324  -1,246
 add: external budgetary support 2/                           349    738     907     1,361     1,328   1,250

Recurrent balance(commitment basis,after external
budgetarysupport)                                             -413   -423    -460    129       179     204

                                                               - 9 -


                                                                                   2007    2008      2009    2010
                                                                2005       2006    Year    Projection
Recurrent balance (cash basis, after external budgetary
support)                                                        -216       34      0       4         4       4

Capital expenditures                                            287        173     306     421       550     667

Overall balance (cash basis, including capital
expenditures)                                                   -563       -139    -306    -423      -546    -663

Total other financing                                           563        139     306     423       546     663
   Advancesand other paymentsby PalestinianInvestment
Fund(PIF)                                                       173        146     70      0         0       0
   Net domestic bank financing                                  304        -171    -70     0         0       0
   External financingfor capital expenditures                   287        173     306     427       550     667
   Netexternaldebt                                              0          0       0       -4        -4      -4
   Residual                                                     -202       -8      0       0         0       0

Memorandum items:
   Revenues, as percentof GDP                                   27.5       26.1    24.6    24.9      25.3    25.8
   Recurrentexpendituresand net lending, as percent of GDP      44.5       52.6    53.0    48.7      45.8    42.8
       Wage expenditures, as percentof GDP                      22.4       27.1    26.9    24.8      23.4    21.8
       Nonwageexpenditures,as percentof GDP                     14.5       17.0    15.5    14.9      14.1    13.2
       Net lending, as percentof GDP                            1.7        8.6     10.6    9.0       8.3     7.8

   Recurrentbalance(commitment basis) beforeexternal
budgetary support,   as percentof GDP)                          -17.0      -26.4   -28.4   -23.8     -20.5   -17.1
   External budgetarysupport, as percent of GDP                 7.8        16.8    18.8    26.3      23.7    20.4
  Overallbalance, as percento f GDP                             -12.6      -3.2    -6.3    -8.2      -9.7    -10.8
   Total externalsupport for the budget(recurrentand capital)   636        911     1,213   1,788     1,878   1,917
  Nominal GDP                                                   4,478      4,393   4,820   5,172     5,610   6,123
  Number of public employees (thousands; end of period)         151        167     150     153       156     159

Sources: Ministry of Finance, and IMF staff estimates.
1/ Including minor outlays for domestically financedcapital expenditures.
2/ Externalfinancingin 2006 includesonly documented
amounts.



                       111.       THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM-THE PRDP

22.         In late 2007, the Caretaker Government initiated widespread consultations in
preparation for the PRDP. The PRDP is a comprehensive and ambitious set of reforms that
detail plans for spurring economic growth, establishing good governance and moving
towards the ultimate goal of an independent Palestinian State. The focus of the PRDP is on
improving the PA's fiscal position and strengthening governance while maintaining a
consistent level of expenditure and investment in the social sectors and public goods, and
supporting the environment for private sector development. The following section discusses
what the PA hopes to accomplish under the PRDP inthe areas supportedby the PRDP DPG.

A.         Governance

23.        Since June 2007, mindful of the need to restore the trust of citizens in its capacity to
govern, the PA has redoubled its efforts to bring safety, security and good governance to the

                                                    - 10-

occupied territories. While their ability to govern effectively in Gaza has been compromised
by Hamas' seizure of control, the Caretaker Government has already made important
progress in restoring law and order and better governance in the West Bank. However, they
still have far to go to upgrade all Palestinian institutions o f government. Their goal i s to
create a secure and stable internal environment in which social and economic development
can take place.

24.     The P A has made significant progress inbuildinginstitutions, including passing some
o f the most progressive economic and social laws inthe Arab world and conducting peaceful
free and fair elections. A series o f public financial management reforms - including the
establishment o f the CTA, the formation of an internal audit function and the timely
publication o f public financial information - put the PA ahead o f many countries in the
region. However, progress has been frustrated, and sometimes reversed, by insecurity and
political and economic instability. The last two years have witnessed an unprecedented
political and fiscal crisis that has brought the P A to the brink o f collapse. The withdrawal o f
direct donor support following the elections in2006 was a major cause o f this fiscal crisis. It
led to a public sector strike during 2006 and early 2007, the near collapse of the institutions
built up over the last several years and created great social distress, particularly as education
and health services almost ground to a halt.

Security and the rule of law

25.     Security i s a national goal and an essential element o f the enabling environment for
economic growth and social development. It i s one o f four national goals espoused by the
PRDP, the others being: good governance, national prosperity and enhanced quality o f life.
Without first establishing security, it is unlikely that the other PRDP goals, including the
ones supported by the PRDP DPGwill be attainable.

26.     As set out inthe PRDP, the PA is committed to bringingsafety and security to WBG.
The immediate goal is to return to the status quo ante before the escalation o f conflict in
September2000 by resumingfull security control inArea A.2The ultimate goal is to assume
full authority andresponsibility for security withinand at the borders o fthe futurePalestinian
state.

27.     The PA has already made significant progress inimproving security inthe West Bank
since mid-2007. This includes the seizure o f illegal weapons, the beginning o f deployment o f
Palestinian police inmajor cities, and implementing procedures to ensure that all members o f
the security services are identified and reporting for duty. These are important first steps in
an ongoing process to establish law and order throughout the occupied territory.

28.     To compliment the upgraded security services, the PRDP also calls for the P A to


 Area A refers to the territory that under the Oslo accord the P A has full civil and security control over. InArea
Bthe PA has civil control only and Area C is fully occupied byIsrael.

                                             - 11-

develop a justice reform strategy. The strategy will be developed during 2008 and will
include a thorough assessment of investment and technical assistance needs. The
development of the strategy will be the first phase inthe `Justice Now' (JN) program, which
seeks to strengthen the judiciary through the provision of institutional capacity-building to
the HighJudicial Council, the Attorney General andthe Ministry ofJustice.

Fiscal reform

29.     Fiscal reform i s a cornerstone of the PRDP reform process. As detailed above, over
time, risingpublic expenditurehas created serious fiscal problems. Rapidgrowth inthe wage
bill has crowded out non-salary expenditures andthe budget deficit has risen to unsustainable
levels. Consequently, the PA has become almost completely dependent on international aid
to fimd not only development expenditures but most o fthe operating expendituresrequired to
deliver basic services. Also, a liquidity crisis, precipitated by economic sanctions during
2006, led to the accumulation of a large stock of arrears due to public sector employees (Le.,
unpaid salaries) and to private sector suppliers, reaching a peak of US$1.3 billion during
2007.

30.     During the second half of 2007, the PA launcheda series of policy actions to address
the fiscal crisis:

  i. Wagebill reduction-Littlemorethantwoyears ago, thenumberofpublicsector
        employees stood at just under 137,000 and, during 2007, reached a peak o f 189,000.
        The PA has implemented a plan to reduce this to less than 150,000. This has been
        done through the elimination from the payroll of employees who were not legally
        appointed, leading to an 8 percent reduction of the wage bill in N I S terms. Going
        forward, the PA is committed to a containment policy to ensure that the previous
        irresponsible hiring practices are not repeated. The containment policy is premisedon
        a baseline employment figure of 150,000, with a modest level of necessary
        recruitment-particularly inthe Education and Health sectors-to meet basic service
        needs of a growing population. Additional recruitment will be subject to an upper
        limit of 3,000 per year. Also, there are to be no general public salary increases over
        the next three years. As a result, the wage bill is projectedto decrease from 27 percent
        of GDP to about 22 percent by 2010, a level similar to 2004.
  ..
  11.   Net lending - The cost of subsidizing citizens' consumption o f energy and other
        utilities represents a significant drain on government financial resources. This i s
        primarily driven by the `net lending' phenomenon in the electricity sector which
        arises due to the non-collection (by utilities and municipalities) of electricity bills and
        the diversion of utility fees to fund municipal operations. This forces the central
        government to fund payments to the Israel Electricity Company (IEC) for bulk
       purchases of electricity in order to avoid service disruption. Net lending accelerated
       rapidly in 2006 and is currently accumulating at a rate of approximately US$50
       million per month; the PA and IMF estimate that it reachedabout US$530 million for
       the year 2007. Underthe PRDP, the Ministryof Finance (MOF) is working with local

                                             - 12-

         government officials to implement a plan that will progressively reduce net lending
         from 10.6 percent of GDP in 2007 to 7.8 percent in 2010. This plan, which calls for
         enforcement measures such as a requirement for citizens to present a `certificate of
         payment' of utility bills inorder to receive any municipal services, will progressively
         bring an end to the non-payment of electricity bills. Also, public sector employees
         will be subject to salary deductions inrespect of unpaid utility bills. These regulations
         will, however, be accompanied by provisions to ensure continued access to utilities
         services for those suffering extreme poverty. These very poor will be identified
         through the Ministry of Social Affair's poverty targeting mechanism and a specific
         `lifeline' level of electricity will be provided to ensure that poor and vulnerable
         families are not deprived of access. Beyond this, utility provision will be based on
         economic principles and will be, within a finite timeline, provided under a full cost-
         recovery basis. To achieve this, the Caretaker Government i s establishing electricity
         distribution companies that will be run on a commercial basis and i s calling for all
         local government electricity departmentsto be transferred to their control. Under the
         current circumstances, many of the actions to reduce net lending cannot be
         implementedin Gaza. Accordingly, while implementation of the plan is expected to
         yield a substantial reduction in net lending for electricity consumption in the West
         Bank, the PA believes that these savings could be partially offset by projected
         increases in net lending related to growth in electricity and water consumption in
         Gaza, andhigher oil prices.
 ...
 111.    Tax administration reforms - The PRDP calls for administrative reforms directed at
         further increasing the collection of tax and customs revenues. These will include a
         variety of administrative and technical measures, including the creation of a `Large
         Taxpayer's Office', focused inspections on fast-growing businesses with high cash
         incomes, strengthened supervision at crossings, automation of administrative
         procedures, and specializedtraining.

 iv.     Payment ofarrears - The PA intends to repay a substantial proportion of the arrears
         due to the private sector, governmentpension schemes and government employeesby
         the end of 2010. They hope that this will helpjump start an economic recovery by
         injecting approximately US$ 500 million into the economy during the next three
         years. Paying arrears is also important to restore levels of confidence in the PA and
         the domestic marketplace.

31.      One of the most pressing problems facing the PA is the underfunding of public
pensionplans. During 2008, the Caretaker Government is committed to launching a thorough
institutional review of the pension system, with a view to establishing appropriate
arrangements and plans for reforms that will ensure its fiscal sustainability, while
maintaining a reasonable level o f social protection for pensioners. The PRDP DPG supports
this andBank technical staffwill assist indevelopingthe program.

Accountability and transparency

32.     The Caretaker Government has made improving accountability and transparency one

                                             - 13-

o f its highest priorities and this i s another area o f focused support under the PRDP DPG.
Substantial progress has already been made in restoring accountability and transparency to
public financial management through reconstitutingthe CTA, preparing budgets for 2007 and
2008, and preparing the PRDP.

33.      Inearly 2008, the Caretaker Government plans to appoint an"Accountant General" to
supervise treasury, cash and debt management, budget execution, payroll, and accounting
and financial reporting. It has also established a new "General Accounting Department" to
implementthe improved accounting system.

34.     The PA plans to introduce an upgraded computerized accounting system, including
commitments control and cash flow management functionality in 2008. It i s beingpiloted in
the MOF and will soon be rolled out to the Ministries o f Education and Health (the major
spending ministries). The system, which will also allow for decentralized budget execution
(and hence greater accountability), will be rolled out to the remaining ministriesby the endo f
2008. However, it is not clear that the PA will be able to roll it out that quickly.

35.     The Caretaker Government seeks to deliver more open government and greater
accountability to citizens. They are also committed to the principle o f separation o f powers
and strengthened oversight o f the executive branch by the legislature and the judiciary.
However, they are constrained in their ability to pass primary legislation because o f the
current deadlock in the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC). This should not prevent the
PA from developing new legislation that can be passed by presidential decree until the PLC
resumes functioning. But any legislation passed this way must be reconsidered by the PLC
once it resumes meeting.

36.     The PRDP details the `Open and Accountable Government' (OAG) program which
the PRDP DPG will support through its focus on public financial management. The OAG
will consist o fthree sub-programs:

        System and process re-engineering - including capacity-building in implementing
        integrated policy-making, planning, budgeting and accounting processes (from the
        Prime Minister's Office through to line ministries and agencies), capacity-building
        for the office o f the Accountant General, implementation o f a government-wide
        accounting and financial management information system, and strengthening o f
        internal financial control functions;

        Building effective oversight institutions - including capacity-building for independent
        audit functions and the Palestinian Legislative Council secretariat; and

        Monitoring and evaluation of government performance - including capacity-building
        for a dedicated function at the center o f government to monitor, evaluate and report
        on the efficiency and effectiveness o f government performance and service delivery.

                                             - 14-


Administrative and civil service reform

Containing the wage bill will require the PA to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness o f
the civil service. Without an effective civil service system, the PA will not be able to resist
the pressure to increase hiring, raise wages and speed promotions. Consequently, civil
service reform is an integral part o f the fiscal strategy and the PRDP includes steps to
enhance the efficiency and effectiveness o f government by modernizing public
administration and civil service management.

37.     The "Efficient and Effective Government" (EEG) program consists o f three sub-
programs:

        Reform of the public sector legislative framework - drafting and upgrading laws and
        regulations that govern the mandates, structures and internal procedures o f
        government bodies;

        Organizational and institutional development - including detailed functional and
        strategic capacity building reviews o f all ministries and agencies, organizational
        restructuring and streamlining o f the public sector, the introduction o f e-government,
        assistance to ensure that the Central Elections Commission i s properly prepared to
        conduct forthcoming elections, and upgrading o f the post office system; and,

        Civil service management - including implementation o f modernized human
        resources management systems and procedures, including merit-based appointments
        processes, employee performance evaluation mechanisms, reform o f pay and grading
        structures, and leadership training.

Local government reform

38.     The Palestinian government systemis one of the most decentralized inthe region and
the local governments are major service providers. They are also an important part of the net
lending equation since municipalities divert much of the utility revenues to fund their
operations instead o f paying for electricity they distribute. Thus, improving local government
finances i s essential for addressing the PA's own fiscal problem. The PRDP proposes the
`Accountable Local Government' (ALG) program which would: introduce new legislation to
clarify and regulate the relationship betweencentral and local government; establish a policy
framework which promotes fiscal autonomy and discipline at the local level; and build the
operational, administrative and financial management capacity o f local government bodies.
However, there are few details about this and it i s again not certain that the P A will be able to
effectively pass new legislation inthe short run.

39.     The Municipal Development and Lending Fund (MDLF) is expected to be the
primary source o f development-linked assistance to municipalities, and to support essential
administrative and financial management reforms. Several donors have already programmed
significant assistance to the MDLF, and are likely to increase their assistance over the three-

                                             - 15 -

year period. The MDLF i s the PA's preferred mechanism for channelling reform and
development assistance to local government and disbursementsmust be coordinated with the
MOF. The PRDP DPG will support the first essential task of helping local municipalities
develop modern accounting systems to helpproduce transparent budgets.

B.        Social Development

40.       While the Caretaker Government is committed to pursuing a private sector-led
approach to securing economic growth and social development for all its citizens, it i s also
mindful of the needto protect vulnerable groups, including women and youths, recognizing
that it i s essential that these groups are not left behind as the economy grows. Consequently,
the PRDP calls for heavy investment in social development and to build and maintain
effective mechanisms for social assistance and protection. The PRDP DPG supports this as a
way to mitigate any risks associated with pursuingthe PRDP fiscal goals.

41.       With the population growing at approximately 3 percent per year, and with
unemployment and poverty rising, the Palestinian social sector i s under increasing stress. The
education and health systems are hard-pressed to maintain adequate standards; this has
distracted attention from the pursuit o f more strategic development goals. The increasing
number of safety net programs that focus on protecting households from income risk renders
management o fthe system difficult, reduces targeting efficiency and raises system costs.

42.       Giventhe needto deliver a wide variety of social services and the diversity of social
groups using these services, the PA believes that a combination o f public, private and non-
governmental organizations i s requiredto provide such services. Over the medium term, the
PRDP calls for the development o f a coherent social safety net, where various interventions
complement each other. The P A plans to continue to work closely with UNRWA, which
faces similar challenges inthe delivery o f basic services to refugees, with a view to fostering
comprehensive approaches to Palestinian development across different sectors and
maximizing aid effectiveness, including inrefugee camps.

Socialprotection

43.      Government spending on social protectionhas increased significantly inrecent years.
It doubled to approximately 6.5 percent o f GDP in 2005         - the last year for which reliable
figures are available. Given the increasing hardship and economic recession o f 2006 and
2007, this figure will have risen sharply. Social assistance i s provided through a complex
web of PA organizations, NGOs and other external agencies implementing a series o f
uncoordinated social protection initiatives. This has inevitably led to poor targeting and an
inefficient allocation o f resources. Without coherent reform o f the social safety net, its
efficiency and effectiveness will continue to decline, and Palestinian and international
resources will be wasted.

44.     The PA is in the process of developing a Social Protection Strategy to guide the

                                           - 16-


"Social Protection Reform and Integration" (SPRI) program and the PRDP DPG supports
this process. This is aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness o f social protection.
The Caretaker Government has resumed the updating o f its targeting database to support
more transparent and objective identification o f beneficiaries. The Social Safety Net Reform
Project, which i s supported by the Bank, has designedprocedures to ensure that the 42 proxy
poverty variables are utilized to target the very poor to ensure an efficient use o f resources.
During2008, the Social Safety Net Reform Project is expected to be scaledup by initiating a
process o f merging the various on-going cash assistance programs using the Ministry o f
Social Affairs (MOSA) poverty targeting database as the main (single) mechanism for
identifying ina transparent manner the truly needy. This approach calls for the P A to take the
lead inthe administration o f cash assistanceprograms as a way o f reiterating its commitment
to supporting the truly needy and thereby asking donors to come together to streamline their
assistance. This will include continuing close liaison with the European Union's Temporary
ImplementationMechanism (TIM) that funds the PA's Special Hardship Case Program to the
benefit of about 40,000 households and UNRWA, particularly in the context o f the ongoing
reform o f the Agency's Special Hardship Case program for refugees.

Education, Health and Empowerment

45.     While the PRDP DPG is focused on supporting the PRDP goals o f strengtheningthe
fiscal position, including reducing net lending, and improving public financial management,
it will also support the social protectionagenda. However, there are a number o f other PRDP
goals in areas that have important fiscal implications, such as health and education that the
PRDP DPG does not directly support. The PA sees education as a basic human right and
seeks to guarantee citizens' access to a comprehensive education system consisting of: pre-
school, basic and secondary education; formal and non-formal education; technical and
vocational education; and higher education. The commitment to the education sector i s
illustrated by the fact that education accounts for more than 30 percent o f proposed budget
support for recurrent expenditures and approximately 20 percent o f donor support requested
for the public investmentprogram. With the necessary levels o f support from donors, the P A
believes they can modernize the education system in line with their vision o f a future
Palestinian state - a state with a knowledge-based economy, connected to the global
community that embraces humanistic values and i s tolerant. The Ministry o f Education i s in
the process of finalizing its five year Education Plan for 2007-2012 which will be presented
to the donors for financing.

46.     Untilrecently, Palestinians enjoyed a quality ofhealth care favourable incomparison
to most middle income countries. Prior to 2000, the health care system recorded high levels
o f immunization, prenatal care and effective basic health services. However, strains on the
system are reflected indeclining health indicators in, for example, waterborne communicable
diseases, access to vital services and substantial increases in malnutrition rates and conflict-
related trauma. There i s no doubt that the system faces a unique set o f challenges related to
occupation including, but not limited to, elevated levels o f insecurity and restrictions on

                                            - 17-


mobility. However, despite these challenges, the P A will attempt to continue efforts to meet
 increasing demand for access to health care as well as focus on building strategic
management capacity and reforming health financing to increase the quality and affordability
o f public health care.      The PRDP calls for the development o f a `Health Quality
Improvement' (HQI) program to improve the health care infrastructure and a Health Care
Affordability' (HCA) program that will be directed at achieving a better allocation o f
resources. The Bank has offered limited TA to assist this effort and has initiated a health
 sector review.

47.      The PRDP recognizes an urgent need to implement proactive programs to empower
youth and women in the Palestinian society and to and help alleviate unemployment and
poverty through employment generation initiatives.           The PRDP calls for a `Women's
Empowerment' (WE) program and a "Youth Empowerment' (YE) program to assist women
and youth. These will be coupled with an `Employment Generation Initiative' (EGI) to
provide productive, paid employment and micro-financing programs (such as the ongoing
DEEP program) to unemployed and vulnerable people across the West Bank and Gaza. The
initiative will focus on small and medium-sized labor-intensive infrastructure projects which
make meaningful contributions towards the achievement o f national goals o f enhancing
quality o f life and increasing prosperity.

C.       Economicand PrivateSector Development

48.      It is not possible to meet the goals o f the PRDP without a rapidly growing private
sector to provide the jobs needed by the expanding population and tax revenues to support
the Caretaker Government's programs. The PRDP contends that the Palestinian economy
has enormous potential for future growth, and a revival from its current condition i s urgently
needed. However, continued political uncertainty, combined continued settlement expansion,
restrictions on movement and trade, and restrictions on access to resources, have led to
dwindling investment and have stripped the economy of the bulk of its productive capacity.
The PA's strategy emphasizes that the Palestinian private sector must be the engine of
sustainable economic growth. In the near term, quick-impact initiatives can jumpstart an
economic recovery and createjobs. However, a developmental approach i s also required; one
that encourages the productivity and growth of the industrial, agriculture, housing and
tourism sectors and allows the Palestinianeconomy to develop a diversifiedexport portfolio.

49.      This balanced approach o f the PRDP requires a fundamental change inthe movement
and access regime, and in the investment climate. It also requires the establishment o f a
territorial link between the West Bank and Gaza. The PA cannot implement these steps
alone. The GO1 must take parallel actions to unshackle the movement o f goods and people
within the occupied territory, betweenthe West Bank and Gaza, and out into Israel and other
countries. These must be done in conjunction with the PA taking steps to ensure that Israel's
security concerns are addressed.      Reversal o f the current policies within the occupied
territory, and at the various crossing points, i s required immediately. Without serious actions

                                             - 1 8 -


by the GO1 to remove the matrix o f physical and administrative restrictions, and parallel
security actions by the PA, PA reforms and donor investments will not have a sustainable
positive impact on the economy.

50.     The PRDP calls for the PA to work with the Quartet Representative to implement a
series o f Quick-Impact Projects (QIPs). These are designed to provide near-term stimulus
but, more importantly, to illustrate the positive impact of parallel actions by the PA, the GO1
and donors to create the proper environment for Palestinian businesses to flourish.
Accordingly, the QIPs        incorporated into the medium-term agenda set out below were
selected based on the following criteria: (a) their ability to create economic stimulus, create
jobs, and revitalize the labor market (through greater youth, women, and micro-enterprise
participation); (b) their ability to build export-oriented businesses and supply chain linkages
that can be replicated throughout the occupied territory; and, (c) their reliance on genuine
commitment from the GO1to remove existing restrictions and create a suitable environment
for the re-emergence of investmentand private sector growth.

D.      PublicInfrastructureDevelopment

51.     After years o f conflict and under-development, Palestinian public infrastructure
networks and systems offer limited coverage, are poor in quality and are unaffordable for
some vulnerable groups. Household connection rates to utilities are high compared to the
regional average but actual consumption rates are low due to a combination o f supply
shortages and inefficient distribution systems. Accordingly, substantial investment in public
infrastructure i s required. Over the long-term, the PA will work towards ensuringthat public
infrastructure and utilities are managed on a commercially-oriented and financially viable
basis and, over time, increase the level o f private sector investment and participation in
infrastructure and utilities. Again this i s not directly supported by the PRDP DPG; however
the Bank is active in a number of sectors including power, water and to a limited extent
transport.


           IV.      BANKSUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENT'SSTRATEGY

LINKTO CAS

52.     Since WBG i s not a member country there i s no formal Country Assistance Strategy.
Instead the Bank relies on strategy notes to guide its work and keep the Executive Directors
informed on activities. The latest strategy note was developed simultaneously with the
preparation o f the PRDP DPG. The strategy was endorsed and a request to replenish the
Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank (TFGWB; the source o f financing for all Bank
operations in WBG) in the amount o f US$55 million was approved by the Bank Board on
April 22,2008.

53.     The current strategy emphasizes the Bank's desire to carefully target its limited

                                           -19-


resources to areas where the Bank can be most effective or can leverage additional donor
funds. In addition to budget support, the Bank plans to reinforce its engagement in
infrastructure and helping the PA develop its social safety net. Under the requested
replenishment, the Bank will devote additional resources to the electricity sector, solid waste
disposal and community development.

54.     Along with its grants, the strategy calls for the Bank to use its analytical ability and
technical assistance to leverage other donor funds. Currently, the Bank is carrying out
analytical work on: movement and access issues and their impact on the economy; the
telecommunications sector; providing assistance to the Palestinian Monetary Authority for
the payments system; and supporting the Palestine Central Bureau of Statistics to develop
national statistics. While the Bank will not be able to devote significant resources to these
areas, this analytical work has beenable to mobilize support from other donors.

55.     The main effort of the Bank's new strategy will be to support the PA's
implementation of the PRDP. The PRDP's success depends upon three critical factors:
(i) PAeffectivelycarryingoutpromisedreforms;(ii)
   the                                                     GO1relaxing the closure regime to
allow private sector growth; and (iii)the international donor community providing full
support for the PA's recurrent budget. There is little the Bank can do on the second factor,
which is a purely politicalproblem. Consequentlythe Bank is focusing its efforts on the first
and third factors. The Bank is providing significant amounts of technical assistance to help
the PA implement its reforms. Through its ongoing policy dialogue it is providing the
government with advice and encouragement to remain on track. But the Bank's most
effective efforts are directed at encouraging donor funding of the recurrent budget. The Bank
along with the IMF will produce quarterly reports on reform progress that should provide
donors comfort to increase their support through the CTA. In addition, the Bank plans to
provide its own funds through the proposed PRDP-DPG to help close the fiscal gap. The
Bank has established the PRDP-TF to provide a mechanism for other donors to provide
untied donor support and yet be assured that their funds will be properly accounted for. So
far the PRDP-TF has raisedover US$120 million.

COLLABORATION WITH THE IMFAND OTHER DONORS

56.     The Bank is working closely with the IMF and other donors in its efforts to support
the PA's implementation of the PRDP. As mentioned above, the IMF and the Bank have
been asked to provide joint quarterly reports monitoring the PA's progress in implementing
the PRDP reforms. To enable this monitoring, the IMFwas closely consulted when the Bank
and the PA developedthe policy matrix for this PRDP DPG. Thejoint Bank/IMF reports will
be usedby all donors to assess their support for the PA.

57.     Since the Caretaker Government took office in June 2007, the IMF has resumedfull
contact with the PA and i s providing technical assistance on a variety o f issues. The IMF
helped the PA produce the macroeconomic framework used in the PRDP and is also

                                               - 20 -

providing technical assistance to strengthen public financial management, drawing for the
latter on analytical work done for the Bank's recent Public ExpenditureReview. The IMF i s
providing technical assistance to the Palestinian Central Bureau o f Statistics (PCBS) to help
them develop better basic statistics. Here again the Bank and the IMF collaborate closely.
Good basic economic data i s essential to monitor progress o f the PRDP reforms. Therefore
the Bank has provided fundingto support building the capacity of the PCBS. Inthis effort,
the Bank is coordinating closely with the IMF statistics team to identify exactly how the
funds are best spent.

58.     The Bank participates in a robust system o f donor working groups including one on
fiscal policy and budget support. This group helps coordinate the activities o f the various
donors on all aspects related to public financial management, budget support and fiscal
policy. The single largest source o f budget support comes from the EU PEGASE program
and the Bank coordinates its activities closely with the EU through the working group. In
addition, the EU's efforts will be informed by the Bank/IMF quarterly reports on the PA's
reform progress.

RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS

59.     The Bank's ongoing portfolio consists of 13 projects focusing on water and
sanitation, education, solid waste, municipal finance, land administration, community
development and the NGO sector with a net commitment amount o f US$165 million. This
includes the five recently approved operations (three of which are Additional Financing-AF-
to the ongoing operations). All o f these projects are integrally related to the proposed PRDP
DPG.
      >   Emergency Services Support Program (ESSP-US$lO million), which will
          support services in Education and Higher Education, Health and Social Affairs, by
          financing a portion o f their non-salary recurrent costs. The ESSP Multi-Donor Trust
          Fundhas served as a vehicle for donors to provide another avenue for funding non-
          salary recurrent expenditures for the P A budget, mainly in the social sectors. An
          additional US$25 million in donor co-financing from the EC and other bi-lateral
          donors was received inearly 2008.

      P An ElectricUtility ManagementProject(EUMP-US$l 0 million) whose principal
          objective i s to reduce net lendingfor electricity, by improving payments discipline
          and reducing the costs o f electricity supply. The project aims to strengthen
          electricity utilities, rehabilitate and expand the distribution network in WB&G, and
          expand the transmission network in Gaza. The project will also provide technical
          assistance to: (i)   existing utilities to improve their operating efficiency; (ii)the
         newly-established Northern Electric Distribution Company (NEDCO); and (iii)
         PEA to undertake the next stage o f reforms and explore options for the
          development o f renewable energy. An additional US$lOO million from the
         European Investment Bank, Norway, Sweden and France are expected to be
         leveraged. This project i s complementary to the PRDP DPG and will result in a

                                             - 2 1-

           decrease innet lendingand contribute to the PRDP's goal o f strengthening the PA's
           fiscal position.
      >    Additional funds will be placed into the on-going Social Safety Net Reform
           Project (SSNRP-US$lO million) to mitigate the impact of the continued crisis on a
           subset o f the poorest households and to strengthen the capacity o f Ministry o f
           Social Affairs to manage cash assistance programs. The SSNRP i s expected to be
           substantially leveraged with US$40 million from the EC in parallel financing. It i s
           envisaged that over 70 percent o f funds will be channeled to Gaza, where most o f
           the poor households reside. The SSNRP is a key factor in mitigating any social
           safety concerns of the PRDP process that the proposed PRDP DPG supports. The
           PRDP DPGprior actions are complementary to the SSNRP activities.
      >    A Village and NeighborhoodDevelopmentProject (US$lO million) will support
           local community institutions to provide services in rural and underserved urban
           areas.   The project will provide block grants to communities for small scale
           infrastructure, livelihoods schemes and social programs. The Islamic Development
           Bank i s expected to contribute an additional US$5 million towards this project.
           This project will also helpthe PA achieve its goal ofprotectingthe most vulnerable.
      >    Additional Financing will be placed into the on-going Gaza I1 Emergency
           Water Project (US$5 million- scheduled for Board presentation in mid-2008) to
           ensure provision o f adequate water and wastewater services in Gaza. This project
           will increase the efficiency o f the water delivery system, which will complement
           the PRDP DPG by helping reduce water consumption and thereby reducing net
           lending.
      >    Additional Financing will be placed into North Gaza Emergency Sewage
           Treatment Project(US$12 million- scheduled for Boardpresentation inmid-2008)
          to mitigate the immediate health and environmental safety threats to the
           communities surrounding the effluent lake at Beit Lahia Wastewater Treatment
          Plant and provide a long term solution to the treatment o f wastewater for Northern
          Gaza.

60.    In addition to the projects above, the Bank continues to work with Municipal
Development and Lending Fundto provide development funding and technical assistance to
municipalities. The Bank has continued to deliver a strong AAA program. The Bank's
analytical and policy work has, from the outset, laid the basis for its role inWBG. The Bank
has reviewed movement and access restrictions in the West Bank and potential alternatives
for Palestinian trade corridors (specifically on developing the Rafah corridor), undertaken an
Energy Sector Review which focused on the reduction o f net lending and the promotion o f
energy security and a Telecommunications Sector Note, and provided recommendations for
policy and regulatory reform.       The energy sector review was particularly important in
formulating the PRDP DPG. The Bank has also been involved on pension reform issues over
the past five years and is expected to play a key role inexploring sustainable pensionreform
options for the P A inthe coming years.

                                             - 22 -

LESSONSLEARNED

61.     The PRDP DPG draws on lessons from the Bank's extensive history of engagement
with the PA, including providing budget support. Most recent experience comes from 2004-
06 whenthe Bank managed a multi-donor trust fund called the Public Financial Management
Reform Trust Fundfor the West Bank and Gaza ("The Reform Trust Fund"). This trust fund
provided untied budget support that was disbursed based upon the satisfactorily meeting o f
reform benchmarks agreed to between the donors and the PA and stated in the matrix o f
policy actions (attached as Annex 2).

62.     The success of the proposed PRDP DPG depends upon the PA beingfully committed
to the reform goals. The Bank has a large body o f evidence accumulated over decades o f
development experience around the world, which shows that for successful reform, goals
cannot be imposed from the outside or be established in response to donor pressure. The
previous Reform Trust Fund was less successful than hoped because while the benchmarks
were negotiated with the MOF, there was less buy-in from other ministries. Learning from
this experience, the Ministry of Planning developed the PRDP in close consultation with all
ministries and various advisory groups that included civil society to set goals that are
politically and technically feasible. The P A then presented it to donors at the Paris Donor
Conference inDecember 2007. Inaddition, the P A has already taken significant and difficult
actions to implement the proposed reforms. In this case, failure to meet the reform goals i s
unlikely to reflect a lack of political will but rather factors that are beyond the control o f the
PA.

63.     The highly volatile political situation makes it difficult to hold the PA to specific
benchmarks set several months inadvance, Ifthe political situation deteriorates and violence
erupts once again, the private sector will not grow and the P A will not be able to meet its
fiscal targets no matter what actions it takes. Passing legislation i s difficult in the best o f
times and is made more so when parliamentarians are jailed or refused permission to travel.
Changes inthe donors' political views also affect their willingness to meet their pledgesor to
hold fast to specific benchmarks. Experience from the Reform Trust Fund suggests that the
best approach i s to select a mix o f measures to deepen reform while also taking advantage o f
quick wins. Given the unstable political environment in WBG, reform measures should be
general and define a trajectory o f change rather than specifying a specific end state. In this
way, the PA can be assessed on its progress towards achieving the reform goals in view o f
the current political situation and not be tied to specific quantitative benchmarks that they
may fail to meet because o f circumstances beyond their control. This i s the approach that has
been adopted inthe design of this reform program.

64.     Finally, experience from the Reform Trust Fund revealed that it is challenging to
verify in a fully satisfactory manner that benchmarks have been met. The management
capacity inmany ministries i s still developing. Consequently, inthe case to the Reform Trust
Fund, at times it was difficult for the PA to provide timely documentation to verify that they

                                                     - 2 3 -


had or had not achieved their goals. This demonstrates that it is necessary for the Bank to be
more deeply engaged in a policy related operation such as that proposed. Managing support
for a reform program cannot be done effectively from headquarters. Thus, the leadership for
the proposed PRDP DPG will be located inthe Bank's country office. Inaddition, the prior
actions have been carefully selected, based both on their importance in the reform process
and on how effectively they can be monitored.

ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS

65.       The proposed PRDP DPG is grounded in careful analytical work o f which the most
significant piece i s the World Bank's Public Expenditure Review (PER). The PER was
completed inearly 2007 and details the PA's desperate fiscal position.

66.       It also takes a longer term and more strategic view o f Palestinian public finances. It
addresses two critical and fundamental issues that confront the PA and its partners. The first
i s the challenge o f bringing aggregate expenditure closer to likely revenues and available
financing.      Second, i s the issue o f the composition o f expenditure, and hence its overall
efficiency.      In addition, the PER provides an in-depth analysis of the public financial
management system and provides specific policy recommendations, many o f which have
beenincorporated inthe PRDP

67.       Inadditionto the PER, the IMFhas done substantial analysis ofthe macro framework
and the public financial management (PFM) system. The IMF's analysis i s summarized in
reports prepared for the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee meetingin September 2007 and the Paris
donor's conference inDecember 2007. The IMF reports that the Palestinian public financial
management and procurement systems have been restored to the level that they were
previous to the Hamas government and that donors should resume using the CTA.                                In
February 2008, the IMF completed another PFM mission and in consultation with the PA,
produced a detailed action plan to improve the PFM system. This action plan i s reflected in
the PRDP DPG's policy matrix.

68.       The Bank has also produced a number o f other analytical pieces that inform the
PRDP and proposed PRDP DPG. The bank's power sector review has been usedto help set
the goals for reforming the power sector. There is also a recent report on municipal finances
and how they relate to net lending. To support the design o f the PRDP-TF and this PRDP
DPG, Bank staff compiled all available information and produced a short report on how the
P A can tackle the problem o f unpaid utility bills and reduce net lendingS3The PA will only


  Net lending refers to the PA's financial support to municipalities and other public entities, chiefly to cover
utility expenses. These outlays are recorded as "net lending" because they notionally should be repaid and are
therefore considered assets by the PA. Net Lending is conducted in two ways: 1) the PA provides cash to
entities; and 2) GO1deducts from the tax clearance revenues, what the municipalitiesowe in utility payments.
The majority of net lendingconsists of paymentsfor electricity, rebates to the PalestinianPetroleumAgency for
part of the taxes it incurs on fuel purchases and purchases o f fuel for the Gaza Power Plant.

                                           - 24 -

be able to achieve budget sustainability if the private sector grows. To provide an
 understandingof the constraints to private sector growth, the Bank completedan Investment
 Climate Assessment (ICA) in 2007. The ICA, along with on-going analytical work on
movement and access showed concretely the impact of the GOI's closure regime on the
privatesector.


   V.     THE PROPOSEDPRDPDPG SUPPORT FOR IMPROVING THE FISCAL
                   POSITIONAND PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

OPERATION DESCRIPTION

 Theproposed operation will help the PA to implement the PRDP. It will specijkally support
efforts to improve the fiscal position and increase government transparency and
accountability.

69.     The proposed operation is designed to support the PA as it implements the reform
program detailed in the PRDP. This plan was developed internally by the Caretaker
Government, with limitedinput from the donor community. The planreflects the Caretaker
Government's belief that it must move aggressively to control the budget and quit
accumulating arrears. It takes advantage of the goodwill and high level of donor support
pledged at the Paris Donor Conference in December 2007. To have the largest impact, the
project focuses on two specific areas: (i)strengthening the PA's fiscal position; and
(ii)improvingpublic financial managementto attract additional aid. These are critical
building blocks for the government of an independent Palestinian state and are also crucial
for attractingcontinued international donor support. The Bank's involvement in supporting
andmonitoringthe reform agendadescribedinthe attachedpolicymatrix will strengthenthe
PA's capacity to achieve the desiredreforms and also help buildthe requiredsupport among
donors.

70.     The Bank will support the PRDP process in two complementary ways. First, it has
established the PRDP-TF, as requested by the PA in the attached Letter of Development
Policy (LDP). Second, it will provide the proposedPRDP DPG. The PRDP-TF has been
establishedand, consistent with pledges made at the Paris Donor Conference, several donors
have already transfened funds to the Bank in anticipation of an early agreement to disburse
funds to the PA CTA. The PRDP DPG is a single tranche operation for which the related
funds will be releasedon completionof the prior actions discussedbelow. The first tranche
of the PRDP-TF has been released under similar conditions as the PRDP DPG. Future
releases from the PRDP-TFwill be madequarterly baseduponthe IMF and Bank reviews of
progresstowards the PRDP's reformgoals set out inthe policymatrix attachedas Annex 2 to
this report, although additional disbursements may be made on the written request of the
PLO in extraordinary situations which, in the opinion of the Bank, justify additional
disbursements. It i s envisioned that if the PA continues to make progress on their reform
agenda and there is available funding, then the Bank may be asked to provide additional

                                                -25 -


DPGs. However, given the uncertain nature o f the political environment and the uncertain
size o f future WBG Trust FundReplenishments, this remains a single tranche operation.


                         Box 1. GoodPracticePrincipleson Conditionality

Principle1:Reinforce ownership

Unlike previous reform plans, the PRDP was developed through wide consultations both within the
Caretaker Government and with elements of civil society and is therefore fully owned by the PA.
The policy actions supportedby the operation focus on key measuresthat the Caretaker Government
believes are necessary andpolitically possiblefor the success ofthe PRDP.

Principle 2: Agree upfront with the government and otherfinancial partners on a coordinated and
accountability framework

The policy matrixattachedto this document was carefully discussedand coordinatedbetweenthe PA,
the IMF and Bank. The matrix reflectsthe Caretaker government's prioritiesand will be monitored
through quarterly reports detailingprogressthat the IMFandthe Bank will review.

Principle 3: Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country
circumstances

The reformprogramsupportedby the DPGfocuses on strengthening the fiscal stance of the PA. This
will require continuedsupport fromthe donor community and politicalcommitment onthe part ofthe
authorities. The Bank is moving quickly to support these efforts by establishingthe PRDP-TF and
the proposedPRDP-DPG.

Principle4: Choose only actions that are criticalfor achieving results as conditionsfor disbursement

The PRDP is wide rangingand covers many sectors. However, PA has asked the Bank to focus its
support on two critical areas: 1) strengthening the PA's fiscal position and 2) improving public
financial management. This focus allows the Bank's efforts to be more effective and to determine
specific conditions that are bothcritical to the successandcan be effectively monitored.

Principle5: Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive topredictable andperformance-based
financial support

The PA has committedto providingquarterly progressreviews that will be reviewedby the Bank and
IMF. Tranche releases from the PRDP-TFwill be baseduponthese reviews. However, in exceptional
circumstances when the PA requests it andthe IMFandBank agree, emergencyreleasemay be made.
Other donor agencies will also use the quarterly reviews to informtheir own funding decisions. An
important component of the PRDP is improving the PA's budget process and establishing a
monitoringandevaluationprogram linkedto the budget. This will allow predictableandperformance
basedfinancialsupport



71.     At the request of the Caretaker government the IMF and the Bank will provide
quarterly reports detailing the status o f the reform process. These reports will be used not

                                            - 26 -

only by the Bank to determine whether to release the funds from PRDP-TF but will also be
used by a variety of other donors to set the level of their support. The donor community
expects to see the PA make significant strides towards controlling its budget deficit, by
controlling the wage bill and reducing net lending. The PA has committed to reducing the
wage bill from around 27 percent of GDP to less than 22 percent by 2011. The change in
total net lending will depend onthe cost of fuel, electricity demand and how soon the PA can
regain control of Gaza. However, currently the PA estimates that net lending will decline
from around US$530 million to about US$400 million by 2011. The PA has also committed
to strengthening the PFM system by rolling out a standard accounting system across, all
ministries, producing budgets in a transparent manner, improving commitment controls,
publishing accounts and introducing a systemof external audits by the end of 2011.

POLICY AREAS

72.     The proposed grant supports actions in the two policy areas highlighted in the
attached LDP: (i)strengthening the fiscal position and (ii)improving public financial
management.

i) Strengthening the Fiscal Position

73.     To strengthen the fiscal position, the Prime Minister and his team have determined
that they must control the public work force and reduce net lending.

Prior Action I: Initiate civil service reforms to bring public sector payroll to levels
compatible with theJiscal targets of the PRDPfor theperiod 2008-2010.

Wages and salaries are the largest expenditure in the PA budget and until recently was the
fastest growing component of the budget. By 2007, wages and salaries for public employees
exceeded total domestic revenues and was continuing to grow. To gain control of this
situation, the Caretaker Government has instituteda number of reforms to bring the total PA
wage bill in line with the PRDP plan. The PA has dismisseda number of workers who had
beenrecently hired without going through the required civil service process. Most of these
workers were in the security sector. Inaddition, they have verified the current employment
roll. Together, these actions have reduced the public work force to less than 150,000. In
addition, because of exceptionally large salary increases inprevious years, they have passed
the budget with no general increase in public sector wage levels.               The Caretaker
Government's plan call no general salary increases and limiting growth of public sector
employment to 3,000 annually, primarily in the education and health sectors over the next
three years. These actions are expectedto reduce the wage bill from 27 percent to around 22
percent of GDP by the end of 2010.

Net Lending

Net lending i s one of the largest expenditures in the budget and the largest component of net
lending i s the cost of electricity delivered to the municipalities from the Israel Electricity

                                              - 27 -

 Company (IEC) for distribution to consumers but not paid for by the municipalities.           This
debt to IEC is deducted by the GO1from the income due to the PA from import duties, thus
 lowering the PA revenue from import duties. This situation i s very costly for the PA budget
 and clearly cannot be continued.      The PA's goal is to reduce net lending from US$530
million to about US$400 million by 2010. As the PA takes actions to increase collection
rates, it will ensure that the most vulnerable parts of society are protected.

Prior Action 2: Initiate aprogram to gradually reduce net lending associated with the cost
ofprovision of electricity services.

 74.     A culture of non-payment has developed in large parts of WBG and the first step to
reducing net lending i s to increase the collection rate for electricity bills. In early 2008, the
PA initiated difficult steps to increase collections including introducing prepaid meters and
requiring citizens to pay their bills before receiving public services. These actions have been
targeted to the most able to pay and will not affect the supply of electricity services to the
most vulnerable parts o f the population. The PEA is investigating introducing a lifeline tariff
and no families will have their power disconnected for failure to pay. The PA will continue
both of these measures over the next three years and hopes to distribute more than 100,000
meters by the end of 2011.

Prior Action 3: Establishment of the Northern Electric Distribution.

75.      Collecting utility revenues i s only h a l f the equation. Once they are collected they
must be used to pay for the electricity that is distributed to the consumers. Currently, much of
the electricity in the West Bank is distributed by villages or municipalities and not
independent power companies.         Some of the municipalities use the revenue collected for
electricity to fund their municipal operations instead of paying the IEC or investing to
improve service. To recoup these funds,     - the PA has  decided to establish electric distribution
companies that will operate as commercial entities, independent of the municipalities that
own them. This should improve efficiency, raise collection rates and increase investment in
the sector. The PA recently established a distributioncompany in the northern West Bank to
join distribution companies that cover the rest of the territory. Now the regional utilities must
produce action plans to encourage local governments to give up electricity distribution and
transfer their distribution operations to the n e w commercial companies.         In addition, the
electric utilities must begin to operate on a fully commercial basis. While it is expected that
the utilities will be net providers of funding to the local governments who own them, such
payments should be made only after the utilities have paid for the power they distribute and
made necessary investments. Inthe coming two years, the PA must take steps to ensure that
independent audits verify that the electric utilities are in fact operating on a commercial
basis.

Prior Action 4: Verification of 4,500 households in the targeting databasefor social assistance and
initiation by the Ministry of Social Affairs of regular assistance payments to 2,100 households
verified in the targeting databasethrough the new social safety netpilot program.

                                            - 28 -

 76.     As the PA institutes mechanisms to improve collection of utilitybills, it is essential to
 ensure that the most vulnerable groups in society are protected and receive assistance. To
 more effectively target assistance, the P A i s currently developing a database o f households
 meeting acceptable social security criteria by conducting a program o f verification visits to
 households.     The Ministry of Social Affairs has already begun the process and has
 successfully entered 4,500 households that meet acceptable needs criteria. In addition, the
Ministry is using the new targeting data base to make cash assistance payments to 2,100
households through their pilot program to improve the social safety net. These programs have
now gone beyond the testing phase and are moving ahead at an increasing pace. Going
 forward, the Ministry will continue to build the database and plans to have verified
households at a rate o f 5,000 a quarter by the end o f 2008. The database and system o f
payments being piloted will be usedto establish a national P A administered social safety net
that rationalizes the various cash assistance programs from different donors and
organizations inorder to make optimum use o f existingresources.

         io. Improving Public FinancialManagement

77.      Improved public financial management and greater transparency i s necessary to not
only increase government's efficiency, but to attract donor support for untiedbudget support.
This is a top priority for the PRDP as well as for the proposed PRDP DPG. The program
begins with re-establishing basic controls and moves on to developing a system o f internal
and external audits. Producing annual budgetsina transparent manner i s a key component.

Prior Action 5: Establishment of a "UniJied Chart of Accounts" for municipalities and
finalization of a budget manual andfixed assets registration manual that are being used by
municipalities in the West Bank.

Reducing net lending will also require the P A to improve local government finances. To
wean local governments from their dependence on utility fees, they will have to improve
their efficiency and develop alternate sources o frevenue. The proposed PRDPDPGsupports
the first step inthis process, which is to improve local government financial management and
increase transparency. Improving local government financial management i s not only
important for reducing net lending, but i s also a key component o f the PRDP DPG's other
main pillar improving public financial management. Once municipalities are producing clear
accounts and well planned budgets, next steps will include improving revenue collection by
devolving tax collection from the central government to local governments and developing
new sources ofrevenues.

Prior Action 6: Approval of the 2008 budget by the cabinet of the PA and commencement of
publication of monthly expenditure and revenue statements by the MOF.

78.     A fully developed budget is the Caretaker Government's guiding document and is
critical for transparency. Without a comprehensive budget, government agencies can neither
plan nor deliver effective services. At the same time, the budget must be made available so

                                            - 29 -

that the public knows the government's priorities and can holdthe government accountable
for achieving its stated goals. To effectively monitor the government's actions, it is
necessarythat the Caretaker Governmentpublishtimely revenue statements. As a result of
the recent political turmoil, the PA did not produce a 2006 budget and only producedthe
2007 budget at the end of the year. However, the Caretaker Government has publishedthe
2008 budget and is also producing monthly reports. Going forward, the Government must
improve its budgetingprocess includingdevelopingcombinedpresentation of recurrent and
developmentbudgetsfor all line ministriesanddevelopinga planto transfer responsibilityof
the developmentbudgetfrom the MinistryofPlanningto the MOF.

Prior Action 7:     Passing of amendments to the Basic Law (Law No. 7 of 1998 on Budget and
Financial Matters) establishing an `(Accountant General Department" (General Accounting
Department) in the Ministry of Finance.

79.     Most of the PA's accountingactivitieswere locatedinGaza andthey were not unified
under one office. The PA has recently establisheda GeneralAccounting Department inthe
West Bank that will oversee all accounting activities for the PA. This is the first step in
creating systems for commitment controls, annual cash plans, budget statements and other
basic accounting activities. The new department will allow the PA to truly institute a CTA
andprovidebetter accounting

Prior Action 8: Launch of a new computerizedaccountingsystem in the MOF.

80.     The PA has committed to improving its budgeting system and institutinga medium
term expenditure framework. It also plans to improve accounting systems that will allow a
decentralizedsystemof budget executionthroughout the government. The first step has been
to develop a computerized accounting system and deploying it in the MOF to enable better
commitment control and cash flow management and allow decentralized budget execution
across ministries. This system has been locally developed and i s so far only active in the
MOF. A recent review by IMF PFM experts concluded that the system works well and
meets the current needs of the PA; however, it must be documentedbefore it can be more
widely used. The next steps are to prepare manuals for the system and then roll it out to the
rest of the line ministries, starting with the Ministries of Health, and Education. Once the
automated system is in place, the PA can push forward with the PFM improvements
describedinthe PRDP andthe attachedpolicymatrix.


                        VI.     OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS

81.    A major focus ofthe PA's planis to control growthinthe governmentwork force and
collect utility bills. Both of these have the possibility of negatively impacting the most
vulnerable partsof society. A large share ofthe Palestinianpopulationdependson the wages

                                              - 30 -

of public employees. The dependency rate is estimated to be about 8 for each public
employee and there are currently about 150,000 employees. Consequently, if the private
sector remains stagnant, capping public employment could lead to increased poverty rates.
The economic crisis has left many households in a position where they cannot pay their
utility bills. As noted above, over halfthe Gaza households and nearly a quarter of the West
Bank households are in poverty. Thus, increasing collection rates must be done carefully to
not cause undue hardships.

82.     The PA recognizes these risks, and as they pursue the PRDP goals, they will make
protecting vulnerable groups and ensuring that there are no disparate impacts by gender top
priorities. Consequently, the PRDP DPG also makes such social protection one of its pillars.
The PRDP DPG takes an integrative approach, where the actions it supports are
complementary with other Bank projects and PA programs such as the SSNRP and the
EUMP.

83.     To ensure the protection of the most vulnerable households, which are often those
headed by women, the PRDP DPG is supporting the rapid expansion of the targeting data
base by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Recently, the Ministry has verified the status of
nearly 4,500 households and plans to add an additional 10,000 every quarter. This will help
ensure that aid i s directed to the most vulnerable households and those that might suffer the
most from any negative impacts of the PRDP. As the MOSA builds the database, they will
specifically target the households of the PA employees who the Caretaker Government
dismissedbecause they had beenhiredillegally. This will ensure that their families have not
become destitute as a result of their dismissal. An accurate database will also allow the PA to
provide assistance to reduce any gender disparities since female headedhouseholds appear to
be one of the most vulnerable population groups. The PRDP DPG is supporting the
transformation of the SSNRP into a PA administered cash assistance program that would
leverage funds from other donors. Eligible households will be selected in a transparent
manner using the PA's poverty targeting database, which uses proxy poverty variables to
select the households. The PA i s currently making payments to about 2,100 households. By
the end of May 2008, over 4,000 households selected using the poverty targeting database
will be receiving cash assistance.

84.     Efforts to collect electricity bills could negatively impact the most vulnerable groups.
However, the PA, with Bank support, is working to mitigate this risk. The pre-paid meters
are being installed inthe more affluent areas first and no householdswill be disconnectedfor
non-payment. The Bank's team working on the power sector is assisting the PA to develop a
pricingpolicy and methods of collection that will allow the poorest consumers to still obtain
electricity while increasing collection from those more able to pay. Among other things, they
are considering a life line tariff where the minimum amount of electricity required by a
household is provided at a minimal rate. Inthe long run, as collection efforts increase, pre-
paid meters may benefit the poor. In many countries, the poorest households cannot afford

                                           -31 -


service on credit and the introduction of pre-paid meters actually increases access to
electricity.

85.     Going forward, the PRDP DPG is supporting the PA's effort to develop a Social
Protection Strategy. This strategy will guide the Social Protection and Reform Integration
Program, which is supposed to coordinate all social protection initiatives. The program will
set explicit quality and service standards for both governmental and non-governmental
providers and ensure uniform payment modalities and amounts. The Bank social protection
team i s working closely with the PA on this effort. Assessing the impact of PA programs
requires good data on poverty levels. The targeting database, which uses 42 proxy variables
to measure consumption, is one source. But the PA needs the ability to asses overall poverty
trends throughout WBG. Currently, the PCBS is conducting the Palestinian Expenditure and
Consumption Survey (PECS). This survey provides an excellent source of information on
household poverty including by gender. The Bank i s seeking donor support to expand the
PECS to increase its reliability and accuracy. This will allow it to be used to monitor
whether the PRDP actions are having a negative impact on poverty and to target the social
safety net to mitigate any such poverty increases.

IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION

86.     As discussed above, the PA has asked the Bank and IMF to jointly monitor progress
on the PRDP's goals as described in the attached policy matrix. The PA will produce
quarterly reports, which the Bank and IMF will review. The Bank will focus on progress on
structural reforms while the IMF's review will cover fiscal and PFM issues. Inthe previous
budget support operation in WBG, monitoring proved to be a major challenge. Many of the
benchmarkshad beendevelopedwithout input from the PA line ministriesandthe Bank team
was located in Washington. Inthe proposed PRDP DPG, the actions by which progress is
measured have been taken directly from the PRDP, which was developed after wide
consultation throughout the PA and among other stake holders. The measuresthat have been
agreed to reflect what all parties not only think are important but also achievable and can be
monitored.

87.     The Bank team managing the PRDP DPG and the PRDP-TF will be located in WBG
and will thus be able to have daily contact with their PA counterparts. The Bank will soon
recruit a Governance Advisor who i s a PFM expert to be resident in the Jerusalem office
along with the Country Economist and others working on the project. The main ministry
responsible for implementing the reforms supported by the PRDP DPG i s the MOF, which
the Bank already has a strong relationship with. The PFM expert will work closely with the
IMF missionto bothprovide assistance to the MOF and monitor progress on budget related
andPFM issues.

88.    The Ministry of Social Affairs must report on its achievements in building the social
safety net as a part of the SSNRP and the Bank team managing that project will closely

                                            - 32 -

monitor these activities. For the collection o f utility fees, data must be collected from the
regional distribution companies and the Palestinian Energy Authority. The Bank's power
team will be working closely with these groups as part o f the EUMP and will thus be able to
collect the requireddata and assess progress. The combination o f close cooperation with the
IMF and other donors, the leveraging of other projects and careful consultation in the
preparatory phase across the entire PA should eliminate many o f the difficulties monitoring
progress encountered inthe previous budget operation.




                      Actions                                    How monitored

  ImprovingFiscalPosition
  Controlof Wage Bill                             IMF andBank PFMexpert workingwith MOF
  ReductioninNet Lending                          IMF and Bank PFMexpert workingwith MOF
  Increase inutility collectionratesand           Bankpower teamworking with Palestinian
  commercializationof electricitydistribution     EnergyAuthority as a part ofthe EUMP
  Social Safety Net issues                        Bank HDteam workingwith the Ministryof
                                                  Social Affairs as they implementthe SSNRP
  MunicipalFinance                                Bankteam workingonthe MDLF will monitor
                                                  implementationofthe financial information
                                                  systems.
  ImprovingPublic FinancialManagement           I IMF and Bank PFM expert workingwith MOF



FIDUCIARYASPECTS

PublicFinancialManagementSystem

89.     According to the last CFAA conducted in 2004 the PalestinianPFM system i s judged
to be adequate insofar as the Bank's criteria and standards for approval o f a general budget
support operations are concerned. The CFAA has also concluded that the fiduciary risk level
in the Palestinian PFM system was significant due to weaknesses in the PFM systems.
Recent IMF reports state that the PA's PFM system has returnedto the level that it was in
prior to the most recent election and cut-off indirect aid.

90.     The CFAA and later follow-ups (by the Bank and other donors) reported major
improvements in the PFM systems o f WBG. Notable improvements in PFM include the
following:

       (i)     Launch o f the new accounting system that will help consolidate budget
                implementation process, strengthen payment controls and improve fiscal
               reporting.

       (ii)    All PA revenues are now paidinto the CTA.

                                          - 33 -

               Anorderly systemofbudgetary appropriation is now inforce.

               MOF is exercising firm control over budget expenditures, has imposed strict
               limits on non-wage expenditures and makes continuous ad hoc adjustments,
               with funds often being released by MOF on a daily basis.

               The MOF has initiated a program to place financial controllers in each
               ministry.

               In response to the weakness in the external auditing function, MOF has
               launched a program to develop an ex post internal audit department in MOF.
               This program should be accelerated and given strong external technical
               support.

               Control over the civil service payroll has improved significantly. MOF has
              taken charge of the central payroll system from the GeneralPersonnel Council
               (GPC, the PA's central personnel agency), and is now ina position to monitor
               new recruitmentand pay all public sector salaries, and thereby to contain civil
               service hiring.

               System of direct salary deposit: The salaries of the PA's civil and security
               servants have all been paid through direct deposit into personal employee
              bank accounts.

              The establishment of the Palestine Investment Fund (PIF) has brought all PA
              equity holdings, including virtually all state-ownedenterprises (SOEs), within
              a centralized and commercially-oriented management framework. PIF has
              annually been publishing its annual report and audited financial statements
              (for 2003 and after), andthese are available on its website.

91.    However, muchmore remains to be done to further consolidate progress and address
the challengesbefore the PFM systems due to the lack of adequate public aggregate financial
statements, inadequate external and internal auditing, and underdeveloped oversight role of
the PLC. A program andtimetable for improvingPalestinianPFM includes:

    0  Complete the transformation of line ministry and agency bank accounts into zero-
      balance accounts. This is an important feasible step inthe immediate short term.

      Better integration of donor programming into the annual development budget,
      including donors channeling their funds through the CTA unless there are good
      reasons to the contrary, will require strong PA leadership and a muchenhanced level
      of effort by donors to harmonize their planning, disbursement and procurement
      procedures with those of the PA. A clear action plan with commitments by all parties
      should be developed by the Ministries of Planning and Finance as part of the ongoing
      effort to develop amedium-term planning process.

                                         - 34 -


    0  Internal audit developmenti s already underway, but it will take approximately twelve
       months before an adequate internal audit system begins to operate effectively and to
       show results.

    0  External audit development goes beyond the passage of an adequate new law.
       Developingthe capacity of the new external audit institution to a satisfactory level
       will require2-3 years ofwell-monitoredcapacity development.

    0  Improved cash management and forecasting is difficult to envisage under current
       emergency conditions, but should be a point of focus once there is a returnto more
       "normal" conditions.

92.    It should be noted that these measures have all been identified by the PA itself as
PFMreformobjectivesinthe PRDPand are beingsupportedby this proposedPRDPDPG.

DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING

Development Policy Grant -PRDP DPG:

93.    The Bank would sign a Grant Agreement with the PLO for the benefit of the PA,
which would includethe prior actions listedinthe attachedpolicy matrix for tranche release.

94.    The PRDP DPGis a single tranche operation. The amount of the PRDP DPG will be
disbursed in one tranche comprising the full amount of the grant, against satisfactory
completionofthe prior actions.

95.    The Bank would disburse funds into a US Dollar or GBP British Pound Designated
Account # 1 (only for PRDP DPG grant) (Designated Account (1)) maintained under the
CTA of the MOF. As the PalestinianMonetary Authority does not yet function as a full-
fledged central bank, the Designated Account would be held with a commercial bank, as is
currently the case with the CTA. The MOF would convert the US Dollars into New Israeli
Shekels (NIS) at the going exchange rate and transfer them to the MOF treasury account
when neededto cover budgetary financingneeds.


                  - - -
                 Diagram 1: flow of funds arrangementsfor PRDP DPG:
                                                                           I
                                                                               Budget
   WorldBank                  MOF                 MOFTreasury                Financing
      -DPG                  Designated             Account- NIS
                          Account (1)for
                          DPG-Foreign                 Account                -Activities
                                                                               Reform
                                                                                Plan

                                          - 35 -

Multi Donor Trust Fund -PRDP-TF:

                   Diagram 2: flow of funds arrangementsfor PRDP-TF:




                                                                 -
     World                 MOF                                             Budget
    Bank-      - -      Designated              MOFTreasury              Financing
  PRDP-TF             Account # 2 for           Account -NIS
                        PRDP-TF-                    Account              -Activities
                                                                            Reform
                         Foreign                                             Plan



96.    The Bank has signed standardadministrationagreements with contributingdonors to
the PRDP-TFandwill do so with future donors.This agreementdescribesfiduciary oversight
measures,trust fund governancearrangementsandtranche payments.

97.    The grant agreementbetweenthe Bank as administrator andPA as recipienthas been
signed on April 11, 2008, and the first tranche in the amount of about US$84 million was
releasedon April 22, 2008, basedon similar prior actions as the PRDP DPG. Futurereleases
will be made based upon the IMF and Bank reviews of the PA's progress towards the
PRDP's reform goals as set out in the attached policy matrix. Releases will be made every
calendar quarter basedupon a review of reformprogress by the Bank and IMF. They may
also be made in the case of an extraordinary situation when the PLO makes a request in
writing andthe Bank team is of the opinionthat an additionalrelease isjustified. Inthis case
the Bankteammust still verify that reformprogress.

98.    The Bank receives the other donors' funds into the PRDP-TF administered by the
Bank. The Bank would disburse funds into a US Dollar or GBP British Pound Designated
Account (2) (only for the PRDP-TF) maintained under the CTA of the MOF. Other
arrangementsare the same as mentionedabovefor the PRDP DPG.

Auditing

99.    As discussed before, the 2004 CFAA concluded that the fiduciary risk level in the
PalestinianPFM system was significant. While, there has beenprogress since then, the risk
remains significant. Accordingly, an independent external auditor acceptable to the Bank
will performannual audits of boththe PRDP DPG and PRDP-TFdesignatedaccounts at the
MOF.The audits will comply with international standardsandbe completedandsubmittedto
the Bank (i)inthe case ofthe PRDPDPG, within six months from the release of the single

                                           - 36 -

tranche while (ii) the case of the PRDP-TF within six months of the end of each calendar
                    in
year or six months from the date of the last tranche whichever is closer. These audits would
be financed under the PRDP-TF inthe case of the PRDP-TF andby the PA inthe case of the
PRDP DPG. The audit would cover and ensure the following:

         Validate and certify the transfer and deposit transactions relating to the grant and
         confirmed by PA MOF mentioned above.
         Verify the extent to which the Bank's requirements under the grant agreement are
         beingmet, and whether the PA's procedures are adequate to achieve this result.
         No funds are kept in or paid into the relevant Designated Account other than those
         disbursedby the Bank for this particular operation;
     0   All withdrawals from the relevant Designated Account for payments are for
         legitimate budgetary purposes, following procedures establishedby the P A's MOF;
         The MOF follows adequate disbursement procedures as per PNA and governmental
         standards including accuracy of exchange rate conversion.

ENVIRONMENTALASPECTS

100.    The PRDP DPG operation will not have significant effects on the country's
environment, forests and other natural resources. The environmental and natural resource
implications are driven to a large extent by the nature of an operation. In the proposed
operation, none of the prior actions as listed in the policy matrix will have environmental
impacts or risks. Additionally, the proposed PRDP DPG does not have any investment
lending subcomponent involvingphysicalinvestment. None of the Bank's safeguardpolicies
are triggered by the proposedPRDP DPG.

RISKS AND RISKMITIGATION

ThePRDP s success depends onparallel actions by the PA, GOIand the donor community.

101.    The PRDP calls for the PA to make move towards fiscal stability, given the expected
level of external support by 2010. However, it will take many years for the PA to achieve
fiscal sustainability and that will only be possible if there i s a political settlement. To
maintain the support it needs the PA must make rapid and steady progress on the announced
reforms. They are determinedto take politically difficult actions, including holding the line
on the public sector work force, freezing salaries, collecting utility bills and implementing
security sector reform. The PA i s committed to increasing its transparency and improving
public financial management, and the Prime Minister and MOF have already taken a number
of steps to show their commitment. However, these reforms require skilled personnel that
are in short supply. The most demanding task facing the PA i s to control the security
environment. Ifthe PA is not able to begin addressing Israel's security concerns they are
unlikely to elicit the responseneeded from the GOI.

                                             - 37 -

 102.    The PA will not be able to meet its fiscal goals without substantial private sector
growth, which will provide thejobs neededby the expandingpopulation andthe tax revenues
required to fund government services. However, private sector activity is dependent on the
GO1 relaxing its closure regime and allowing Palestinian enterprises reliable access to
markets. Under current conditions, sustained private sector growth i s not possible no matter
how much external assistance is provided. At the Annapolis conference inNovember 2007,
the GO1 expressed its willingness to reduce movement and access restrictions and in late
March they announced the removal of 50 checkpoints or barriers. As the peace process
continues, it is hoped that this trend will continue and that the Palestinian population will
gain more freedom of movement.

 103.    Donor support is the third determinant of the PRDP's success. The PRDP assumes
high and sustaineddonor assistance throughout the plan's life. The PA is striving to improve
its fiscal position, but for the foreseeable future they will remain dependent upon high levels
of aid. Specifically, they will require large amounts of untiedbudget support that will allow
them to pay wages and the other basic operational costs. Without such support the PA will
not be able to deliver basic services let along achieve the popular support required to
undertake the most politically difficult actions.

104.     The PRDP was formulated on the optimistic assumptions that over the next three
years growth would average 5 percent and aid would reach over US$2 billion a year mostly
for recurrent costs. But ifthere is little private sector growth or ifthe requireddonor support
does not materialize, these targets will not be met. The PA, with support from the IMF, will
review revenue and expenditures quarterly and adjust the budget as needed. However, the
PA has little room left to cut the budget quickly, so ifrevenue is below expectations it will be
difficult for them to avoid accumulating large arrears, which wouldjeopardize growth.

105.     The issue of movement and access is fundamentally apolitical issue that the Bank has
little influence over. However, the Bank has taken a number of steps to mitigate the risks
associated with the donors not providing enough timely support or the PA not following
through with its reform plan. These actions include:

         The Bank and IMF have beenjointly working to convince donors to convert project
         pledges into budget support;

     0   The Bank has worked with the PA to place some categories of public expenditures
         into projects such as putting social safety net payments into the Social Safety Net
         Reform Project. This will help attract donor project funding for recurrent public
         expenditures within the framework of a project;
        The PRDP-TF will help close the financing gap by providing donors a convenient
        mechanism to provide such untied budget support where they can be assured that
        their funds will be closely monitored. The PRDP DPG, risking the Bank's own

                                            - 38 -

         money, signals the Bank's trust in the PA's financial controls and will also increase
         donor willingness to participate;

         The quarterly monitoring by the IMF and Bank will quickly detect ifthe reforms are
         off track or if funds are being improperly allocated. This frequent monitoring will
         provide donors comfort to increasetheir disbursement anduse the CTA;

    0    The Bank has established a web site to keep donors, NGOs and the public appraised
         of reform progress and has a consultant dedicated to providing communications and
         outreachto all stake holders.

    0    Finally, the Bank and the IMF are providing significant technical assistance to help
         the PA implement its planned reforms. The IMF is active inthe PFM areas while the
         Bank is providing assistance in a wide variety of areas including: Telecoms, power
         sector, payments system, municipalfinance and social sectors. As mentioned above,
         the Bank is increasing its field-basedstaff to improve its monitoring and delivery of
         assistance.

106.     WBG is an unstable and high risk environment. But this country risk affects all
projects in the portfolio and is not unique to the proposed PRDP DPG. Because the PRDP
DPG provides untied budget support there i s a risk, not associated with other projects, that
the funds could be used for purposesthey are not intendedfor. However, this is significantly
reducedby the quarterly monitoring and the continuous policy dialogue betweenthe PA, the
Bank and the IMF. Despite the risks this is a high value operation that the Bank should
support. The Caretaker Government is deeply committed to reform and has been able to
galvanize international support. The GO1has expressed its willingness to consider reducing
the movement andaccess constraints withinthe parameters of their security requirementsand
there i s hope that the peace process may move forward. These factors create an important
opportunity for the Bank to make progress on its agenda in WBG. Supporting the Caretaker
Government and its reform program will help restore the PA's institutions and put it back on
the path to creating a future Palestinian State. Failure to support the PA at this time could
risk the collapse of already fragile institutions that are emerging after two years of
international sanctions.

                             - 39 -

  ANNEX 1:LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY




                      Pabtinirn NationalAuthodty
                       Oflice ofthe Prime Minister


                                                           9 March 2@8



Mr.RohertZorlfick
Ptesidcnt
WorldBank&up
Washington, D.C.
Unit& Stater ofAmerica




                                                    Sincerely,


                                                  /1JLh--J--%.
                                                     SaJam Fayyad
                                                     PrimeMinister

                                       - 40 -




                               PaleetimianNationalAuthority
                                O I c e af the PrimeMinister



                                                                                  9 Marchtooll


Mr.Robert ki. ZwIIkk
President
InternationalDovetopent kmclrrrion
1818HStreet, N.W.
Wwhiagbn, D.C. 2043.3
                           LETTER OFDEVELOPMENT mucy

Dear Mr.Zoellick,

I.       In December 2W7, we puhlkhett the Palestinian Refwni and Lkwlopment Phn. This
document lays out our vision of an independent Palestinian state. It highlights stepv w haw
rlmdy taken to restoregood govsrnanceand the rule of law Iothe W M Banh s t e p we believe
                                                                              -
demonstrateour commitment to realizing this vision.. Whili,t the stalled peace pracess and \he
tighteninggrip of thc occupation hwe playeda pwcrful role in shapingtvcnt\. we acknowkdge
we had given insufficknt attention to 4ioricomings in govcrnance. law and order, and bahk
service delivery. Wc are now absnluicly determined to rehuitd the trust of air c i t i x w and our
internationalpartfx'n.inthe PaleulinkinNationalAuthority hy etnhjrking oniichalknging reform
a ddevelopmentagenda for stabiliratbnandrecovery.

2,       We are not compkccn! atxnir the xate of the ta+k ahead. Rogrw mlnt be ma& tn
upgrade all Palestinian inutiutima of government. We intend to crcate a sewre and stable
internal environment in which social and wonomic dcvclopment cantake place. and in which thL'
institutional infmtructurc of a Palestinian state can develop and thrive. This niii'it go ltnnd in
hand with suitainrd and swiats palilical dialogtic, il~lcowrete steps and commitments by all
pan& towards a lmling pm:.Wc are committedto bringing safety and srxurity to ihe West
Bank and Gaw. Our immedurie gml is to rdum io t k ttm.5 quo onre hefore the Halation of
conflict in Septemher ZOO0 by resuming fult swufily cnnrrol in Area A. Our ultimv goal i\ to
awn= full authority and rmpnsihrlity for security within and at the h d a \ of the f ~ u r c
Palestinionhiate.

1.       LtaekpwuMf

3.       Throughout the posi-Chktpcrrod,the umsrbie pclliticai tnvironmcnt hw underminedOW
rawcity to devclop and sustain cffmive goverrunmt irbiitutianr and policies. The embargo on
                  lance in 2Qo6 and early 2007 ctsntributed to the reversal nf prcqresb that had
hen mdc in reforming the PNA. The rnsuing fi.waI crisiv shatttrcd mir citimw' and publlc
servants' confidencein thc PNA.The PRDPdocumenix i s out air broadpriorities for improving
governanceinthis challenging contat. It sets out how wc will reformthe scetrrity sector and    K-
~mablisht k rule of krw, improve   IK'CC-S?;io jwke, ntovc toward a nmre ficcillly )rUstiiimhle

                                                1

                                             -41 -


position, improve our nianagcrnent of public finances, strengthen the capacity of tk public
sector, nnd improvelclcaf governance,

4.       We are aware that the PNA's fiscal policy hw h e n problematic in the pas1and that wc
must act fa>( to awn a fiscal crisiu. We have enitrarkcd on a series of fiscal refornic to put
mirseIve* on a path ta financial stabtlity - a path that will crmte s p c e for irxxt.;ising capital
i n v e r , ~ anddcvelapmentexpenditure.We anticipatethat t h e reformswill help USreduce the
              ~ ~ n ~
current budget deficit by 1I.3% of CUPover the next thrre years, retumtng it to ttw 2(KH Icvc4.
Our itkaxxconamic and rkal forecasts assunw rmim impmvemntr in the ptitical rmf
security envirotrmcnt, yielding a gradmi redminn in movement and accms rcmiction?*,and a
gradual incraw in trade and private wtctor confideax This is our b;lseline scemrio. If a
camhimtion of pditical progressand an impowd .securityenvironment accelewter thc liftingof
the occupation regime beyond c u m 1 expectation% t k kvel of public investment and private
.sector activity could increase m e s i g n i ~ ~ ~ibwever, if the mcupation rcginr remains,
                                                   n ~ l y ~
unchnged, the econoniic outlook is cxtrenwly pour. It would nukc it very difkuli to inma*
public investmentand to finance a substantiverwonslructioneffort. Any reluctanceon the donor
side to finance the budget deficit would lead to a deepening fiscal     crihiq that  would almost
certainly take the PNA to the point of financial and institutionalcollaphe 11 would aIw lead lo
ribing uneniptoynmt, increasing puvercy, &lining healthand education indicators,, and further,
perhnps inevemible, degradationof the private x w ~ ~ .

5.       Our fmcaMs a n ksed rnthe as.urmprirrn that dorms will providesuhuantial Icvcl* of
padictahlc aid over the next thrra. yeaw tct support the recurrent budget and public investment
program, ln 2008 we need f1.36t million to finance wr recurrent costs and $427 million to
finance development invemnma. These anxnims are large hut they are, we believe. the minimum
wc need to imfrlunlent our reform and development            and begin serious ~              ~for    ~   r   a
statehood, Wc had appealed to dome to provide this          ance as direct. un-earmarkedbudget
support tttrougti the single tremury account Thir, would give us control over the targeting and
timing of disbursements and enable us to execute our reform and develqnwnl plan more
eftectively. However, for those donor$ unwilling lo contribute directly to the single treasury
account, we have asked the Wurld Bank to exiahlibh an un-earmarked. multi-dona trust fund
metchanbm,

ti.      The RetomPlan


Fimrt ~~~~~t~
6.       The PakbtinianNational Authority i+, committed to thew refurms and we understandthe
need to mke rapid progress in order regain thc cortfkknce of the Paleslinianpeople and cat
intcrmtimt supporters. Two a m %xtand OUK as king particularly important for the r d r m
agenda fiscal hustaimbility and impruved accountabilityand transparency CrF the Gcrvmmnt
hudget. Withaut steady and significnnt pmgrcs!, in thrse areas. we can not expcct the required
high level of wupport from our friends and ~uppmcrs.

7.       Fiwai Kefon71: Political instability and insecurity have created a htilte of almost
permnnent socio-economic distress in the occupied territory. In the period\ of greatesi imtability.
puhlic expenditurehrts playeda nlnjor role in mintainingconsumption in a fragileeconomy, and
averting a complete hrwkdown in law rml wder. In the face of a growing pcrpuliitiao. n rising
labor force and n contracting privaie sectof, public sector cmploymnt has served as a safety
valve tu relieve escaiatinff uixmployrrwt8. Innf~wd,in ihc absence ctf Ifree and export-oriented
private wetor, thc Palestinian puhlic wtw and donars h v c become tk main 4ourct: of
emplaynxnt and personalincome.



                                               2

                                                 - 42 -


8,      Ovcr tim, however, rising pobltc expenditure has created slrtrctural fiscai problems
which arr compromising our ability to govern effectively, Rapid growth in the wage hill has
crowded out mn-salary expenditure and the hudget deficit has rim sharply. Canscquently, we
futse become increasingly &pendent on international aid to fund &wlq~nt?ntexpenditure, and
cvcn the operating e       ~     ~ requiredd to deliver hasic services. Also, a liqwdtty crisk,
                                       ~          ~    ~     u    ~
precipitated hy economic sanctions and institutional ~            ~    ~ during ~
                                                                           a    2Ooh.~ I d~to the
                                                                                                o  n
accumulationof a large stock of a m n n dw io public sector empfoyres( i.c.. unpaidsalaries) and
to private xwtor suppliers The accumulntion of thmc arrears, which rrached R p a k of S 1.3
billion during 2007. has shaken the confidence of the people and nutrkets in our long-term
rtnancial b4ihirity.

9.      During the xeccntd half of 2007 we have launched a series of policy actions 10 address
ttme fiscal problems:

   i.   Wugc hill redrtrtirm   -   Lirtk more than two yam ago, the nui&er of plthlic sector
        empiayes s t d at just under 137,W and, during 2007, reacheda peak r>T 189.aOCI. We
        have i m p l e ~ i ~ ~ eholdplan to reduce this to 130.000. Thi%has been
                             R   d                                                     chmtighthe
        eliminationfrom the payroll of cmplc~yceswho were not legdly appointed leadingto an
        8% duction of the wage bill in NIS terms. Going forward, wc are committed to             8
        ~           o palicy to~ emure lfuct the previuw i f ~~ ~ ~ nhiring practice are not
                                           a           ~                    s~ ~ b l ~~
        rrpc"f&d. The contalnnlenr plicy is premised an a baelinc?crnploymenr figure of
        I.Sc),W, a d e s i levelofncccs;sarymruitrwnt-particularly inthe Educationand
                   with
        HeztIlhscct~m to meet thebasicvervice needsof a populationgrowingat appraximtely
                       -
        4 2 per year. Additional recruitment will he suhjcct to a firm upper limrt of 3.000 p r
        ycar. Also, in order to consmin rail wage bill growth, there will be no generwl public
        alary increases over the next Ihrr?ttyears. A$ a result. the wage bill is projwtrd ta
        decmsc from 27% of GDP to a h t 22% by 2010, a level similar to sfxw. Tn rchirvc
        these goal%we will implemnl modanimd hunlan resource\ nmnagement \ystems and
        pttlcedures, that emphasize merit findperfornwmnx the basis for hiringand promotion.

  ii. Net icncling    - The cost uf sukidizing citizens' c ~ ~ u ~ ~d~energy nand ut
                                                                                t i o
        represeasa s i g n ~ dram on~g o v m m t fintlnchi m r c c s , This is primrily driven
                                   ~ ~ a
        hy the 'net lending' phenomenon in [he electricity settor which arises due tn the mn-
        collection (by municipalities and other cleczrkity service providers) of ootwumers'
        clwtrkity bills. This forces thc central government to fund payments la the Israel
        Eicrtriciy Company (IEC) far bulk purchases of clwirkity in order to avoid service
        disruption. The co91 of net kencling accekratcd rapidly in 2006. It i%currently
        accumulatingat EI rateof approximtrly$50 miflicmper nmlhand cxpecltd ta reach n
                                                                              IS
        told crf !$ 51I million for the yar 2007. The Ministry of Finance i* working with local
        government officials to implement 8 plan that will progmssively reduce net lending
        rlgnificanrly from 10.6% of GDP in 2007 to 7.8% of GDP in 2010 (mmhinp 9.0% and
        8.39 in 2008 and 2009 mpeetiwly). This plan. which inompatcs enfrrrcenmt
        msures wctt as B rquirrmenz for citizensto prwtti a 'cu.trificas of paymmt' of utility
        biils In or&r to receive key government bwvicm, will pny~rcssivelyking an end 10 the
        non-paynlcntof electricity hills hy all cotx~umrs, These regulations will, however, be
        accompanied by provisions IO emure continued access to utilities services for those
        wffuring extreme poverty.            'poorest af tk poor' wit1 ha idunlified rhrough an
        objective and tramsparent              i     n      ~By the Ministry~of Social Affair%~
                                                                    l   ~             ~      ~
        whcrehy a specific 'lifeline'         f clectriclty wiit he pvirkvl to ensure thai porw and
        vulnerable families are not deprivedof access, Wc will also reformthe soctal safety net
        system by estahlinking8 targeting datahnsc lo cnsure that cash paynlentsifre tnrgctcd at
        the t w t iiwdy. Beyand this, ulility provision will be basedon wonomic principb and
        will hc moving tawrrd a          coct-rcrovcry ha&. I t should be noted that, under the
       cclrrcnt ~       i      ~ the u to reduce na lending cannot he,gmplem=nteciin Gam.
                                              ~       ~       ~      ~

                                                - 43 -


        Accordingly. whilst implcmcntarinn of the plan is expected 10 yield a ~ ~ ~ a n ~ i u i
        reduclian in net lending for electricity coatumptian in the West Bank (approxinertcly
        70% by 20101, these saving9 are partially offset by projected inoreases in net lending
        relardto growth ineltmricity and water consumptioninGam. and higheroil prices,
  ,..
  Itl.  TNV~ ~ ~ ~ i t i refiwm~ ~ DapLeian~ atready strong revenue pwformance. wt will
                              i . ~     -  ~ J /     ~
        implementadmini,mativr reformdirectedat funher increwin8 the cdlection of tax and
        custtom revenues. These will include a varhy of a d m i n i ~ ~ land~technical measureti,
                                                                           i v
        including the creation of a `Large Taxpayer`s OffKe', focused in$pectim$on fa\r-
        growing businesses with high cash incomes, strengthened supervision at crossing\,
        automationof administrativeprocedures. undspecializedtraining.

  iv.   Paymerit t$urream    -We    intendto repay a substantialprqmrlionof the arrears due to the
        private s ~ t o r govemmnt pniion scht?clmzs and povcrnrmiir emplayees by thc end of
                          .
        2010,This will helpjump start nnwcmmir recovery hy injecting approximately $ J[X)
        million into the ecmomy during t k next three years, It will also restore Icvclti of
        confidenceinthe PNA and thedomhtic mrka place.

IO.     Municipnl FinanceReform: Convolling the PA budget require itdons to cmure fiscal
sustainability of Incat governments. As wl lending is reduced. lacat governmentsmust be ableto
develop altcrrrative sources of revenue 10 fund their services, Conwquently the `Accountahle
Local Government' (ALG) program will: introduce new legislation to clarify and regulate Lhc
relationshipbetweencentratand local government: establisha policy fratncwork which promtcs
f*mI autonomy and diqipline at tht? locat level, and build the opruthwl, administrative and
finoncia1 ~           ~ cazl;icity gsf lacat g e ~    ~bodies, The~~n
                                                        ~ r      ~          ~ uDevelopment and~
                                                                                        ~              ~   ~   l
LendingFundIMDLF)is expeczedto hethe primary source of ~ ~ e l ~ ~ n ~ - l ~ n ~ e ~ a
municipalities, andto supportmsent                                   ~~~c~~       refarlrn. Sevrrril
donors have already programmedsi                                    W, and arc likelyto incrmxw!
their assistance over the three-year                                A's preferred mechanism for
channeling reformand devclopten                                      Ianddi4wsement.sma hr:
coordinatedwith the MinistryofFinance,

1 I.    During ,W8, we will launcha thorough institutionalreview dthc pensionsystem. with a
view 10 cciabfishing appropriate a ~ n ~ and plamnfor ~ ~
                                                   e ~          reforms t h r wit1 emure its fiscal
su.ctainability.whih maintaininga m.sanable level of.sacialpriminnfor ptnkmcn.

Accuun#bUity and tramparemy
12.     Accountability and transparency &recore guiding principles informing our apprtmh to
titrengthcninp public inctltutions. Substantial progress has already k n made in restoring
accountability and transparencyto public fimncial management through reconslituting(tic singlu
treasurysecount. prepiringbudgetsfar 2007 and2008. and preparingthe PalestinianReformand
D~&opmtrtlPkn2008- 10.

13.     With cffcct from March 2Cx38. an Accountant Cierreml will be appctiaed to supervise
treasury, cash and ckht mnagemcnt, hudgei execution pyrdl. and accounting a d fimncitil
reporting. We cornniit io i ~ ~ ~ ( u ~ ~aO n a l ~ ~m~~~ xg ~ n Fnmewwk system for
                                                MediumT                      ~ ~ u ~ e
developing he budget. Fw increasedtransparency we will emure that revenue and expmditure
statementsare puhlishcdmonthlyand that year endperformancereport\ are published ina timely
manner.

i4.     An u~~~~~ accounting system including carnmitmnts conrrol and cash flow
~ ~ ~ e f m ~n ii a wiflI also~be~implemented in early 2Wl. initially in the Ministriesof
                ~           ~      i        "
Educationand Healthltk mjcwspending ministries). The system which will also altow fos Imsr;


                                                4

                                                - 44 -

centralized budgct cxecutbn (and hence gram accountability]. will he rolled out io the
remining ministriesthrough 2008.

15.     We am coinmitted to building on these achievements in order lo deliver more rycn
government and grusier accountability to citizens. We are also conimitted to tfie yrirriple of
separation of powersand ssrengrtamedoversight of the executive hratrchby the legislatureand the
judiciary. In relation to the former, we bok forward to moving kyorid the current pofiricnl
deadlock andthe resumptionof normal f u ~ t i ~ofithe~PalesstinkinLegislativeCouncil. Whilst
                                                          n
the current situationckarly cunstrain~our ability to pass primary legislation. we believe that this
should not prevent us fromdeveloping new tcgisiatiun.

16.     The *Open and Accountable Government' (OAG) progrant will consist of three huh.
programs:
    *   Sysrm rmd prfwm re-m                  n#   - including cap&ciiy-huilding in implementing
         integned policy-making, PIbudgetingand accounting pracewes(fromthe Prim
        Ministet'%Offeethrcrughto lint mini?slrieandagencies). capacity-huildingfor the office
        of the Accoumnnl Gener31, impfernration of a government-wide accounting and
         financial ~           ~ i n f ~ ~~asysrcn and strengtheningof inlrmal ftnrlncnicontrol
                                                t i ~ ~            ~           1          ~         1
         functionn:

    * Bidling tffiecfiw oversigh!      insiiriipitms   including rapacity-hiilding for independent
        audit function?inntlthe PalestinianLegislativeCouncil secretariat; and,


17.     The Palestinian Authority cxprmsc, its full commitment to tk i ~ ~ ~ ~ nof tthea ~ i ~ n
program h c r i h d above along with the Palestinian Reform and Dcvelopmnt Program From
which it was derived. However, its ultimalc ~EUCCCSJdepends upon prallrlactionsby the &mor%
and tk Israclis. If the Israeli authorities do not relax mtrktion?,ami improve movement and
access, the privare sto or will not bc able KO&liver the growth neededto reachthe deficit targetsn
tikcwise. ifthe donors do not fully support the programor if the isracl tlws not regularlytransfer
cbr3nee tax revenues, the PHDP gaoh will not he athiruble,              The Palestinian National
AutlPoriry ~ ~ p r ~thejhelptand support the Warid Bank has cmisiently shown in our effclnf,
                           a      ~ ~
to build an j           ~ hktini;Hn State.
                                    n           ffence we re4um that the Wmkd Bank establish a
                                                 ~         ~
multi-&nr# t m t fund for budget sapport and lo provide a ~              v       ~Policy Grant of ~
                                                                                       l    ~        n  ~
Wmillion to a\dst cis as we pursuethe gals of fix u s ~ ~ i ~ ancf~increased~~~~~~1
                                                                        ~ i    i l y
transparencyand accwntnhility.

                                               -45 -


                                               ANNEX




The goal of the PRDP is to increasegovernment cfficirncy and put the PA ona pithtoward fiscal
sustaimhility, It aimto controltfz budget deficit by rcdtrcingnet lending and limiting the public
w a g bill. The current phn hrrs the following projccticm, whkh should not hc considered hard
t3rp;ers but gmls.

     0   P t y j t m d &line of budgddeficit' - Suhstantirl&dine over three ycarx (XXW: 23.8%
         of GDP, 2009: 20.5% of GDP, 20IO: 17.1% ofGDP).

     0   frojprted Net lending (21MM: USD466 midliw, 9.0%GDP. XXH: USD467 million.
                                 -
         8.3% GDP, 2010: US# 477 million,7.84GDP).

The World Bonk bcommittedtoassistingthePA inreaching its goalsof fisilal su,tainnbility and
increasedtransparency. To this end thr Bank is prrtparinga 5Jomp n l under thc proceduresof     P
Development Policy Grant (DPCf, which will go dircctty into the PA hudget. It is also
establishing a mutti donor trust fund(MDTF)to providcdim1budget supprt to the PA.

T k entire anmini of the D E and the first tranche of'thc MDTF will bc nlmsedowe it can be
~ ~ o n ~ thatrthc PA ~
                   [      D ~      t w 4 cLrtain prioractions that support the aclions and gmlu
expressed in the Dcvclopment Policy Letter urn by the PA to the World Bank.                Later
disburscmtr from the MDTF will tx: mndc after the Warid Bank and IMFcertify that t k PA i+,
making prngrcas in achieving the gmis laid out in r k Dcwlopmnl Policy Letter. The
DevelopmentPolicy Letter is ba.w$ directly on the PRDPand lists the goalc and action\ relatedIo
achieving fiwal sitstainability and improvinggovcmnml rritnyxwcncyand iiccountability.

To &&xminc! whaher to rchse thc fust tranche. and the DPG, the World Bank and PA mvIt
agree w1D muf prior actions [hiwill be mat by the PA by the end af M m h 2O(u3. Thr PA and
the World Bank and IMF must a b agree on criteria and indicators IO aw%s progau in
implementing the PRDP and achieving the goals in the Development Policy Letrer. The prior
actions and indicators of progrcss fall into two nwin arms: I) Efforts to control public
expcnditwesand 2) efforts to instituteimprovedfintlncial management. atitrolling expcndituras
will messitale reducing net Ictnding, whkh will in turn tcquire rcfwm in the clmfricity 'rp'ctur,
social d c t y net and the ~    n    ~finotmesystem. Belowlare suggwedpimactions far wlme
                                         c     ~   ~  ~
of the DPO and the first immk af the MDTEand indicatasto asms p g w s in meeting the
goals of the development policy Idtcr.

ContmliltqPublicExpenditure




                                                 6

                                          - 46 -




  Maintain a bmealine(7f 150,OfK)public wctcr employees with no inorethan3,(xK1 rccruih
  per ytaf primarily far Healthand Education(limits in2008: 1SO.ocJc) employees, 2 0 0 :
  Is 3 , memployees, 20IO: lS6,OOo employees).
  Ensurethat there are nogeneral p ~ h salary incrrlasesduring the next 3 years.
                                          k
m btablirha capableami independentrppainrments. prrrmotiomandnppcals systcrn for
  civil servants.




  Launchan instirurioml review ofthe pcncionsystem in20QH.




  * NEDCQ~             ~     ~     l    i    ~    ~       c    ~
  0   Publicly a m m e XSBllr HEROisP compny andworking ~ n ~ ~ ofthe n t l y   ~ ~

  * HEPCOhashcgiinissuingbilk10
      HebionMunicipaliry.

  ** Begininstallationof pre-paidmcqcrs. its customen

      Institute masure8 to ensure payment of utility trills by pllblicservantsand general
      public - "clefiificate of payment".




  0   Net tendingdeclines by approximatelyJ O I by 2010
  0            producetime houndaction plans io improvecollfcftons
  m   Ensurethat fIWC0and other utility distribution companiesarc operatingas
      independentcompanies that are collecting bills and makinganniial audiis public.
      Elcaricity DihlributionCompanies have time boundaction plans for Iransfcrof all
      EltxqricityIkprtments or Municipal Counuils. Village Councils and Refugee.Camps
  m   Theactionplansare king adheredto and nrtrnicipalities. rillngt.councils andrefuge
 *    camp efmricirydepartmentsarejainins the electrical disttihwrioncompanies
      Ensure1&line inutility a m r s from mtsnkiprlliaiesandutilities
      Steadily increw cdlection ofelectricity hiltsover t k comingthree yws
      Bcginconstructionof electric sub-iittttinnsundcr propaed Elwtric Utility
      Management Project ~EUMP),
      Inithie pmremcnt under EUMP




                                          7

                                                    - 47 -


     0    Establisha fiwd settlement system to balancepaymentsbetweenthL"PNA and local
         governments.




     0    DYVOIVGthe revenuecollectionauthority by the centralgovernmenton behalfor local
     *   governments, to the benefit of local govcrnmts.
         Establkha syxternto link MDFgrants in 2008 and2009 Lo performance largah,
          includingbank-" penaltiesand, insome casesoutright exclusion
         Develop a MunicipalFitlanceR           ~     ~Program T k~programincludesir system to ~
                                                            ~ .          ~       r          ~
         a ~ m municipalamtarsanda collectionprogramha*don munk@lilit?r' ability to my
                x




The goals underthe uxblMfeiy net are to ensurethat there arc provisionsplaceto ensure poor
burithoMscantinw IO haveace-          to electricity- UseMQSA'q targetingdatuhaw to .&xt
cligiblie houxhdds and mkesumtitlit the ektricity supply ro those househldr is n d
inlmupreddue LOtheir inabilityto p y their electricitybill.

Prior actions




                  Completepoverty rankingof 50,000poor hou6eholds. includingconducting
                  honre visits 10 confirminformationprovidcdinSSNRPapplications Enter

              * Provideregularb j - ~ ~cash l y
                  relevantdataenteredintop o ~ H targaingdata&
                                                     y               by end Decefnba2008.
                                                ~ ~asskiam paymentsthrwgh t k SSNRPto

              a          beginningof 2009 lhe PA bgina I prcxessaf mergingcm-goingcash
                        nceprogramsusingits fully operatitma1gaveny targetingdatabwseto
                  confirmhatseholticligihility: PA will cxplore options to institute uniform
                  pymnt mdalitk andRMOUR~S far all hencfiinry houwholdr,rcgardlm of
                  funding mrce




    0
    *    Appoint anAccountantGemralin March2008
         Institutiomliie the MTEFapproachandensure it is beinguxd hy m
         Prepareand pass a 2008 Bttdgct
         Publishmolnlhlyrevenueandexpenditurestatemcnis
    0    implementan upgradedaccountingsystemto enablebettercornmitniontcontrol andcash
         nt.tw management andallow lesscenrmft~edb.udpt%exsution in the M i n ~ ~ ofrHmltht i ~
         andEducation inearly 2008

                                                   8

                                         - 48 -


Criteriatoawes~     ~     ~     progrmx
                                ~      ~      e       .    ~     ~      ~      ~     r     ~   ~ i ~  ~ ~

       Praduce ycar dpesfomtxo reportsby cnd 2Wfi
       Producecomprchcnsivr,nqgular internalaudit rqmfts by cnd 2CN38,
       bgal mnrhrr!andorganizntiomlstructure of the MoFreflects intcrnatiorutl bcst practice
    *  Producecamplac financialstateillt'nis within six rnanthsof thc cnd of the financialyear
       Upgrade Accounting System to enablebetter commitmentcontrol aridcash flow
                                 -
       ~         ~and allow~dwentrtli;mi budget execution(nonspecific functional outcams
                                       e            ~                      ~
       dtfincdf
    0  RollQUI accountingsystem inremainingministries

0     0




0    0      0




0           0




0          0

      0




I
0     0         0

v)
I




      0    0         0




      0

 I
3
lr,
 I

e         e




e     e




e




e    e




e

      e




                 e    a

           Q-
           0




I
m
VI
I




      e




      e

0

I
v,
v,
I




      E


I
b
v,
I

                                            -58 -

                            ANNEX 3: FUNDRELATIONS NOTE

                West Bank & Gaza-Assessment Letter to the World Bank
                                          May 2,2008

Contactperson: Mr.Oussama Kanaan(okanaan@imf.org, 623-4001)


EconomicConditionsand Outlook

While the Palestinian economy has fared better since the reengagement of the international
community in mid-2007, it remains constrained by Israeli restrictions on movement and access
relatedto security concerns. Real GDP inthe West Bank and Gaza (WBG) i s estimatedto have
contracted by about 5 percent in 2006, with a further contraction in the first half of 2007. The
rebound in growth since June2007, reflecting the end of financial sanctions and improved
private sector confidence, has been confined to the West Bank. Overall real GDP growth for
WBG is estimatedto have been about zero in2007. At the same time, unemploymentremains
highandinflationhasrisen recently, reaching 11percent inthe year to March2008. Increasesin
the prices of food and housingwere particularly large, and higher idation inGaza reflects the
tighter border restrictionsthere.

Bank deposits grew by 4 percent (real terms) reflecting the continued deepening in bank
intermediation and remittances from the Palestiniandiaspora. However, total credit declinedby
21percent (real terms), with a more pronounced decline in Gaza due to the more depressed
investment conditions. With substantial technical support from the IMF and World Bank, the
PalestineMonetary Authority has made goodprogresson internalreform andcapacity building.

The 2007 recurrent fiscal deficit reached an unsustainable 27percent of GDP. The deficit
would have been even higher without the lifting of financial sanctions and resumption of
clearance revenue transfers in mid-2007. Prime Minister Fayyad's government initiated a
number of adjustment measures and strengthenedthe Public Financial Management System.
The wage bill contracted inthe second half of 2007 due to the retrenchment of about 20,000
(mainly security) employees in July. Expenditure control was facilitated by reestablishingthe
Central Treasury Account and restoring pre-2006 cash controls. The improved liquidity
allowed some wage arrears to be repaid, although nonwage expenditure arrears continued to
accumulate.

Turning to the macroeconomicoutlook, expectationsare that Israeli restrictionswill be relaxedin
the remainder of 2008, and that donor pledges and the Palestinian Authority (PA)'s fiscal
consolidation efforts will be in line with the Palestinian Reform and Development Plan
(PRDP). Real GDP growth is projected to increase from zero in2007 to 3 percent in2008,
slightly lower than in the PRDP (3?4percent), mainly reflecting less favorable economic
conditions inIsraeland globally. Inflation would decline, inline withthe envisagedrelaxation of
restrictions. Real GDP growth would then rise steadily to 6%percent in2010, with the increase
indonor-fundedandprivatesector investmentgraduallyoffsettingthe impactofcontinuedfiscal
consolidation.

                                           - 59 -

 The 2008 budget targets a reduction in the recurrent deficit to 22 percent of GDP in2008,
which would be a significant stride toward fiscal sustainability. Its core policies include:
 (i)
   freezing wage rates andnew employment (except for health and education); (ii)  measures to
increase utility payments by households and municipalities; and (iii)         improved cash
management and spending commitment controls to help prioritize and raise the quality of
 spending, andminimize arrears accumulation.

To fully finance the recurrent budget for 2008, additional donor financing will be needed
beyond that pledged at the 2007 Paris conference. Although the total amount pledged for
2008-1 0 is significantly above the PRDP's requirements,pledges allocated for the recurrent
budget are below those needed to finance the projected deficits. For 2008, the amounts
disbursed or confirmed are adequate to cover recurrent financing needs for the first half of
the year. However, without additional pledges and disbursements, there will be a significant
financing shortfall ofNIS 1.4billion (about $0.4 billion) inthe secondhalf of the year.

Risksand Challenges

Close cooperation among the three parties-the       PA, the Government of Israel (GoI), and
donors-is   essentialto contain significant risksto the macroeconomic and fiscal outlook.

e       If Israeli restrictions remain tight, a solid recovery would fail to materialize and
        unemployment would rise. Social and political pressures against austerity measures,
        which have recently increased, could grow further if incomes and employment
        opportunities remain constrained by Israeli restrictions, posing a significant risk to
        fiscal adjustment.

e       A deterioration inthe political, security and economic situation inGazawould require
        additional emergency assistance and could slow reforms.

e       Close coordination among donors, and with the PA, will be essential to ensure
        adequate andtimely disbursementsfor the recurrent budget, and thus prevent liquidity
        problems and expenditure arrears. Meeting the recurrent budget's financing needs
        requires additional donor assistance, possibly by shifting donor pledges from other
        areas suchas development assistance.

Status of IMFRelations

WBG is not a member of the IMF and therefore not eligible for financial assistance. Since
the 1993 Oslo Accord, the Fundhas beenprovidingpolicy advice and technical assistance in
the macroeconomic, fiscal, and financial areas. IMF staff is producing quarterly reports on
implementation of the PA's PRDP fiscal plan and public finance reforms. Together with
World Bank reports focused on structural reforms, the assessment of overall reform progress
will be taken into consideration by donors intheir disbursement decisions.

                                                                        - 60 -

                    ANNEX 4: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE (includescountry map)

  West Bank and Gaza at a dance                                                                                                              9/28/07

                                                                      West        M. East       Lower
 Key Development Indicators                                           Bank       & North        middle
                                                                   & Gaza          Africa      income           ADOdistribution, 2006
 (2006)                                                                                                                     Male              Female

 Population,mid-year(millions)                                          3.7          311         2.278          70-74
 Surfacearea (thousandsq. km)                                                      8,990        28,549          E M 4
 Populationgrowth (%)                                                   3.1           1.7          0.9
 Urbanpopulation(% of total population)                                 72            57            47          50-54
                                                                                                                4 w 4

 GNI (Atlas method,US$ billions)                                       4.5           771         4,635          30-34

 GNI per capita (Atlas method,US$)                                   1,230         2,481         2,037          20-24

 GNI per capita (PPP,international$)                                               6,447         7,020

 GDP growth(%)                                                                                                       20      10       0        10      20
                                                                      -11.o
                                                                       -8.0           5.4          8.8
 GDP par capitagrowth(%)                                                              3.6          7.9                              percent

 (mort recent ufimah, 2MHI-2006)
                                                                                                              I
 Povertyhaadcountratio at $1 a day (PPP,%)                                              1
 Povertyheedcountratio at $2 a day (PPP, %)                                           20                        Ujder.6 miiiiity rate (per 1,000)
 Life expectancyat birth (years)                                        72            70            71
 Infantmortality(per 1,000live births)                                  21            43            31          loo,
 Childmalnutrition(% of childrenunder5)                                   5           14            13

Adult literacy,mala (% of ages 15 and older)                            97            83            93
Adult literacy,female (% of ages 15 and older)                          88            63            85
 Grossprimaryenrollment,male (% of age group)                           89           106           117
 Grossprimaryenrollment,female (% of age group)                         88            99           114

Access to an improvedwater source(% of population)                      92            90            81
Access to improvedsanitationfacilities (% of population)                73            76            55                    lUB0   1965   2000    20p5

                                                                                                                          owest BankandGaza
                                                                                                                          0MiddleEast8 NorthAfrica

 Net Aid Flows                                            1980        1990         zoo0           2006 '

(US$ millions)
Net ODA and official aid                                               179           637         1,102          Jrowth of GDP and GDP per capita (Oh)
 Top 3 donors(in 2005):
   UnitedStates                                                         19            60           180          20 1
   Norway                                                                0            20            74
   Genany                                                                             17            40

Aid (% of GNI)                                                                       13.3         25.0
Aid per capita (US$)                                                    81           215           304


Long-Term Economic Trends
                                                                                                                               85          00        05
Consumerprices(annual % change)                                                      2.0           3.8
GDP implicit deflator(annual% change)                                                2.9          -0.3              -0-GDP          -GDP       percapita

Exchangerate (annualaverage,local per US$)                                           4.1           4.2
T e n s of trade index(2000 = 100)                                                   100          105
                                                                                                                  1980-90    1990-2000      2000-06
                                                                                                                       (average annualgrowth %)
Population,mid-year(millions)                                          2.0           3.0           3.7                              4.1          3.3
GDP (US$ millions)                                                                 4,113        4,393                               7.3         -2.0
                                                                       (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                                                        8.0
Industry                                                                                          13.0
  Manufacturing                                                                                   11.9
Services                                                                                          25.3

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure                                               95.5          95.0                              5.3         -0.6
Generalgov't final consumptionexpenditure                                           27.0          32.0                            12.7           2.1
Grosscapitalformation                                                               32.7          26.9                              9.2         -0.8

Exportsof goodsand sarvicas                                                         16.0          15.7                              8.7         -6.9
Importsof goodsand services                                                         71.2          69.7                              7.5         -1.2
Grosssavings                                                                         7.8          11.2

Nota: Figuresin italicsare for years otherthan those specified. 2006 data are preliminary. .. indicatesdata ara not available
e. Aid data are for 2005.

DevelopmentEconomics,DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).

                                                                         - 61 -


                                                                                                                                   West Bank and Gaza

 Balanceof Paymentsand Trade                             2000       2006
                                                                                       IGovernance indicators, 2000 and 2006
 (US$ millions)
Total merchandiseexports (fob)                             874        70
Total merchandiseimports(uf)                             2,490     2.858                  Voica and accountability
 Net trade in goods and services                        -2,270     .2,788                         Politicalatability
Workers' remittancesand
   compensationof employees (receipts)                     842                                  Regulatoryquality

 Currentaccountbalance                                  -1,025      -388                               Ruleof law
   as a % of GDP                                         -24.9       -8.0                    Control of corruption                                   j
 Reserves,includinggoid                                                                                             0      25          50           75      1W

 Central Government Finance                                                                    m2006                  Country'spercentilerank (0-100)
                                                                                               02000                    hgher values rm@y bslter nlingr

 (% of GDP)
Current revenue(includinggrants)                          23.9      39.0                Sourn Kaufmann-Kraay-Maolruul World Bank

   Tax revenue                                           19.4
Currentexpenditure                                        28.9      31.1
                                                                                     Technology and Infrastructure                                  2000    2005
Overall surpius/deficit                                   -5.3      -1.8
                                                                                     Pavedroads (% of total)                                      100.0     700.0
Highestmarginaltax rate (56)                                                         Fixedline and mobile phone
   individual                                                                          subscribers(per 1,000people)                                  151     290
   Corporate                                                                         Hightechnologyexports
                                                                                       (% of manufacturedexporls)
 External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                     Environment
(US$ mil,ions)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed                                                  Agriculturalland (% of land area)
Total debt service                                                                   Forestarea (W of landarea)                                       1.5     1.5
Debt relief (HIPC, MDRI)                                     -         -             Nationallyprotectedareas(% of land area)

Total debt (% of GDP)                                                                Freshwaterresourcesper capita (cu. meters)
Total debt service(% of exports)                                                     Freshwaterwithdrawal(% of intemairesources)

Foreigndirect investment(net inflows)                                                C02 emissionsper capita(mt)
Portfolioequity (net inflows)
                                                                                     GDP per unit of energy use
                                                                                       (2000 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)
    :omposition of total external debt, 2005                  (data
    ire not available)                                                               Energyuse per capita(kg of oil equivalent)




                                                                                      (US$ rn////OflS)

                                                                                      iBRD
                                                                                       Total debt outstandingand disbursed
                                                                                       Disbursements
                                                                                       Principalrepayments
                                                                                       interestpayments

    IS$ millions                                                                      IDA
                                                                                       Total debt outstandingand disbursed
                                                                                       Disbursements
Private Sector Development                               2000       2006               Total debt service

Time requiredto start a business(days)                                93              iFC (fiscalyearj
Cost to start a business(% of GNI per capita)                      324.7               Total disbursedand outstandingportfolio                        30       6
Time requiredto registerproperty(days)                       ---      72                of which IFC own account                                      30       8
                                                                                       Disbursementsfor iFC own eccount                               18       0
Rankedas a majorconstraintto business                                                  Portfoliosales.prepaymentsand
  (% of managerssurveyedwho agreed)                                                     repaymentsfor IFC own account                                  0       0
    n.8.
    n.8.                                                                             MlGA
                                                                                       Grossexposure
Stock marketcapitalization(% of GDP)                     18.8      111.1               Newguarantees                                                   --      --
Bank capitalto assetratio (%)


Note: Figuresin italicsare for years other than those specified. 2006 data are preiiminaly
..indicatesdata                                                                                                                                           9/28/07
                 are not available. -indicates observationis not applicable.

DevelopmentEconomics,DevelopmentData Group (DECDG).

                                                                        - 62 -


Millennium Development Goals                                                                                            West Bank and Gaza


Withselected targets to achievebetween 1990and 2015
(esbmate closestto date shown, +/- 2years)


Goal 1:halve the rates for $1a day poverty and malnutrition                                        1990         I996           2000          2006
 Povertyheadcountratioat $1 a day (PPP, % of population)
 Poverty headcountratioat national povertyline (% of population)                                                                              30.8
 Share of income or consumptionto the poorest qunitile(%)
 Prevalenceof malnutrition(% of children under 5)                                                                4.1

Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primary schooling
 Primaryschool enroilment (net, %)                                                                                               96             85
 Primarycompletion rate (%of relevant age group)                                                                                103
 Secondaryschool enrollment (gross, %)                                                                                           81             75
 Youth literacy rate (%of people ages 15-24)                                                                      97                            99

Goal 3: eliminate gender disparity in education and empower women
 Ratioof girlsto boys in primary and secondaryeducation (%)                                                                     104            100
 Womenemployedin the nonagrlcultural sector (% of nonagricultural employment)                        10            12            14
 Proportionof seats heldbywomen in national parliament(%)                                                                                       13

Goal 4: reduce under-5 rnortalltyby two-thirds
 Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                                                                 40             33            27             28
 infant mortality rate (per 1,000live births)                                                       34             28            24             25
 Measlesimmunization(proportionof one-yearolds immunized, %)                                                       73            93             97

Goal 5: reduce maternal mortality bythree-fourths
 Maternal mortality ratio (modeledestimate, per 100,000live births)
 Birthsattended by skilled health staff (% of total)                                                              95             97

Goal 6: halt and begin to reverse the spread of HIWAIDS and other major diseases
 Prevalenceof HIV (% of population ages 15-49)
 Contraceptiveprevalence (% of women ages 15-49)                                                                  42                            50
 Incidenceof tuberculosis (per 100,000people)                                                       31             31            26
 Tuberculosis cases detected under DOTS (%)                                                                                      10

Goal 7: halve the propodon of people without sustainable access to basic needs
 Accessto an improvedwater source (% of population)                                                                92            92             68
 Accessto improvedsanitation facilities(% of population)                                                           73            73             50
 Forest area (% of total landarea)                                                                  1.5                          1.5           1.5
 Nationally protected areas (% of total landarea)
 C02 emissions (metric tons percapita)
 GDP per unit of energy use (constant 2000 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)

Goal 8: develop a global partnershlp for development
 Fixed line and mobile phone subscribers (per 1,000people)                                          34            42            151           290
 Internet users (per 1,000people)                                                                    0                           12
 Personalcomputers(per 1,000people)                                                                                              39
 Youth unemployment(% of total labor force ages 15-24)                                                                         34.8           24.0


   Educationindicators (%)                               Measles Immunization (% of I-yearolds)         ICT indicators (per 1,000people)
   looi-==-z
   125 7                                                 100  1                                   I    1 5 w 1


    75                                                     75                                            4W
    ::]                                                                                          1     1 3w
                                                           50
            ,     ,      ,     ,      ,    ,    ,                                                        2 w

     0                                                     25                                            100
           2000        2002               2005
                                                            0                                              0
                                                                   iaao    1885  2000    2w5                     2000      2002         2w5
       &Primary       net enrollmentratio

       &Ratio       of girlsto boys in primaly &                   0West BankandGaza                              OFixed + mobilesubscribers
              secondaryeducation                                   0MiddleEast8 NorthAfrlCB                       eInternetusers



Note: Figuresin italicsare for years other than those specified...indicatesdataare not available.                                          9/28/07

Development Economics,Development Data Group (DECDG).

MapSection


                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33512R1

                                                                                                             3500'E                                       To
                                                                                                                                                         Nazareth                       3530'E
              WEST BANK
                                                                                                                                To Haifa
               AND GAZA
                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                RIVERS                                                       3230'N                                                     Yamounmoun                                                            3230'N

                                                                                                                                                                     Jenin
                                                                                                                                                                     Jenin
                MAIN ROADS                                                                                                               Ya'bada'bad
                                                                                                                              Kaffeen
                                                                                                                              Kaffeen
                RAILROAD                                                                                                                                  Qabatia
                                                                                                                                                          Qabatia

                ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949                                                                                                   JENIN
                                                                                                                                                    JENIN

                NO-MAN'S LAND AREAS,
                ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949                                                    To Netanya             TULKARMTULKARM
                                                                                                                                   AnaptaAnapta                                  Tubas
                                                                                                                                                                                 ubas
                                                                                                                                                                                      TUBASTUBAS
                JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY                                                                       Tulkar
                                                                                                                          ulkarm
                                                                                                                                                                                  Tammun
                                                                                                                                                                                   ammun
                                                                                                                                                                                    mmun
                EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
                THEN ANNEXED JULY 30, 1980                                                                                                           Mt. 'Eval
                                                                                                                                                     Mt. 'Eval
                                                                                                                                                     (940 m)
                                                                                                                                                     (940 m)
                GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                      NablusNablus
                                                                                                    QalqilyahQalqilyah
                ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARY                                                                                 QALQILYAH
                                                                                                                        QALQIL                           NABLUS
                                                                                                                                                         NABLUS
                                                                                              To                                                                                                                    To
                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                    Tel Aviv                                                                                                             Um Qais

                                                                                                                               SALFIT
                                                                                                                               SALFIT
                                              3430'E                                                                                Salfit
                                                                                                                                     Salfit    W e s t
  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                       To                                                                                           River
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                        Ramla                                                                                              JORDAN
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                             B a n k
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                           To                                                                                                    nadroJ
                                                                                       Tel Aviv
3200'N                                                                                                                                                             Tallll Asur
                                                                                                                                                                           Asur                              To 3200'N
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Amman
                                                                                                                                                                    (1,022 m)
                                                                                                                                                                    (1,022 m)
                                                                                                                                    RAMALLAHRAMALLAH                                  JERICHOJERICHO

                                                                                                                                                  Ramallah
                                                                                                                                                  Ramallah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                        JerichoJericho          Amman
        M e d i t e r r a n e a n
                                                                                                                                                    JERUSALEMJERUSALEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                          S e a                                                                                                                                                                                 Amman
                                                                                                                                                     JERUSALEMJERUSALEM


                                                                                                        To                                        BethlehemBethlehem
                                                                                                      Ashdod
                                                                                ISRAEL
                                                                                                                                                    BETHLEHEM
                                                                                                                                                    BETHLEHEM
                                                                    To
                                                                  Tel Aviv
                                                                                                  To
                                                                                               Ashqelon                                                                                Dead
                              JABALYA
                                     Beit Lahia                                                                                    (1,020 m)
                                                                                                                                   (1,020 m)                                            Sea
                           Gaza City                                                                                               Hebron
                                                                                                                                   Hebron
                                                   Jabalya
                                                   Jabalya
                    GAZA CITY                                                                                                                                                                                   3130'N
   Gaza                                                                                                                        HEBRON
                                                                                                                               HEBRON
                     Nusejrat
DEIR EL BALAH                                                   To                                                               Yattah
                                                                                                                                  attah
                                   El Bureij
                                   El Bureij                Beersheba
        Deir el Balah                                                                                                 Zohar
                                                                                                                      Zohar

      KHAN
      YUNIS
                     Khan
                     Khan                                                                                                                                                    To
                     Yu is
                     Yun                                                                                                                                                    Zofar
                                                                                        To
                                                                                     Beersheba

            Rafah
            Rafah
                           RAFAH                                                                                                                                                            JORDAN
               Abu 'Awdah
               Abu 'Awdah
  To           (105 m)
               (105 m)
El Arish
                  To                          WEST BANK
                  Elat                          AND GAZA

 ARAB                                                                                                      0          5    10   15 Kilometers
REP. OF
EGYPT                                                                                                      0              5       10             15 Miles

3100'N                                                                                                                                                                                                         3100'N


                                                3430'E                                                       3500'E                                                                    3530'E

                                                                                                                                                                                                               JUNE 2007

