                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                              Report No: ICR00001077




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                     (TF-92234)




                                        ON A

                              TRUST FUND GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 40 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                  PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION
                    (for the Benefit of the Palestinian Authority)

                                       FOR A

              PALESTINIAN REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN
                        DEVELOPMENT POLICY GRANT

                           IN WEST BANK AND GAZA




                                   June 11, 2009




Social and Economic Development Group
West Bank and Gaza Country Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
            (Exchange Rate Effective February 11, 2009)

             Currency Unit = New Israeli Shekels (NIS)
                           NIS 1.00 = US$ 0.25
                          US$ 1.00 = NIS 4.04

                             FISCAL YEAR

                        January 1 - December 31


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CTA         Central Treasury Account
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GNP         Gross National Product
ICA         Investment Climate Assessment
IDA         International Development Association
IMF         International Monetary Fund
EUMP        Electric Utility Management Project
LDP         Letter of Development Policy
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOSA        Ministry of Social Affairs
NIS         New Israeli Shekel
PA          Palestinian Authority
PFM         Public Financial Management
PIF         Palestinian Investment Fund
PLC         Palestinian Legislative Council
PRDP        Palestinian Reform and Development Plan 2008-2010
PRDP DPG    Palestinian Reform and Development Plan Development Policy Grant
PRDP-TF     The Palestinian Reform and Development Multi-Donor Trust Fund
TFGWB       Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
WBG         West Bank and Gaza




                      Vice President: Daniela Gressani
                   Country Director:  A. David Craig
                     Sector Director: Ritva S. Reinikka
                    Sector Manager:   Zoubida Allaoua
                 Task Team Leader:    John L. Nasir
                   ICR Team Leader    John L. Nasir

                                       WEST BANK AND GAZA
     Palestinian Reform and Development Plan Development Policy Grant


                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
A. Basic Informationi 
B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................................ i 
C. Ratings Summary .................................................................................................................... i 
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................................ ii 
E. Bank Staff............................................................................................................................... ii 
F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................................. iii 
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs ............................................................................. vi 
H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................................ vi

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design......................................................... 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................................... 7 
3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................ 9 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................................... 13 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 14 
6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 17 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....................... 17

Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.......................... 19 
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 20 
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results............................................................... 21 
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 22 
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 30 
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents................................................................................... 31 
MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Palestinian Reform and
                                                                      Development Plan
Country:                West Bank and Gaza      Program Name:
                                                                      Development Policy
                                                                      Grant
Program ID:             P111078                 L/C/TF Number(s):     TF-92234
ICR Date:               06/11/2009              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                      PALESTINE
Lending Instrument:     DPL                     Borrower:             LIBERATION
                                                                      ORGANIZATION
Original Total
                        USD 40.0M               Disbursed Amount:     USD 40.0M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Finance of the Palestinian Authority
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date              Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/13/2008      Effectiveness:       06/10/2008         06/09/2008
Appraisal:                             Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/05/2008      Mid-term Review:
                                       Closing:             10/31/2008         10/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                 Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:             Satisfactory      Government:                 Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:       Satisfactory      Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:            Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:                  Satisfactory      Performance:                Satisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators          (if any)               Rating:

Potential Problem
                                             Quality at Entry
Program at any time       No                                      None
                                             (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any                       Quality of
                          No                                      None
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             51               51
Other social services                                         12               12
Power                                                         25               25
Sub-national government administration                        12               12


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                        Secondary       Secondary
Administrative and civil service reform                     Secondary       Secondary
Municipal finance                                           Secondary       Secondary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                             Primary         Primary
procurement
Social safety nets                                          Secondary       Secondary


E. Bank Staff
       Positions                       At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Daniela Gressani                Daniela Gressani
Country Director:         A. David Craig                  A. David Craig
Sector Manager:           Zoubida Allaoua                 Zoubida Allaoua
Program Team Leader:      John L. Nasir                   John L. Nasir
ICR Team Leader:          John L. Nasir
ICR Primary Author:       John L. Nasir

F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

This operation was designed to support the Palestinian Authority as it implements the
reform program detailed in the Palestinian Reform and Development Plan (PRDP). This
plan was developed internally by the Caretaker Government, with limited input from the
donor community. The plan reflects the Caretaker Government's belief that it must move
aggressively to control the budget and quit accumulating arrears. It takes advantage of the
goodwill and high level of donor support pledged at the Paris Donor Conference in
December 2007. To have the largest impact, the project focuses on two specific areas: (i)
strengthening the PA's fiscal position; and (ii) improving public financial management.
These are critical building blocks for the government of an independent Palestinian state
and are also crucial for attracting continued international donor support. The Bank's
involvement in supporting and monitoring the reform agenda would strengthen the PA's
capacity to achieve the desired reforms and also help build the required support among
donors. The Bank supported the PRDP process in two complementary ways: (i) it has
established the PRDP Trust Fund as requested by the PA; and (ii) provided the proposed
development policy grant.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)

The PDO remained the same during the life of the project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value        Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
                                             approval         Target       Completion or
                                           documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Control Public Wage Bill
                                        Target value was
Value                                   for the wage bill to
(quantitative or Public wage bill was   be 24.3% of GDP                  Wage Bill for 2008

Qualitative)     24.6% of GDP in 2007   in 2008                          was 22.4% of GDP


Date achieved    12/31/2007             10/31/2008                       10/31/2008

Comments         The PA's efforts to control the public wage bill were highly successful. The

(incl. %         budget target was to reduce the wage bill from 24.6% of GDP in 2007 to

achievement)     24.3% in 2008. In fact, the 2008 wage bill at end-2008 was more than 2%
                 below the budget and was only 22.3% of GDP. More than 100% achieved.

Indicator 2 :    Reduce Net Lending: Institute measure to increase collection of utility bills
                 from users

Value            The PA had distributed PA distributes                   PA has distributed

(quantitative or nearly 20,000 prepaid  40,000 new meters                nearly 45,000

Qualitative)     meters and required    in 2008 and has                  meters by October
                 "certificates of       successfully                     2008, above the

                 payment" (COP) of         maintained the                   40,000 targeted for
                 utility bills to obtain   COP system                       the year. It
                 government services                                        continues to require
                                                                            certificates of
                                                                            payments. Net
                                                                            lending fell by
                                                                            nearly 27% in 2008

Date achieved    05/30/2007                10/31/2008                       10/31/2008
Comments         The PA continued measures to increase the rate of utility collections, while
(incl. %         protecting the most vulnerable households. The Energy Authority is continuing
achievement)     to distribute prepaid meters and is above the targeted number.

Indicator 3 :    Reduce Net lending by removing municipal and local governments from
                 electricity distribution business by forming commercial distribution companies

                 Northern Electric         The PA produces a
                                           plan to shift
Value            Distribution Company      municipal                        The PA has
(quantitative or formed and no plan to     electricity                      produced no
Qualitative)     shift electricity
                 distribution to           distribution to new              comprehensive plan

                 commercial companies      distribution
                                           companies
Date achieved    05/30/2007                10/31/2008                       10/31/2008

Comments         To reduce net lending, the PA planned to shift electricity distribution to

(incl. %         commercially run companies. However, the most problematic municipalities

achievement)     have not joined the companies and some of the companies are not run on a
                 commercial basis.

Indicator 4 :    Improve targeting of social safety net to increase efficiency and ensure the
                 most vulnerable populations are protected
                                           Increased home                   More than 32,000

Value            Verification of 4,500     visits to verify                 households were in

(quantitative or households in the         targeting database               the database by the

Qualitative)     targeting database        to 5,000 per                     end of 2008. A rate
                                           quarter by end                   exceeding 5,000 a
                                           2008                             quarter
Date achieved    05/30/2008                10/31/2008                       10/31/2008
Comments         The targeting database has been successful. By the end of 2008 more than
(incl. %         32,000 households had received field visits and had been entered into the
achievement)     database.

Indicator 5 :    Increase financial accountability through improved and more transparent
                 municipal accounts
                                           Municipal
                                           Development Fund
                                           finalizes pilot                  The MDLF had
Value            Palestinian               financial                        finalized the pilot
(quantitative or municipalities had no     management                       stage of the
Qualitative)     unified financial
                 management system         information for                  financial
                                           small, medium and                information system
                                           large
                                           municipalities that

                                         will be tested and
                                         rolled out
Date achieved    05/30/2008              10/31/2008                        10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %         The new financial management system has been successfully piloted and is

achievement)     being rolled out in the West Bank. This target was 100% achieved.

Indicator 6 :    Establish upgraded institutional and regulatory procedures to support PFM
                 reforms
                                         The MoF approves
                                         a design paper for                The MoF approved

                                         the new financial                 a design paper for

                 PFM system had          management                        the financial

Value            broken down during the information                        management

(quantitative or Hamas government and system and issues                    system.

Qualitative)     PA has few working      regulations to                    Regulations are not

                 financial controls      support it. It                    complete. The

                                         activates the new                 Accountant General

                                         Accountant                        Office is in

                                         General Office                    operation

Date achieved    05/30/2008              10/31/2008                        10/31/2008

Comments         The MoF has made substantial progress in improving its PFM institutions.

(incl. %         They introduced a computerized financial management system along with the

achievement)     design paper to support it. The MoF is also finalizing amendments to the
                 financial regulations.
Indicator 7:     Improve efficiency and transparency of the budget preparation process

                 The 2008 budget was     Develop a

                 approved by the         combined                          The PA passed a
                                         presentation of the               2009 budget that
Value            Council of Minister and recurrent and                     presents a
(quantitative or signed by the President.development                       combined
Qualitative)     The MoF has resumed
                 publication of monthly  budgets for each                  development and

                 expenditure and         line ministry for                 recurrent budget for

                 revenue statements      the 2009 Annual                   each line ministry
                                         Budget Law
Date achieved    05/30/2008              10/31/2008                        10/31/2008

Comments         The 2009 budget made a combined presentation of the development and

(incl. %         recurrent budgets using a program format. The PA has continued to publish

achievement)     monthly financial statements by the 15th of the following month. 100%
                 achieved.
Indicator 8:     Strengthen PFM infrastructure and improve auditing functions
                                         Strengthen Central                The PA has not

                 Non zero balance        Treasury Account                  closed all non-zero
                                         by closing non-                   balance bank
Value            accounts open for line  zero balance line                 accounts and not
(quantitative or ministries. Ministries  ministry and                      yet produced a cash
Qualitative)     not linked to MoF via a
                 financial management    agency bank                       plan. The internal

                 information system      accounts for                      audit department of
                                         recurrent                         the MoF carried out
                                         expenditures.                     a number of audits

                                          Prepare annual                         during 2008
                                          cash plan.
                                          Develop internal
                                          audit plan and
                                          produce selected
                                          audits


Date achieved    05/30/2008               10/31/2008                             10/31/2008

Comments         This indicator was not substantially met. The introduction of zero-balance

(incl. %         accounts is linked with the roll out of the new computerized system. The delay

achievement)     in rolling out the system has resulted in a delay in closing non-zero balance
                 accounts.




(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target         Formally         Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                           Achieved at
                                                approval            Revised         Completion or
                                               documents)       Target Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :    The PA is making efforts to reduce net lending. It is on track to be some 25%
                 lower than last year. But it is still above the target set in the 2008 Budget
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                            IP                  Disbursements
                                                                                   (USD millions)



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Efforts to build an independent Palestinian State have faced enormous political
complications and continued violence. Despite these challenges, the Palestinian
Authority, supported by the international community, has continued to struggle towards
this goal. In late 2000, a second Intifada erupted throughout the West Bank and Gaza
(WBG) that culminated in large Israeli military incursions into Palestinian controlled
areas in 2002 and 2003. The incursions were accompanied by extensive closures and
restrictions on movement imposed on the Palestinian population. These measures have
had a crippling effect on the economy, health and welfare of the Palestinian people.

In 2004, the level of violence ebbed and the economy began to recover slowly. However,
in early 2006 a Hamas-led government was elected. In response, most donors withdrew
direct support to the Palestinian Authority (PA) and the Government of Israel (GOI) cut
off the transfer of tax clearance revenues that it collects on behalf of the PA. This forced
the PA to reduce payments of public salaries and build up substantial arrears to the
private sector. It also led to the deterioration of many government institutions that had
been laboriously built over the previous decade. At the same time, GOI intensified the
application of road closures and restrictions on the movement of people and goods.
Israeli settlement activity and the construction of the separation barrier also continued
unabated, which resulted in even greater impediments to economic activity in the West
Bank and Gaza.

In June 2007, Hamas took control of Gaza by force and on June 17th, President Abbas
dissolved the Hamas-led government and swore in an emergency government of
technocrats, which has since become a caretaker government (Caretaker Government)
until new presidential and parliamentary elections are held. The international community
rallied around the new Caretaker Government. Most donors restarted their programs of
financial and technical support and the GOI released tax clearance revenues. However,
the Palestinian territories remained effectively split. Gaza, under the control of a Hamas
administration, has been completely isolated by a strict closure policy applied by the
GOI. Violence was increasing and has included large scale Israeli incursions. The PA
continued to pay most workers in Gaza and deliver basic services such as health and
education. But many central government functions that used to be performed in Gaza
had to be transferred to the West Bank. Private sector activity collapsed and the
population was subsisting on emergency donor aid. The UN reports that the closures and
violence led to a serious decline in health indicators for the Gaza population. On the
other hand, the West Bank saw a decline in violence and an increase in economic growth,
albeit from a low base. However, because of continued Israeli settlement expansion and
closures, investment remained depressed.



                                              1

By early 2008, the Caretaker Government was moving rapidly to re-establish institutions
and rebuild confidence in the West Bank and demonstrate its ability to govern effectively.
In December 2007, it presented the Palestinian Reform and Development Plan (PRDP) to
donors at the Paris Donor Conference. This comprehensive plan lays out reforms to help
re-start economic growth and improve the welfare of citizens. The PRDP details steps
towards fiscal reform and greater government transparency and accountability.          In
addition, it sets out a public investment program to complement the private sector
investment that is expected to power the economy.           The plan can only be fully
implemented in the West Bank, where the new government is in full control. However, it
is designed to be expanded to Gaza as soon as the situation permits. The success of the
PRDP depends upon parallel actions by the PA, the donor community and the GOI. If
the GOI does not relax its movement and access restrictions, then the private sector will
not be able to grow. Likewise, if the donors do not provide financial support at the
current critical juncture, the government will not be able to function or implement the
reforms.

At the Paris Donor Conference in December 2007, the international donor community
pledged US$7.5 billion to fund the PRDP over the 2008-11 period. The PA requested
much of the aid in unrestricted budget support in order to allocate funds in an optimal
way, but many donors are hesitant to provide funds directly to the PA budget. Some have
pledged funds for projects and others have pledged to pay recurrent costs (mainly
salaries) directly. Only a few donors, including the Bank, have pledged untied budget
support.

Untied budget support is essential for the PA to function. Its biggest expenses are
salaries (including pensions) and "net lending", much of which are payments by the
central government to the Israel Electricity Company for power supplied to Palestinian
municipalities and other distributors. Domestic revenues are not adequate to cover these
costs. It is also important that the needed external support be provided through the PA's
Central Treasury Account (CTA).         Using the CTA helps the PA develop budget
discipline and strengthen its public financial management systems, which were severely
damaged during the aid cut in 2006.

To encourage donors to use the CTA, the Bank and the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) jointly agreed to monitor and report to donors on a quarterly basis, the PA's
allocation and use of funds, and to assess progress in meeting the goals outlined in the
PRDP. The monitoring focuses on progress in improving the fiscal position and public
financial management.      In addition, the Caretaker Government asked the Bank to
establish a multi-donor trust fund called the PRDP-TF, to support the PRDP by providing
untied budget support through the CTA. The Bank has established the PRDP-TF and at
the request of the PA, also provided direct budget support through this DPG of US$40
million equivalent. The PA believes that such deep Bank involvement will help mobilize
otherwise reluctant donors to support their reform plan and provide budget support.


                                             2

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

This operation is designed to support the PA as it implements the reform program
detailed in the PRDP. The plan reflects the Caretaker Government's belief that it must
move aggressively to control the budget and quit accumulating arrears. It takes advantage
of the goodwill and high level of donor support pledged at the Paris Donor Conference in
December 2007. To have the largest impact, the project focuses on two specific areas: (i)
strengthening the PA's fiscal position; and (ii) improving public financial management.
These are critical building blocks for the government of an independent Palestinian state
and are also crucial for attracting continued international donor support. The Bank's
involvement in supporting and monitoring the reform agenda described in the policy
matrix will strengthen the PA's capacity to achieve the desired reforms and also help
build the required support among donors. The Bank will support the PRDP process in
two complementary ways: (i) it has established the PRDP Trust Fund as requested by the
PA; and (ii) will provide the proposed development policy grant.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

The PDO and the key indicators have remained the same during the life of the project.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The proposed grant supported actions in the two policy: (i) strengthening the fiscal
position and (ii) improving public financial management.

i) Strengthening the Fiscal Position

To strengthen the fiscal position, the Prime Minister and his team determined that they
must control the public work force and reduce net lending.

Prior Action 1: Initiate civil service reforms to bring public sector payroll to levels
compatible with the fiscal targets of the PRDP for the period 2008-2010.

Wages and salaries are the largest expenditure in the PA budget and until recently was
the fastest growing component of the budget. By 2007, wages and salaries for public
employees exceeded total domestic revenues and was continuing to grow. To gain
control of this situation, the Caretaker Government instituted a number of reforms to
bring the total PA wage bill in line with the PRDP plan. The PA has dismissed a number
of workers who had been recently hired without going through the required civil service
process.    Most of these workers were security personnel hired by the previous
government. In addition, they verified the current employment roll. Together, these
actions reduced the public work force to less than 150,000. In addition, because of
exceptionally large salary increases in previous years, they passed a budget with no
general increase in public sector wage levels. The Caretaker Government's original plan
called for no general salary increases and limited growth of public sector employment to


                                             3

3,000 annually, primarily in the education and health sectors over the next three years.
These actions are expected to reduce the wage bill from 25 percent to around 22 percent
of GDP by the end of 2010.

Net Lending

Net lending is one of the largest expenditures in the budget and the largest component of
net lending is the cost of electricity delivered to the municipalities from the Israel
Electricity Company (IEC) for distribution to consumers but not paid for by the
municipalities. This debt to IEC is deducted by the GOI from the income due to the PA
from import duties, thus lowering the PA revenue from import duties. This situation is
very costly for the PA budget and clearly cannot be continued. The PA's goal is to
reduce net lending from US$530 million to about US$400 million by 2010. As the PA
takes actions to increase collection rates, it is taking steps to ensure that the most
vulnerable parts of society are protected.

Prior Action 2: Initiate a program to gradually reduce net lending associated with the
cost of provision of electricity services.

A culture of non-payment has developed in large parts of WBG and the first step to
reducing net lending is to increase the collection rate for electricity bills. In early 2008,
the PA initiated difficult steps to increase collections including introducing prepaid
meters and requiring citizens to pay their bills before receiving public services. These
actions were targeted to the most able to pay and will not affect the supply of electricity
services to the most vulnerable parts of the population. The PEA is investigating
introducing a rising block tariff and no families will have their power disconnected for
failure to pay. The PA will continue both of these measures over the next three years and
hopes to distribute more than 100,000 meters by the end of 2011.

Prior Action 3: Establishment of the Northern Electric Distribution.

Collecting utility revenues is only half the equation. Once they are collected they must be
used to pay for the electricity that is distributed to the consumers. Currently, much of the
electricity in the West Bank is distributed by villages or municipalities and not
independent power companies. Some of the municipalities use the revenue collected for
electricity to fund their municipal operations instead of paying the IEC or investing to
improve service. To recoup these funds, the PA has established electric distribution
companies that will operate as commercial entities, independent of the municipalities that
own them.     This aimed at improving efficiency, raise collection rates and increase
investment in the sector. The PA recently established a distribution company in the
northern West Bank to join distribution companies that cover the rest of the territory.
Now the regional utilities must produce action plans to encourage local governments to
give up electricity distribution and transfer their distribution operations to the new
commercial companies. In addition, the electric utilities must begin to operate on a fully


                                               4

commercial basis. While it is expected that the utilities will be net providers of funding to
the local governments who own them, such payments should be made only after the
utilities have paid for the power they distribute and made necessary investments. In the
coming two years, the PA must take steps to ensure that independent audits verify that the
electric utilities are in fact operating on a commercial basis.

Prior Action 4: Verification of 4,500 households in the targeting database for social
assistance and initiation by the Ministry of Social Affairs of regular assistance payments
to 2,100 households verified in the targeting database through the new social safety net
pilot program.

As the PA institutes mechanisms to improve collection of utility bills, it is essential to
ensure that the most vulnerable groups in society are protected and receive assistance. To
more effectively target assistance, the PA developed a database of households meeting
acceptable social security criteria by conducting a program of verification visits to
households.      At the beginning of the project The Ministry of Social Affairs had
successfully entered 4,500 households that meet acceptable needs criteria. In addition,
the Ministry is using the new targeting data base to make cash assistance payments to
2,100 households through their pilot program to improve the social safety net. At the
beginning of the DPG project, these programs had not gone beyond the testing phase.
But they are now moving ahead at an increasing rate and in 2008, they added more than
the 5,000 households a month targeted in the PRDP. The database and system of
payments being piloted will be used to establish a national PA administered social safety
net that rationalizes the various cash assistance programs from different donors and
organizations in order to make optimum use of existing resources.

        ii). Improving Public Financial Management

Improved public financial management and greater transparency is necessary to not only
increase government's efficiency, but to attract donor support for untied budget support.
This is a top priority for the PRDP as well as for the PRDP DPG. The program involves
both local and central government operations and begins with re-establishing basic
controls and moves on to developing a system of internal and external audits. Producing
annual budgets in a transparent manner is a key component.

Prior Action 5: Establishment of a "Unified Chart of Accounts" for municipalities and
finalization of a budget manual and fixed assets registration manual that are being used
by municipalities in the West Bank.

Reducing net lending will also require the PA to improve local government finances. To
wean local governments from their dependence on utility fees, they will have to improve
their efficiency and develop alternate sources of revenue. The PRDP DPG supported the
first step in this process, which was to improve local government financial management
and increase transparency. Improving local government financial management is not only


                                                5

important for reducing net lending, but is also a key component of the PRDP DPG's other
main pillar improving public financial management. Once municipalities are producing
clear accounts and well planned budgets, consideration will be given to options to
develop their revenue base by devolving tax collection from the central government to
local governments and developing new sources of revenues.

Prior Action 6:      Approval of the 2008 budget by the cabinet of the PA and
commencement of publication of monthly expenditure and revenue statements by the
MOF.

A fully developed budget is the Caretaker Government's guiding document and is critical
for transparency. Without a comprehensive budget, government agencies can neither
plan nor deliver effective services. At the same time, the budget must be made available
so that the public knows the government's priorities and how resources are allocated so it
can hold the government accountable for achieving its stated goals. To effectively
monitor the government's actions, it is necessary that the Caretaker Government publish
timely fiscal reports. As a result of the recent political turmoil, the PA did not produce a
2006 budget and only produced the 2007 budget at the end of the year. However, the
Caretaker Government published the 2008 budget and began producing monthly reports
on the execution of the budget by the 15th of each month.               Going forward, the
Government must improve its budgeting process to develop a better link between the
budget and the PRDP. An important first step is to develop a combined presentation of
recurrent and development budgets for all line ministries.

Prior Action 7: Passing of amendments to the Basic Law (Law No. 7 of 1998 on Budget
and Financial Matters) establishing an "Accountant General Department" (General
Accounting Department) in the Ministry of Finance.

Most of the PA's accounting activities were located in Gaza and they were not unified
under one office. As a result the Minister had numerous direct reports and there was no
official responsible for managing the government's accounts. The PA established a
General Accounting Department in the West Bank that will oversee all accounting
activities for the PA.   This is the first step in a range of reforms to improve the
accounting systems, including the establishment of commitment controls, stronger
payroll controls, annual cash plans, and robust financial statements. The new department
will also take steps to improve the effectiveness of cash management in the central
treasury account.

Prior Action 8: Launch of a new computerized accounting system in the MOF.

The PA has committed to improve the accounting systems that will allow a decentralized
system of budget execution throughout the government. The first step has been to
develop a computerized accounting system to replace the system formally operating in
Gaza. The system has been developed in the MOF to improve the control and reporting


                                             6

of the payments process. It will eventually be used to improve commitment control and
cash flow management and will allow the MoF to decentralize large elements of budget
execution across ministries without putting the integrity of the government's finances at
risk. A recent review by IMF PFM experts concluded that the system works well and
meets the current needs of the PA; however, more work needed to be done to document
how the system would be used to perform regular accounting functions. The next steps
are to prepare manuals for the system and then roll it out to the rest of the line ministries,
starting with the Ministries of Health, and Education. Once the automated system is in
place, the PA will be better placed to advance the PFM improvements described in the
PRDP and the policy matrix.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)

The policy areas were not revised during the life of the project.

1.6 Other significant changes

There were no significant changes made to the project from the design stage to
completion of the operation.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)

The Legal Opinion was received on June 9, 2008 and the Trust Fund Grant Agreement
was made effective on the same date.

     Tranche #             Amount            Expected         Actual Release             Release
                                           Release Date            Date
      Tranche 1        US$40 million      6/24/2008          6/24/2008            Regular

The conditions for release of the tranche were conditions for Board presentation and were
therefore met at Board presentation.

                                                 Tranche 1
 Conditions   List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                        Status
      1       Initiate civil service reforms to bring public sector payroll to levels   Met
              compatible with the fiscal targets of the PRDP for the period 2008-
              2010
      2       Initiate a program to gradually reduce net lending associated with        Met
              the cost of provision of electricity services.
      3       Establishment of the Northern Electric Distribution                       Met
      4       Verification of 4,500 households in the targeting database for social     Met
              assistance and initiation by the Ministry of Social Affairs of regular
              assistance payments to 2,100 households verified in the targeting
              database through the new social safety net pilot program.
      5       Establishment of a "Unified Chart of Accounts" for municipalities         Met
              and finalization of a budget manual and fixed assets registration
              manual that are being used by municipalities in the West Bank.



                                                      7

     6       Approval of the 2008 budget by the cabinet of the PA and          Met
             commencement of publication of monthly expenditure and revenue
             statements by the MOF.
     7       Passing of amendments to the Basic Law (Law No. 7 of 1998 on      Met
             Budget and Financial Matters) establishing an "Accountant General
             Department" (General Accounting Department) in the Ministry of
             Finance.
     8       Launch of a new computerized accounting system in the MOF.        Met



2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

Despite an extremely challenging environment, the PA has been making steady progress
on implementing the PRDP. The Caretaker Government has been particularly focusing
on strengthening its fiscal position and improving its public financial management, the
two areas supported by the PRDP DPG. They have had remarkable success as evidenced
by the fall of the recurrent deficit by about 4.5 percent of GDP in one year.

But there have been a number of factors that have made implementation of the PRDP
difficult. Foremost is the fact that the Government of Israel (GOI) has not significantly
loosened its system of movement and economic restrictions on the Palestinian population
in the West Bank, which has prevented the private sector from growing. In fact, the GOI
continues to actively promote the expansion of settlements along with their attendant
security, and movement and access restrictions for Palestinians.

Palestinian political divisions have also been a significant challenge. The PRPD is the
plan of the PA Caretaker Government in Ramallah and is not recognized by the Hamas
government in Gaza, where the situation remains complicated and unclear. Hamas retains
complete control of security of Gaza however the Caretaker government continues to
provide most of the basic government services and makes a substantial share of its
expenditures there. At the same time the Israelis have maintained their strict blockade of
Gaza and there is continued fighting between Hamas forces and the Israelis. The fighting
culminated with an Israeli ground invasion in December of 2008 that resulted in
substantial loss of life and property destruction. These factors have made it impossible to
extend many of the PRDP reforms to Gaza and have been a large drain on the PA's
resources.

In addition to the continued Israeli restrictions and the situation in Gaza, the PA has been
hampered in its efforts to implement the PRDP by the lack of predictability in donor
funding. While the donors have been exceptionally generous ­ budget support alone was
nearly 80% higher in 2008 than in 2007 ­ the timing of the aid has been uncertain. The
PA is forced to survive from month to month, never knowing when aid will be received,
which makes it difficult to plan.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

The PA's progress on implementation of the reforms supported by the PRDP DPG was
closely monitored by the IMF, World Bank and the PA. The Bank run multi-donor trust


                                                 8

fund (PRDP TF) that also supports the PRDP, requires the PA to report on progress
quarterly and for those reports to be reviewed by the IMF and the Bank. Because the
PRDP TF supports the same reforms as the DPG, this was essentially a mechanism for
monitoring the effectiveness of the DPG. The monitoring framework is laid out in the
policy matrix and it identified clear and measurable outcome indicators of reform
implementation. For example the wage bill is the single biggest expense for the PA and
thus the size of the work force is one of the most important indicators. Net lending is
another important expense. Consequently, the framework monitors not only the size of
net lending flows, but also structural factors including the number of installed prepaid
meters, the number of local governments that have joined the new commercial companies
and PA regulations designed to increase collection rates. In addition, the PA, in
cooperation with the IMF, prepared detailed quarterly reports on the fiscal position of the
PA. Since the DPG's main focus was on strengthening the PA's fiscal position, these
reports were essential elements of the M&E structure.

Initially, the PA reporting system was hampered by the lack of experienced personnel in
the ministries as well as a lack of communications between the Ministry of Finance, who
prepared the reports and the line ministries who provided information. This weakness
was not clearly identified in the design of the project. Consequently, the field based
World Bank team has worked closely with the Ministry of Finance to develop its capacity
and over the past year, the reporting has substantially improved in accuracy. In addition,
the indicators have been revised to better reflect reform progress.        M&E was also
hindered by the restrictions on access to Gaza, which made it difficult for the PA to
gather detailed information on the implementation of reforms in Gaza. Follow on DPGs
will benefit from the experience gained in monitoring this first DPG. In addition, the
Ministry of Planning is establishing a special M&E unit to monitor implementation of the
PRDP more generally and their reports will benefit the next PRDP DPG.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

Given the government's successful achievements under the PRDP DPG I, the Bank has
prepared a follow up operation, in response to a further request from the government.
The PRDP DPG II will continue to support the PA as it implements the Palestinian Reform and
Development Plan (PRDP). Like the PRDP DPG I, PRDP DPG II will focus its support in the
two areas: (i) strengthening the PA's fiscal position; and (ii) improving public financial
management. The PRDP DPG II was presented to the Bank's Board on May 28, 2009.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Since WBG is not a member country there is no Country Assistance Strategy. Instead the
Bank relies on strategy notes to guide its work and keep the Executive Directors informed
on activities. The latest strategy note was developed simultaneously with the preparation
of the PRDP DPG, therefore the two are fully aligned.




                                             9

The main effort of the Bank's new strategy is to support the PA's implementation of the
PRDP. The PRDP's success depends upon three critical factors: (i) the PA effectively
carrying out promised reforms; (ii) GOI relaxing the closure regime to allow private
sector growth; and (iii) the international donor community providing full support for the
PA's recurrent budget. There is little the Bank can do on the second factor, which is a
purely political problem. Consequently the Bank is focusing its efforts on the first and
third factors. The Bank is providing significant amounts of technical assistance to help
the PA implement its reforms. Through its ongoing policy dialogue it is providing the
government with advice and encouragement to remain on track.

The Bank's most effective efforts for supporting the PRDP are directed at encouraging
donors to provide untied funds for the recurrent budget. This allows the PA to continue
developing the institutions necessary to provide critical services to the Palestinian people.
The Bank has established the PRDP multi-donor Trust Fund (PRDP-TF) that provides
mechanism for donors to channel untied budget support to the PA in a way that they can
be assured it will be linked to reforms and its use closely monitored. In addition, the
Bank and the IMF produce quarterly reports on reform progress that provides donors
comfort to increase their support through the Central Treasury Account (CTA).

A critical element of encouraging donors to provide untied budget support is that the
Bank is providing its own budget support through the CTA. The DPG assures donors
that the PA's fiduciary controls are adequate and that the PA reform process is on track.
The DPG is targeted at supporting reforms in the most pressing areas: fiscal
strengthening and improvements in public financial management. Reforms in these areas
are necessary not only to attract donor funding but to assure the very survival of the PA.

The Bank has only a limited budget with which to support the PA and therefore a key
part of the Bank's strategy is to impact by leveraging other donor funding. The PRDP
DPG has been highly successful in this respect. The US$40 million in Bank money has
been accompanied by more than US$280 million through the PRDP-TF since mid-2008.
The PRDP-DPG is also aligned with the Bank's global priorities. Budget support helps
build institutions that are capable of delivering services to help the poor, while, the
specific focus on public financial management (PFM) issues reflects the Bank's global
efforts on governance.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

The PA has been enormously successful in strengthening its fiscal position; an
achievement that is all the more impressive given the challenging political environment
in which it is operating. The PA has successfully reduced its recurrent deficit on a
commitment basis from 23.8 % in 2007 to 19.4 % in 2008 and is on track for a further
reduction in 2009 to about 18%. This has been the direct result of reforms to control the
wage bill and net lending supported by the PRDP DPG.

The Caretaker Government initiated reforms to control the size of the public sector work
force and set a limit of 153,000. At the end of 2008, they had in fact been able to hold
the number of workers to below 143,000. In 2005 the government had given substantial


                                            10

raises before leaving office, and consequently the average pay of PA employees was 10-
15% above the average wage in the private sector. Therefore, the Caretaker Government
also committed to make no general pay increases for public sector employees.           The
overall impact of these actions was to reduce the wage bill for the year by 2% more than
forecast in the budget ­ a fall from 24.3% of GDP in 2007 to 22.4% in 2008. Since the
wage bill accounts for more than 50% of government expenditures this had a large impact
on the PA's fiscal situation.

The second important factor in the falling deficit was the 27% reduction in net lending
expenditures. The PA instituted a number of measures to increase utility collections and
increase payments to the Israeli Electricity Company. Measures included the installation
of pre-paid meters and the requirements of "certificates of payment" (COP). These
factors combined with the establishment of new commercial distribution companies
resulted in the reduction of net lending. However, net lending did not fall as much as
anticipated and the 2008 total was still some 17% higher than budgeted. This can be
traced to a combination of factors. First, fuel prices spiked in the first half of the year
causing the price of electricity from Israel and fuel for the Gaza power plant to rise. In
addition, municipalities were slow to shift their power distribution services to the new
commercial companies. Consequently, the PA will seek to take expanded measures next
year.

The second area of the project's focus was on improving PFM. Here too the PA made
important, if less remarkable, progress. In 2008, the PA operationalized the office of the
general accountant and continued to publicly disseminate monthly statements on fiscal
activities in a timely manner. The Ministry of Finance also prepared a design paper for
the new computerized accounting system and amended the financial regulations to
support the new system. These steps along with a general improvement in the controls of
the system have allowed the PA to progress with the linking of line ministries to the new
system, which will allow the PA to decentralize elements of budget management from the
Ministry of Finance while retaining necessary controls.

The PA continued to strengthen its budget process and the Ministry of Finance presented
combined development and recurrent budgets for the 2009 budget law. The presentation
utilized a programmatic structure and is an important milestone in the eventual move to
program budgeting. Internal audit capabilities were strengthened and the internal audit
department produced six audits in the last half of the year. WBG is one of the most
decentralized governments in the world and the local governments have the responsibility
to provide many services. Thus, improving local government PFM is also important. The
Municipal finance Development Loan Fund, finalized a pilot FMIS for municipalities,
which is now being installed in all major municipalities.

The combined actions on PFM have resulted in government activities being more
transparent to the public and have allowed the government to better control its
expenditures. The improvements also help explain the high level of donor aid that
flowed into the PA's CTA. Even the United States, for the first time ever, gave direct
budget support to the PA and provided nearly US$150 million. The DPG's concentration



                                             11

on PFM issues has been highly successful in the goal of mobilizing donor support for the
PA.

The DPG also supported a successful effort to improve the social safety net system. The
PA has a number of disparate systems of providing cash assistance to vulnerable
households. The DPG supported the expansion of the social safety net targeting database.
This database requires physical inspections of households to verify their poverty level
using a set of proxy variables. More than 32,000 households have now been entered into
the database and the database is being used to provide cash assistance to 5,000 of them.
The stage is now set to merge all cash assistance programs and use the targeting data base
as the method for selecting who receives funds. In addition to improving the efficiency
of the social safety net, this would also help the PA's fiscal position.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The PA has been highly successful in strengthening its fiscal position, which was the first
component of the reform plan supported by the DPG.              The 4.5% reduction in the
recurrent deficit in one year is a remarkable achievement for any government, let alone
one in as difficult position as the PA. The deficit fell by nearly 2% more than forecast
despite the fact that GDP growth was lower than expected and inflation was higher than
expected. The fall in the deficit is attributable to the fact that the PA has successfully
controlled its wage bill. The PA has reduced its work force, not given any wage
increases and the wage bill for the full year was below the budget target. This is even
more remarkable given the difficult political environment.

Net lending also decreased substantially. Though it did not fall as much as targeted in the
budget it still came down by more than a quarter. The PA has taken many difficult steps
to maintain its reforms including defending the COP program in court and steadily
distributing pre-paid meters. Municipalities have been slow to join the distribution
companies, but the PA is moving aggressively to resolve this issue through a new
electricity law.

PFM reforms have been less visible but have nevertheless been steady. The PA is
regularly publishing clear monthly accounts and in the coming years will make the
accounts more detailed. Most importantly, the PA presented a 2009 budget on schedule
that holds to the fiscal discipline and presents combined recurrent and development
expenditures. The PA continues to make progress on improving the accounts of
municipalities through the MDLF's program.

The PA has also made progress on the targeting database although more limited progress
was made on pension reform or on merging the social safety net payment systems. But it
must be noted that, while they are medium term goals of the PA, the Prime Minister
specifically indicated that he could not address these issues in the first year of the PRDP
and the PA would move on them later in the PRDP cycle. Thus, the success of the DPG



                                             12

should be judged on the short tem goals agreed to for 2008. Under these criteria, the
reforms supported by the DPG have been successful.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
As mentioned above, the PA continues to make progress on improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of its social safety net and specifically its cash assistance programs. It has
issued a decree to unify the major cash assistance programs and ensure that all assistance
is directed to households that are in the targeting database. These actions will have a
significant effect on alleviating poverty in WBG. The fact that the PA is again regularly
paying salaries and has paid its arrears has had an even larger impact on poverty.
However, despite these actions poverty rates in Gaza have continued to rise because of
the ongoing conflict. In the West Bank poverty rates have fallen only slightly due to the
lack of substantial economic growth.

This project did not specifically target gender issues. However, as with all Bank projects,
gender issues are mainstreamed in the project. Many of the poorest households are
headed by women and thus making the social safety net targeting system more accurate
has helped ensure better gender equity in the receipt of household assistance.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The use of the CTA instead of having donors fund government services directly has
forced the PA to develop its own government infrastructure for delivering services. The
Ministry of Finance in particular, has made important gains.            It has improved its
budgeting process, its controls on the payment process and its ability to provide public
information on the fiscal position. In addition, it is beginning to develop its internal audit
capabilities.

In addition to the Ministry of Finance, the Palestinian Energy and Natural Resources
Authority, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Planning have developed
their capacity in response to the demands of the PRDP DPG.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)



3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not Applicable.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

WBG remains a high risk country. There is open conflict in Gaza and a constant risk of
renewed conflict in the West Bank. Success of the PRDP depends upon continued
support by donors and the global financial crisis, and recession in many countries


                                             13

suggests that future support will not be as generous as last years. In addition, the need for
reconstruction in Gaza will draw funds away from the budget support needed to maintain
and continue to build PA institutions.

Long term success depends upon a robust private sector that can provide the jobs needed
by a growing population and supply the tax revenue required to fund the PA. However,
private sector growth is dependent upon a reduction in the security and economic
restrictions imposed by GOI. There is no indication that the GOI plans any significant,
improvements and the Palestinian productive base continues to hollow out. Thus, long
term success of the PRDP remains problematic.

There is also significant political risk to the PA itself. Unless there is movement on the
peace process or reconciliation with the Hamas government in Gaza, there is a
considerable risk that the current PA government could collapse or cease to function. If it
were replaced with a Hamas led government, donors would certainly once again cutoff
funding endangering many of the institutions developed with the support of the PRDP
DPG.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank carefully designed the PRDP DPG in close consultation with both the PA and
other stake holders such as civil society and international donors. The focus on fiscal
strengthening and PFM reforms has proven well founded as evidenced by the success of
the PRDP TF in raising substantial donations from a variety of donors. The PRDP TF
has so far disbursed more than US$280 million and in 2008, the DPG and the PRDP TF
accounted for nearly 16% of all aid inflows to the PA.

The team was candid about the severe risks facing the PA's efforts to implement the
PRDP and in turn for the success of the DPG. Chief among them was a renewal of
violence in the West Bank or a deterioration of the situation in Gaza. While the West
Bank has remained calm, the situation in Gaza has gone from bad to worse with the
recent December 2008 Israeli ground invasion. However, the DPG was designed in full
recognition of the risks and did not attempt to over reach or ask the PA to promise more
than it could. In fact, the PA made it explicit that the policy matrix did not contain all
that it would like to do, but rather all that it could reasonably commit to.

The DPG design gave close attention to monitoring and evaluation arrangements. Untied
budget support carries with it the implicit risk that the funds can be diverted from their
intended use. This is all the more likely in the highly unstable political environment that
prevails in WBG. Consequently, the team built in quarterly monitoring that was related
to the PRDP TF disbursements. The DPG design also called for the management team to
be in the local country office and to include a PFM expert who could maintain daily


                                                 14

contact with the PA.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

As mentioned above, the design of the DPG emphasized monitoring and evaluation of the
reforms supported by the DPG. In such a volatile political environment there was a
substantial risk that reforms could quickly come off track and damage the reputation of
both the Bank and the donors who supported the PRDP TF.

The supervision team moved to the country office at the beginning of the project where
they could closely monitor the actions of the PA and maintain almost daily contact with
their counterparts. The DPG policy matrix is used to guide the regular assessments on
implementation of the PRDP as demanded by the PRDP TF. Consequently, the team
provided quarterly written reports that are publicly available on the Bank web site
assessing progress. Instances where the reforms appeared to come off track or the PA
needed assistance to achieve its goals were quickly identified by the DPG team. The
reports were accurate and candid and identified in writing where the PA was both lagging
and surpassing its goals.

The supervision was not limited to just the targets in the DPG policy matrix. It looked at
PRDP implementation as a whole, and consequently had a focus on overall development
impact. If one target was not met, but the PA moved towards its development goal in
another way, it was recognized.             Likewise, if the PA accomplished its stated
commitments in the policy matrix, yet was off track on achieving its stated development
objectives, this was also identified.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Both quality at entry and quality of supervision were satisfactory and thus the overall
Bank performance rating is satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The reform program supported by the DPG was drawn directly from the government's
own medium term development plan. This program truly reflects the Government's and
not the donors' priorities. Consequently, the government feels strong ownership of both
the plan and the reforms supported by the DPG. The Plan was developed quickly, but
with wide spread consultations among all stakeholders. This is evidenced by the fact that
a year after its publication it is still guiding government policy and is generally accepted
as the Government's medium term development plan by all stakeholders.



                                               15

Despite the challenging environment, the PA has made significant progress on
implementing the reforms supported by the PRDP DPG and are continuing to push ahead
with the PRPD. As mentioned above, the most notable achievement has been the
reduction of the budget deficit, which was brought about by controlling the size of the
public sector work force and reducing net lending. The PA has also made important
improvements in public financial management.

However, the government's efforts are substantially hampered by the ongoing occupation
and continuing political crisis. Many of the Palestinian legislators remain in Israeli
prisons. Thus, the legislative council (PLC) cannot meet to pass legislation that is critical
to reform. Currently, all laws are passed by presidential decree. But because these can
be reversed once the PLC resumes meeting, the president issues decrees sparingly. This
has been a major impediment to pursuing the reform agenda. The situation in Gaza is
also a major impediment. The PA is able to fully implement the reforms only in the West
Bank where it retains full political control.        The PRDP has only been partially
implemented in Gaza where Hamas controls the security environment and much of the
government. However, it must be noted that the PA never committed to implementing
the PRPD in Gaza until the government was reunified. Thus, the fact that some progress
has been made in Gaza is to the PA's credit. It is difficult to build consensus on national
reforms when a large part of the future country is cut off.

The PA has established a system to monitor and report on its progress. They publish
monthly reports on the government accounts on the internet and quarterly reports on
reforms. In addition, the PA actively participates in a local aid coordination process
involving a variety of sector working groups, where all stakeholders discuss reform
efforts. The Fiscal Sector Working Group, Economic Strategy Group and Governance
Strategy Group are the most important. In addition, the PA makes quarterly progress
reports to the World Bank team on its progress on the reforms supported by the PRDP TF
and PRDP DPG. The quarterly reports sometimes lack clarity and do not contain all of
the required information. However, the World Bank team has been working with the
Ministry of Finance to strengthen the quarterly reports.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

This operation was budget support. Consequently the implementing agency was the
government, which is discussed above.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Despite the many impediments and the highly unstable political environment, the PA has
consistently delivered on its commitment to reform. They have not strayed from the
PRDP agenda and are poised to continue reforms at an accelerated rate. Thus, the project
is rated satisfactory.


                                             16

6. Lessons Learned

The success of the PRDP DPG has provided a number of important lessons for future
Bank operations. First and foremost is that for budget support operations to be successful,
they must support the Government's agenda and not an agenda imposed from outside.
The DPG directly supported the PRDP that was formulated by the PA after extensive
consultations with a wide variety of stakeholders including government agencies, civil
society and donors. Thus, there has been strong buy in from all parties and the reforms
supported by the DPG have been successfully implemented.

The success can be traced to the realistic scope and timing of the reform agenda. The
Palestinians are attempting to build a state from scratch while under occupation. There is
an extensive agenda of pressing reforms. However, the PA has only a limited ability to
implement reforms. Thus, the PA, in consultation with donors, has narrowed their efforts
to the most critical reforms that are also attainable. As the reform process progresses and
the Government builds strength, the agenda will become more ambitious. Reaching too
far, too fast, could doom the reform process. Thus, successful policy lending must take
into account the political realities faced by the government and requires careful timing
and targeting of critical reforms.

A third lesson is that World Bank budget support has the ability to leverage large
amounts of other donor funds. The Bank has a limited resource envelope for WBG.
Consequently, it seeks to induce other donors to support areas that it feels are most
important. Generally most donors are hesitant to provide untied budget support to the PA
because of the actions of previous governments. However, donors have stated that the
Bank's willingness to provide its own funds and to closely monitor the PA's activities has
encouraged them to risk their own funds. The PDPR TF alone has provided the PA with
over US$280 million and much more has been contributed directly to the CTA, and the
Bank's DPG has been an important reason for the donor community's generosity.

Another clear lesson has been the importance of having the Bank's task team resident in
the WBG country office.        In fragile and conflict states, the situation is constantly
changing and government priorities shift rapidly. Therefore, it is necessary to maintain a
constant dialogue with government counterparts, which requires the task team to be
present in the country. The previous budget support operation in WBG suffered because
it was managed from headquarters.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

In their assessment the PA raised a number of issues. The first was the fact that the
PRDP was based upon optimistic assumptions that the donors would continue to provide
generous financing and that the GOI would reduce their restrictions as security improved.
In 2008, the donors responded with even more aid than had been requested and thus the
PA was able to pay back arrears and implement their reforms. However, there has been
no substantial relaxation of Israeli restrictions and consequently the desired private sector
growth has not occurred.       The PA then argues that progress was made on fiscal


                                              17

strengthening only because they shifted to a strategy based on community development.
It is clear that the GOI did not significantly relax restrictions, which caused private sector
growth to stagnate. But the Bank believes that the fiscal improvement came from tight
controls of public employment and efforts to reduce net lending and not from a shift in
development strategy. It is also evident that, as pointed out in the PA's assessment, if aid
levels are not sustained the PA will have difficulty sustaining its reform program in the
coming year.

The PA indicated that because it has little control over the economic and political
environment, implementation of its reform program has to be highly flexible. This is self
evident and the DPG policy matrix was specifically designed to take this into account.
The success that the PA has had is all the more remarkable because of the difficult
environment and the fact that they have such little control over it.

The PA assessment also indicates the importance of World Bank technical assistance in
helping them implement their reform program. The assessment makes clear the value the
PA places on a continued and close engagement with the Bank's technical team. But it
also indicates where the PA feels the Bank's technical assistance have fallen short. They
point out the on-going institutional review of the pension system as failing to build on
previous analysis. However, because of the political sensitivity of the pension issue it has
been difficult to sustain a dialogue on it. The pension team is currently moving to
quickly complete its review including incorporating the lessons from the past work.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                              18

Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

          Names                            Title                  Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
John L. Nasir             Senior Economist                       MNSED    TTL
Kirsten Burghardt Propst  Counsel                                LEGEM    Legal
Julie Rieger              E T Consultant                         LEGEM    Legal
Eileen Murray             Lead Operations Officer                MNSHD    Human Development
Meskerem Brhane           Senior Social Development Specialist   MNSSD    Social Development
Hisham Waly               Senior Financial Management Specialist MNAFM    FM
Suhair Musa               Financial Management Specialist       MNAFM     FM
Hyacinth Brown            Senior Finance Officer                 LOAFC    Disbursement
David Freese              Senior Finance Officer                 LOAFC    Disbursement
Rory O'Sullivan           Consultant                             MNC04
Roleen Qadamani           Administrative Assistant               MNC04    Assistant
Steve W. Wan Yan Lun      Operations Analyst                     MNSED    Operations
Supervision
John L. Nasir             Senior Economist                       MNSED     TTL
Mark Ahern                Senior Economist                       MNSED     PFM
Roleen Qadamani           Administrative Assistant                MNC04    Assistant
Steve W. Wan Yan Lun      Operations Analyst                     MNSED     Operations



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
               Stage
                                         No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY08                                            1                           2.31
                            Total:                1                           2.31
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                           10                          39.50
                            Total:               10                          39.50




                                              19

Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                    20

Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                  21

Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                  Evaluation of the DPG "Development Policy Grant"
                          By the Palestinian National Authority


Project background, design and objectives:

When the Caretaker Government headed by Dr. Salam Fayyad was appointed in June
2007, the Government faced a large deficit and a significant stock of arrears to PNA
employees, and private sector suppliers.. Therefore, the Government was determined to
move aggressively toward strengthening the PNA`s fiscal position, and improving public
financial management. To achieve this objective it initiated the Palestinian Reform and
Development Plan (PRDP) in the fall of 2007 December 2007. The plan was built from
the ground up with broad participation of line ministries, and was presented at the Paris
Conference in December 2007. The international community fully endorsed it, pledging
$ 7 billion over a three year period, which exceeded PNA financing expectations.

The PNA requested much of the aid in unrestricted budget support in order to achieve its
goal toward strengthening its fiscal position, and improving its financial management The
World Bank responded positively and established the Multi-Donor Trust Fund "PRDP-
TF". It also mobilized the donors to use this TF to provide the PNA with untied budget
support through its own Central Treasury Account (CTA). The Bank has also provided
direct budget support through the Development Policy Grant "DPG". The grant helped
finance the PNA recurrent expenditures deficit and, because of its demonstration effect
with other donors, encouraged them to contribute financing to the CTA as well.

The main objective of the Trust Fund was to facilitate the flow of budgetary support to
the PNA by enhancing accountability and developing the financial administration of the
PNA within the broader framework of national reform. Disbursements from the TF were
made in compliance with specific prior actions which had been outlined in the project
Policy Matrix. These prior actions were formulated by the Ministry of Finance in
consultation with the Bank and aimed at adopting specific reforms to move forward
toward fiscal sustainability. The measures also aimed at increasing government
transparency and accountability through improved Public Financial Information System
(see below). The PNA believes that such comprehensive Bank involvement helped
mobilize otherwise reluctant donors to support the PNA reform plan and provide budget
support.

PNA Performance:

Despite all the obstacles facing the PNA, especially the continued deterioration in the
political environment and intensification of Israeli restrictions on movement and access
the PNA has succeeded in reducing its fiscal deficit in 2008 by five percentage points of




                                             22

GDP while maintaining a consistent level of expenditure and investment in the social
sectors, and promoting a more investor friendly environment for the private sector.

In January 2008, MOF established a new Public Financial Management System (PFMS).
Under this PFMS all domestic revenues, clearance revenues, fees, charges, and income
have accrued from ministries and autonomous agencies, to the CTA. This system has also
provided tighter controls on expenditures, by recording all expenditure operations,
checking them against budgetary appropriations, and internal financial controls.

An essential component of the PFMS was restructuring the Ministry of Finance,
including the establishment of the General Accounting Department "GAD" and a new
Budget Department in the West Bank. It also, re-launched the MOF website on much
firmer grounds and on a predetermined schedule, issuing fiscal data on the 15th of each
month, and posting analytical fiscal reports on a quarterly basis.

In term of financing, both for budget support and for development expenditures, the CTA
system has provided robust financial controls, a centralized monitoring of development
expenditures and full accounting of this external assistance. However, most development
expenditures continue to be funded outside the CTA, causing a troubling gap in the
accuracy of reporting on the financial disbursements for development projects and gross
public capital formation.

The PNA has also promoted reforms in the social sphere by better targeting social
assistance. This included a full updating of its database to support a more transparent and
objective identification of beneficiaries. The PNA has also initiated a process of merging
the various on-going cash assistance programs using the (MOSA) poverty targeting
database as the main mechanism for streamlining the cash assistance program across the
various donor institutions (EU, and UN organizations).

Outcome of the reforms against agreed objectives:

Prior actions which have been laid out in the PRDP-Policy Matrix, and highlighted in its
Letter of Development Policy (LDP), focussed on two policy areas supported by the
grant: (1) strengthening the PNA fiscal position and (2) improving public financial
management.

    1) Strengthening the fiscal position:

Wage Bill:

The PNA has managed to control the wage bill by dismissing workers hired illegally by
the previous government and updating the current employment roll to weed out shadow
workers. As a result, the public work force was reduced from over 160,000 in mid 2007
to 142,937 by end December 2008. In addition, consistent with reforms stated in the
PRDP to achieve fiscal sustainability, MOF has frozen general salary increases in 2008




                                            23

and limited growth of public sector employment to 3,000 for the whole year, primarily
for the education and health sectors.

Public Pension System:

The public pension system is not sustainable financially. During 2008 the PNA, in
collaboration with Bank technical staff, has launched a thorough institutional review of
the pension system, with a view to establishing appropriate arrangements and plans for
reforms that will ensure its fiscal sustainability, while maintaining a reasonable level of
social protection for pensioners. To this end MOF and the Bank have worked on
formulating short term options for pension system reform. The PNA is awaiting
quantification of the impact of short term options, to be conducted by WB staff, which
will assist Palestinian decision makers in picking the appropriate options and defining the
an action plan. In this respect, a number of institutional reforms were adopted to pave the
way for the action plan:

      The General Pension Committee (GPC) has become operational as an
        independent entity, and its board of directors has been appointed.
      All PNA civil servants files have been moved from the MOF to the GPC
        administration.
      The GPC has also unified the 2% pension scheme with the 10% scheme.

Net Lending:

In order to reduce "net lending" from US$535 million in 2007 to US $ 400 million in
2009, the PNA has taken actions to increase collection rates, in parallel with reducing
debt to the IEC and strengthening the institutional environment for electricity distribution
and bill collection.

 A) Increasing collection performance

The MOF has started working with local government officials to increase the collection
rate in the West Bank by 75%, and payments to the IEC by 50%. To achieve these
targets MoF has taken the following measures:

      Requiring a certificate of payment for electricity bills from subscribers when
        they seek government services
      Requesting all cities and villages to reschedule their debts to MOF.
      Each utility and municipality was requested to design an Action Plan for
        increasing bills collection. These Action Plans have been submitted to MoF
      MOF deducted certain percentages from PNA employees salaries for repayment
        of their electricity debts.
      By end 2008 the Palestinian Energy Authority (PEA) had installed more than
        55,000 prepaid meters in West Bank financed from Norway and Sweden. In
        addition, it secured funding for an additional 200,000 prepaid meters from MOF,
        France, Norway and Sweden to be installed in 2009 and 2010.


                                             24

   B) Institutional Reforms

The Electricity Law was approved by the Council of Ministers and sent to the President
for ratification. The law will have the following provisions:
      PEA will be the policy maker for the sector
      The Palestinian Electricity Regulation Council (PERC), which has been newly
        established, will regulate the sector
      The establishment of the Palestinian Transmission Company (PETL) will be
        responsible for running and managing the transmission system
      The law will vest the responsibility for bill collection with the distribution
        companies, taking it away from municipalities

To assume its bill collection responsibilities Northern Electricity Distribution Company
"NEDCO" has been officially registered in the companies' law on 14/1/2008. More than
58 cities and villages have joined the Company including the cities of Nablus, Jenin and
Tulkarem; the Company will operate independently as a commercial entity.

PEA secured financing from Norway and Sweden for the initial start-up cost of the
company and for the needed technical assistance; this should improve efficiency, raise
collection rates and increase investment in the sector. .

Social Safety Net:

The Ministry of Social Affairs "MOSA" has continued to build up the database for the
poor and verified the status of needy households at a rate of 5,000 per quarter. By the end
of 2008 about 26,290 households were vetted in the West Bank and Gaza by MOSA
social workers, raising the total number of vetted households to 40,246. About 85% of
those households vetted during the year were entered into the database by data entry staff.

Quarterly payments were provided to around 5000 beneficiary per quarter, and the forth
payment was delayed because of the lack of NIS currency in the banks in Gaza, due to
Israeli restrictions, in addition to the breakdown of the computerized system during the
war on Gaza.

To solve the system's technical problem caused by the continuous electricity cuts in
Gaza, MOSA has introduced a new server.

In order to merge the cash assistance programs by the end of 2008, as mentioned above,
the ministry has started work on training field workers, to enable them to work within the
new system.

Municipalities Financial Transparency and Accountability:

To improve municipalities and local governments' financial management, and increase
their efficiency and transparency, the Ministry of Local Government "MOLG" has




                                             25

established the Unified Chart of Accounts at the beginning of 2008, and distributed it
together with new budget forms.

In order to implement the Integrated Financial Management Information System the
MOLG has taken several actions:

     Formulated the Financial General Policy Note
     Drafted an assets valuation Methodology and Procedures Manual
     Conducted assets valuations for 8 pilot municipalities
     Conducted institutional assessment at the 8 pilot municipalities
     Selected the Financial and Information System to be used.
     Started assets valuation for the next 35 municipalities
     Conducted financial assessment for the 35 municipalities.

At the end of this process, these procedures will help local governments to produce
unified and comparable accounts as well as well designed municipal budgets.

The MOLG has also installed the Integrated Financial Management System on the 8 pilot
municipalities, which is now under testing, and expected to be operational by the
beginning of May 2009.

    2) Improving Public Financial Management (PFM):

Public Financial Management:

To improve public financial management, and promote greater transparency and
accountability MOF has re-established basic financial controls and developed a more
systematic and comprehensive system of internal and external audits. In early 2008 MoF
has amended the Budget and Finance law to enable it to carry out the full financial
reforms envisaged in the PRDP

For the first time in Palestinian public finance, the PNA has formulated a unified budget
for 2009, combining recurrent and development expenditures. Line ministries had to
articulate their policy priorities, strategic plans, objectives, and targets, within the
framework of the 30 PRDP programs. They also had to justify their requests for resources
in terms of these strategic objectives

The PNA has also taken over the responsibility of budgeting development expenditures
while the Ministry of Planning has been focussing on tracking the execution of the
development budget. In this respect, the MOP has established a monitoring and
evaluation unit to assess the development activities.

Financial Accounting System:

MOF has established a General Accounting Department (GAD) in the West Bank to
closely monitor all budgetary operations.


                                             26

The establishment of the GAD and the appointment of an Accountant General was
accompanied with some internal restructuring of the MoF, with five new departments
established under GAD :

    1. Wages and Salaries Directorate
    2. Treasury
    3. Accounting Department
    4. Cash and Debt Management.
    5. Governmental Property Department.

The Wages and Salaries Directorate, has been moved from the General Personnel
Council to the internal Financial Control department in MoF. This department is also
responsible for security personnel expenditures, which used to fall under the Security
Financial Administration. This consolidation of key expenditure centres has brought with
it much greater control over the wage bill.

New computerized accounting system:

MOF has developed a new computerized accounting system covering 95% of
expenditures with electronic linkages to budgetary appropriations and bank accounts
within the CTA, thus ensuring bank reconciliation.

By the end of 2008, 15 line ministries were connected to the system, but the system has
only been operational with the Ministry of Education., The system will become
operational in the other 14 ministries, after MOF technical staff completes the training of
ministries staff, and builds up line ministries capacity to work within the new system.

With the establishment of the Cash and Debt Management Department, the PA can
forecast cash requirements on a monthly basis. Provided the donor community responds
with timely transfers of the required budget support, in line with the unit's forecasts, this
unit can make substantial progress in minimizing the build up of payment arrears.

When the 15 ministries are fully connected to the accounting system, MoF will be able to
set up a zero cash balance system with the banks. It is expected to be operational by May
2009, after completion of the technical training for the line ministries staff.

The Internal Audit Department in MOF has completed the risk assessment, and financial
auditing for 9 departments within the Ministry: Petroleum Authority, VAT, Income Tax,
Property Tax, IT, Payroll, General Supplies, Treasury and the International Relations
Department.

Regarding financial audits outside the Ministry, by the end of 2008, the Internal Audit
Department in MOF completed audit reports for four ministries: Labour, Public Works,
Telecommunications, and Prisoners Affairs.




                                              27

Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation:

The close consultation process between the PNA, the Bank and other key donors has
contributed to a timely and orderly implementation of the reform agenda.

The Bank and IMF have jointly monitored progress on the PRDP's goals as described in
the policy matrix. The PNA has produced quarterly reports, which the Bank and IMF
have reviewed, and the Bank evaluated the progress on structural reforms while the
IMF's reviews covered fiscal and PFM issues. This quarterly monitoring and continuous
support by the Bank have provided donors with regular information and briefings. This
has strengthened the credibility of budget support and raised confidence in the PNA's
fiscal and financial reforms. This process has encouraged donors to increase their
financing through the CTA. At the same time it also contributed to the build up of PNA
capacity to achieve the desired reforms

The Bank has participated in a robust system of PNA/donor working groups particularly
on fiscal and economic issues. These groups have assisted in coordinating the activities
of the various donors on all aspects related to public financial management, budget
support and fiscal policy.

The Bank, through the PRDP-TF, has contributed in reducing the PNA fiscal gap by
providing donors an efficient mechanism to channel external budget support. This
mechanism provided the donors with assurances that their funds will be closely
monitored, which encouraged them to redirect their pledges from idle development
balances to budget support. The bank has also shown its trust in the PNA's financial
controls; when it provided the PNA with budget support through "PRDP DPG".

Lessons learned:

Five lessons can be learned from the experience in working closely with donors on
capacity building, on achieving fiscal sustainability and on attaining greater transparency
and accountability:

The PRDP was based on optimistic assumptions with respect to the easing of movement
and access and other economic restrictions imposed by GoI. Making substantial progress
towards fiscal sustainability would not have been possible, were it not for the shift in the
development strategy by the PNA towards community development projects which are
not as vulnerable to these restrictions. This shift triggered some economic growth in the
West Bank in 2008 and a 13 % increase in gross PNA revenues in NIS terms. However,
this may not be possible in 2009, unless these economic restrictions are eased and the
private sector becomes the engine of economic growth. Unless we have a revival of
economic activity, the implementation of reforms, particularly fiscal retrenchment
becomes politically more difficult.

The PNA does not control its political and economic environment due to daily IDF
incursions into Palestinian areas and the erosion of Palestinian economic space through



                                            28

the expansion of settlements. Consequently the implementation of reforms, including
prior actions may be thrown off track due to these actions. Therefore, the reform process
and implementation calendar must demonstrate a substantial degree of flexibility.

Fiscal and expenditure policy have been on track in 2008 and during the first quarter of
2009. However, donor support has fallen short of the PNA financing requirement during
the last six months by about $ 200 million. This puts the entire financial system under
stress, given that the PNA borrowing capacity from banks has been exhausted. These
financing shortfalls run the risk of derailing Public Financial Management reforms,
should payment arrears start accumulating again.

Funding of budget support has also been unpredictable and erratic from month to month.
Some coordinated scheduling of budgetary assistance among donors, with greater
consistency, would go a long way in stabilizing expectations and reducing uncertainty in
PNA's ability to pay salaries on a consistent basis.

There have been instances where Bank technical assistance has experienced
discontinuities. For instance, the on-going institutional review of the pension system does
not build upon or draw lessons from the substantial work carried out by Bank teams in
the 2003-05 periods. Here the Bank' institutional memory seems to have been lost, and
the current institutional review appears to be starting from scratch.




                                             29

Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    30

Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Program Document, dated May 6, 2008 (Report No. 43429 - GZ)
Project's Implementation Status and Results Report
WBG Economic Monitoring Note, April 2009




                                          31

