Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name:              MOROCCO - ASSET MANAGEMENT REFORM LOAN
Region:                    Middle East and North Africa
Sector:                    JA - Health (40%); JB - Other social service (40%); BC -
Central Government Administration (20%)
Project ID:                P005516
Borrower(s):               Government of Morocco
Implementing Agencies:     Direction des Domaines
Address Ministere des Finances et de la Privatisation
Quartier Administratif, Rabat, Royaume du Maroc
Contact Person: Mr. A. Chaoui-Roqai
Tel: 212-37-77-32-72       Fax: 212-37-77-92-82
Direction des Equipements Publics
Address : Ministere de l'Equipement et du Transport
Hay Nahda 11, BP 5130
Rabat, Royaume du Maroc
Contact Person: Mr. M. El Ghazi Rissouni
Tel: 212-37-76-35-03       Fax: 212-37-76-97-88
Environment Category:      C (not required)
Date PID prepared:         May 23, 2003
Auth Appr. Date:           April 4, 2002
Bank Approval Date:        June 5, 2003                        rla       I       6
1.     Background
Morocco, like many other countries, treats its public land and real estate holdings as public goods,
rather than productive assets capable of producing a mix of significant returns and social benefits
if properly managed. Yet, land and real estate typically represent 25 to 50 percent of public
entities' assets. In Morocco, the private domain of the state includes about 622,000 ha of land and
36,000 buildings, mostly under the custody of line ministries; the replacement cost of the
buildings of the ministries of health, education and higher education alone amounts to nearly 9
percent of GDP. The potential savings from improved management of this land and real asset
portfolio are significant: lessons from corporate real property management, already applied by a
number of governments, have shown that improved asset management systems generate
significant economic and efficiency gains.
One such lesson is the need for cost-effective maintenance systems for public buildings, an aspect
that has been neglected in Morocco. Priority is given to new investment, which absorbs 15
percent of the national budget (excluding defense), while maintenance accounts for less than 0.2
percent. In the Health, Education and Higher Education sectors, resources allocated to
maintenance are between 1/10 and 1/20 of the amounts needed. There are no programming or
budgeting systems for real asset maintenance. Preventive maintenance is non-existent, curative
maintenance rare, with most buildings intervention taking the form of rehabilitation. This
adversely affects the quality of public services as many public buildings, including schools,
hospitals and clinics, are in poor conditions. It is also a costly and wasteful practice: US$1 spent
on maintenance typically saves US$3 on rehabilitation.' For the Health, Education and Higher
Education sectors, the cost of foregone maintenance can be estimated at US$257 million per year.
Source: Perret, Jean : "Guide de la maintenance des batiments," Le Moniteur, Paris, 1995.
1



However, the massive increase required in maintenance budgets is not out of reach Buildings in
good condition require annual maintenance expenditures equivalent to 2 to 3 percent of
construction cost, depending on the sophistication of the building. Given the portfolio of the
health, education and higher education sectors, it implies an annual expenditure of about USD63
million. This is more than 20 times what was allocated in 2001, yet it amounts to only 3 percent
of the ministries' budget. Further, it amounts to about half what is spent annually on new
construction.
In addition to the lack of maintenance of public buildings, there is a clear need to rationalize
overall real asset management Information on the land holdings constituting the private domain
of the state is dispersed across a number of agencies. There is no central management mechanism
or easily accessible database that identifies public property, its current or potential use, or the
managing entity. Nor is there any incentive for ministries to rationalize the use of property in
their custody or return the property for which they have no direct need. Decisions to build or rent
buildings are made on an ad hoc basis, rather than based on an overall sectoral asset management
plan. Finally, a number of ministries are building on land not yet acquired, creating liabilities of
USD257 million, of which USD180 million is attributable to the Ministry of Education. This is
due in part to poor planning on the part of the ministries, but also to cumbersome and dated land
acquisition processes, which result in more than half the cases going into costly and drawn out
litigation process.
Clearly, strengthened asset management is a key component of overall expenditure rationalization
efforts. By developing ministerial asset management strategies and asset maintenance systems,
Morocco would avoid costly rehabilitations and wasteful investments. Economic savings to be
generated from this operation for the Government in the long run are, therefore, considerable.
Improved asset management is also important to improved sector performance in health and
education, particularly in rural areas where they primarily serve the poorer segments of society.
2      Objectives
In line with the CAS base case scenario, the overarching objectives of the operation are
expenditure rationalization and efficiency in the social sectors through improved asset
rationalization and management.
3.     Rationale for Bank's involvement
The Bank is one of the rare institutions to have both experience and knowledge in maintenance
issues and in public finance/sector reform. The Bank is also uniquely placed to help ensure that
the Public Asset Management Study is linked with budget reforms and results in fiscal
improvements.
4.     Description
The proposed reform operation will focus on two areas:
a)     Asset management policy reforms: The proposed project will seek to:
i) Expedite resolution and reduce settlement costs for the DH 3 billion (USD 260
million) in pending land acquisitions, most of which accumulated by the Ministry of
Education; in particular, procedures will be revised to create technical commissions that
are better suited to establish a fair and reasonable price and allow them to hear owners;
2



ii) Prevent a reconstitution of this debt by creating mechanisms to prevent construction
on unsecured land and developing incentives for ministries to release the unused or
under-utilized properties in their custody;
iii) Develop more effective instruments for the management of public lands and
buildings. This includes developing simplified and more effective sets of procedures to
govern land acquisition, management and disposal, and designing an information system
for land and public buildings that can be shared across administrations and allows for
easier monitoring of the portfolio and its current use.
b)     Buildings management system reforms:
The objective is expenditure rationalization, notably the reallocation of expenditures
between maintenance and new construction to ensure adequate maintenance of public
assets. This goal can only be reached progressively since it entails major changes in
culture and practices as well as substantial budgetary re-allocations. During the proposed
operation, the Bank will help the three participating ministries (Health, Education and
Higher Education) adopt buildings management systems and implement them fully in
one fifth of the regions (Health), academies (Education) and universities (Higher
Education)
5.     Financing
Loan amount: USD45 million equivalent to be disbursed in two tranches.
6.     Implementation
The proposed reform program will follow a simple input-output structure. In terms of input,
procedures (amicable alternative to legal expropriation, maintenance systems) have been
adopted by the Government. In the few cases where additional work is required (revised code
domanial, information systems) terms of reference have been agreed upon, resources identified
and procurement set underway prior to negotiations.
Second tranche disbursement will be conditional upon results (technical dossiers established for
pending land affairs incurred by the Ministry of Education, reduction of the backlog of affairs by
DH 600 million - equivalent to about USD 62 million - new, unified reglement des procedures
domanial adopted, information system for public domain ready for full deployment, incentives in
place for ministries not to hoard land or build on unsecured land; and buildings maintenance
systems tested, modified and ready for full deployment and satisfactorily implemented in phase I
regions), and means for the continued implementation of the program (approval by the Council
of Ministers of a Finance Law containing adequate financial provision and signed performance
contracts between MOF, line ministries and deconcentrated agencies.)
7.     Sustainability
National Asset Management Policy:
For the improvements brought by the project to be sustainable, this policy needs to be internalized
by Government and incentives created for line ministries and public agencies to release under-
utilized land under their control.
Buildings Maintenance Systems:
For the gains of the project to be sustainable, resources for maintenance must be programmed
according to selected priorities and budgeted accordingly.
3



8.     Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
Project design will reflect the experience from Road Fund Projects, which is where the issue of
improved allocation of resources across maintenance, rehabilitation, and new construction has
most systematically been addressed. Key lessons include the need to have an overall, multi-year
programming of resources across these alternative uses, which increases maintenance budgets
proportionately to the rehabilitation and new construction program.
A lesson drawn from social funds and education projects is the need to involve the community of
users in the maintenance of assets. From the BAJ, however, it was discovered that there is no
legal means at the moment of deconcentrating credits to the local (school, community) level.
From health projects, we have learnt that it is much harder to identify a community of users and
involve them in the financing and management of maintenance. This suggests that the project
design should not expect users to be heavily involved in helping maintain and rehabilitate health
facilities.
9.     Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI): No
10.    Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:      None
11.    Contact Point
Marianne Fay
Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Tel: 202-458-7200
Fax: 202-477-1993
Email: mfay(Dworldbank.org
12.    For information on other related project document, please contact:
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H StreetNW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel: 202-458-5454
Fax: 202-522-1500
Web: www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.



