                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 36067

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (TF-26129 SCL-47000)

                                             ON A

                                             LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$45.0 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                     KINGDOM MOROCCO

                                           FOR THE

                                ASSET MANAGEMENT REFORM




                                          June 29, 2006




Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure
Middle East and North Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective May 2006)

                              Currency Unit = Dirham (DH)
                                      DH 1 = US$ 0.1156
                                     US$ 1 = 8.6538 DH

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 1

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AMRL    Asset Management Reform Loan
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy (Stratégie d'assistance au pays)
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Report
GoM     Gouvernment of Morocco (Gouvernement du Maroc)
MOF     Ministry of Finance
NGO     Non Governemental Organization (Agence non-gouvernemental)
PARL    Public Administrative Reform Loan
PER     Public Expenditure Review
PHRD    Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
SECAL   Sector Adjustment Loan
SWAP    Sector Wide Approach
TA      Technical Assistance
TOR     Terms of Reference

                            Vice President:      Christiaan Poortman
                          Country Director       Theodore O. Ahlers
            Sector Director/Sector Manager       Hossein Razavi/Hedi Larbi
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Marianne Fay

                                          MOROCCO
                             ASSET MANAGEMENT REFORM


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Partner Contribution                                                    24

Project ID: P005516                                                  Project Name: MA-ASSET MANAGEMENT REFORM
Team Leader: Marianne Fay                                            TL Unit: ECAVP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: MA-ASSET MANAGEMENT REFORM                               L/C/TF Number: TF-26129; SCL-47000
   Country/Department: MOROCCO                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (40%); Other social services (40%); Central government administration (20%)
                  Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P); Public expenditure, financial management and
                            procurement (P); Other public sector governance (P); Education for all (S); Health system
                            performance (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/19/2000                                     Effective:                           08/22/2003
     Appraisal: 04/04/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/05/2003                                      Closing: 12/31/2005                 03/15/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/DIRECTION DES DOMAINES & DIRECTION
                                           DES EQUIPEMENTS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:                Hossein Razavi                                 Emmanuel Forestier
Team Leader at ICR:             Marianne Fay                                   Marianne Fay
ICR Primary Author:             Jerome F. Chevallier


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Asset Management Reform Loan (AMRL) was to support improved
efficiency in public expenditures by helping rationalize investment, maintenance and rehabilitation
expenditures in the education and health sectors, and improve public asset management. The
operation was part of a broader Bank effort to help Morocco modernize and rationalize its public
administration. The Public Expenditure Review (PER) of 2002, which was conducted in a
participatory way, raised awareness on the considerable challenges facing the Government in
improving the efficiency of public expenditure. It helped create a momentum for the reforms
needed.

The PER led to the preparation of a series of three one-tranche public administration reform loans
(PARLs), aimed at supporting the Government's public administration reform program, while
ensuring long-term fiscal sustainability. The objectives of the first loan, approved in July 2004,
were to (i) improve the efficiency of expenditure; (ii) initiate implementation of a civil service
reform; and (iii) control the unsustainable rise in the civil service wage bill.

While preparation was ongoing for the first PARL, the Bank and the Government agreed that
there was some merit in moving quickly in more discrete areas, where there was ownership in the
Ministry of Finance, and tangible benefits could be demonstrated. The unsatisfactory situation of
asset management in the education and health sectors was clearly an area in need of reform.
Together these two sectors absorbed a large amount of resources (about 35 percent of primary
expenditures), with a low level of efficiency. This was particularly the case in the management of
real assets.     Maintenance of buildings was almost non-existent.            The emphasis on new
construction led to an inefficient land acquisition and management process, accompanied by the
accumulation of large payment arrears to people whose land had been expropriated.

The operation was designed to trigger and set in motion a long-term reform process. Three areas
of reform had been identified for establishing an asset management system: (i) a national asset
management policy defining the framework for the management of the private domain of the
State; (ii) strategic portfolio management plans for each ministry; and (iii) buildings management
systems. The option taken under the operation was to sketch a broad path to reform, and identify
the measures, which could bring immediate improvement and jumpstart the broader reform
program.

The objective of the operation was clear and realistic. Improving efficiency in the management of
assets in the education and health sectors would contribute to making increased budget allocations
to these sectors more sustainable. A linear expansion of facilities in the two sectors was clearly
not feasible. While the real estate budgets of the three ministries concerned (Education, Higher
Education and Health) with these two sectors were relatively small (from 3.6 percent to 6.4
percent of their overall budgets), the resources were far from being efficiently invested.

The design of the operation was simple. It was sharply focused on changing the way public
administration was handling its real estate assets. It was limited to the education and health
sectors. In so doing, it took into account the lessons from experience, in particular those from the



                                                  - 2 -

Policy Reform Support Loan, which was approved in 1999, and rated as unsatisfactory. Its scope
was too broad, and the reform program was too unfocussed to have a major impact in any of the
areas covered.

The project was initially conceived as a small investment operation focused on physical
rehabilitation. As project preparation went underway, however, it became clear that a reform
program emphasizing changes in regulations and procedures was needed. These changes were
closely related to ongoing reforms in budget management promoted by the Public Expenditure
Review. The same government team was involved in the budget reform process and in preparing
the operation under review. This greatly facilitated coordination during project preparation and
implementation.

Eventually, the Bank decided that the best instrument to support the reform process would be an
adjustment operation. This decision was sound, but raised a serious issue, as Morocco's
macroeconomic situation did not justify moving out of the CAS base case envelope. The
adjustment approach had the advantage of focusing on the reform process rather than the project
outputs, however. It was better adapted to national institutions and budget cycles, and would
therefore contribute to strengthening public sector management capacity. The IMF strongly
supported the proposal of an adjustment operation

Except for the base case issue, the operation was fully aligned with the 2001 CAS, which was
based on the Government five-year 2000-2004 plan, emphasizing (i) accelerating growth, (ii)
improving the poverty focus of public policies and expenditures, (iii) reforming the state, and (iv)
reducing the agricultural sector's vulnerability. Three specific outcomes of the CAS were the
modernization and rationalization of the public administration, the improvement of budget
management, and enhanced service delivery in the social sectors. The operation was designed to
bring about changes in these three areas.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective of the operation was not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The operation focused on two areas in the long-term reform of asset management, including asset
management policy and building management systems.

Asset Management Policy. Under the first component, three sets of activities would be supported
(i) expedite resolution and reduce settlement costs for a large backlog of pending land
acquisitions; (ii) prevent a reconstitution of that problem; and (iii) develop more effective
instruments for the management of public lands and buildings.

A set of procedures was agreed upon to bring about a quick resolution of the backlog. They were
developed with the objectives of reducing (i) the perception of arbitrariness in the public land
acquisition process, (ii) the proportion of cases ending in expropriation litigation, and (iii) the cost
of settlements. To prevent the reconstitution of the backlog, and encourage ministries not to
hoard under-used land and buildings, the operation supported changes in the budget process,
including allowing ministries (i) to obtain a credit for the proceeds of ceded land and buildings,



                                                 - 3 -

and (ii) to redeploy resources allocated for building acquisition towards building rehabilitation and
maintenance. The operation also supported a change in the budget circular, which required
ministries to budget for land acquisition when budgeting for construction of buildings.

Rules and regulations governing the acquisition and management of public lands and buildings
were antiquated, complex, and often inconsistent. The operation supported the updating and
streamlining of the regulations into a new code for the private domain of the State. It also
supported the establishment of a single information system on the private domain of the State by
assembling and modernizing existing databases dispersed in many ministries. The design of the
system was to be completed in 2004.

Building Management Systems. The objective under this component was to shift resources from
construction to maintenance over time. Three steps were envisaged: (i) define building
management systems, allowing for an assessment of the condition of buildings and the
programming and budgeting of works; (ii) implement and adjust these systems in a limited number
of regions; and (iii) rollout the systems to the whole country and to all ministries. An initial
period of five years was considered as appropriate for the full deployment of the new systems
across the country. An additional period of seven years was deemed necessary for completing the
rehabilitation program and increasing the maintenance budget from a bare minimum of about 1
percent to a more desirable 3 percent of construction cost.

The design of both components was clearly linked to the objective of the operation. It focused on
introducing improved procedures and systems to the management by the ministries in charge of
education and health of their large portfolio of real estate assets. The program implementation
schedule was carefully developed in close consultation with the ministries concerned. It took
account of their capacity to implement the proposed reforms. Representatives from the regional
offices of these ministries were consulted.

3.4 Revised Components:
The design of the operation was not revised during implementation

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The objective of the operation was consistent with the
need to put the expansion of the education and health sectors on a more sustainable path in an
important area - the efficient management of land and buildings - often neglected by public
administration planners. Potential savings from improved management of these assets were
significant, as demonstrated by governments, which applied basic principles learned from the
experience of corporate real property management. Preparation of the operation involved the
active participation of a variety of stakeholders, both at the central and regional levels, under the
effective leadership of the ministries of Finance and Equipment. It focused on a limited number of
procedure changes, taking account of the government administration capacity to deliver within a
relatively short period of time.

A long list of prior actions was agreed upon and implemented before loan negotiations to ensure a
smooth implementation of the reform program, including (i) the enactment of budget circulars
concerning the asset management policy; (ii) agreement on terms of reference for the new private


                                                 - 4 -

domain code, the design of the information system and the audit of building maintenance; (iii) the
establishment of an inter ministerial committee to revise the expropriation law; and (iv) the setting
up of a steering committee with representatives from the ministries concerned to coordinate and
monitor implementation of the building maintenance program. Prior actions were designed to put
in place the means for implementing the reform program.

The second tranche release conditions were well designed and realistic. They were milestones
indicating solid progress in implementation of the reform program. They focused on key changes
to obtain the expected outcomes from the reform program and on first results expected from
program implementation.

Risks were adequately identified and mitigated. The first risk concerned macroeconomic
instability. Despite good progress made by the Government in macroeconomic stability over the
previous decade, this risk was not insignificant. In 2000-01, the fiscal situation deteriorated as the
Government used privatization receipts to finance large increases in the wage bill. This first risk
did not materialize during program implementation, however.

Insufficient allocation for maintenance of public assets was appropriately considered an important
risk. A second tranche release condition addressed that risk. The condition was partly met, as
adequate funding has been budgeted for maintenance in the Ministries of Higher Education and
Health in the past two years.

Delegation of responsibility for asset management to regional echelons of the government
administration was considered as essential for the success of the reform program. Given the long
tradition of centralization in Morocco, there was a risk that such delegation would be lukewarm at
best. A second tranche release condition was designed to mitigate that risk. Local representatives
of the ministries concerned were associated to program implementation early in the process.

Slow procurement was also considered as an important risk. The procurement process was
launched early and adequate budget resources were allocated to fund the required technical
assistance and studies before Board presentation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The operation has fully achieved its objectives; its outcome is rated as satisfactory. Expenditures
for investment, maintenance and rehabilitation in the three ministries concerned (education, higher
education and health) are being rationalized and public asset management is improving. Fiscally
unsustainable practices are in the process of being discarded. Increased attention to building
maintenance is improving the delivery of services in a number of social sector facilities across the
country. The reform program, which was strongly supported by the Ministry of Finance at the
outset and spearheaded initially by the Ministry of Equipment, has been internalized by the three
line ministries. The expected outcomes of the operation, as described in the Policy Matrix (Annex
2 of the MoP) have been met, as follows:




                                                - 5 -

Asset Management Policy.
l An amicable alternative is created for pending dossiers on land disputes due to priced
    disagreements to avoid legal proceedings: done
l Occupied land can now enter the legal acquisition process: done.
l Faster resolution of dossiers for which a price has been agreed upon: done.
l Ministries have incentives not to hoard land and buildings, and to stop building on occupied
    land: this is now the case.
l Revision of Morocco's expropriation law to ensure fast processing of dossiers, while
    protecting individual rights and private property: underway.
l Improved legal instruments for use by the Government to manage public land and buildings:
    underway.

Buildings Management Systems
l The three pilot ministries have an effective buildings management system that allow for
    buildings in better conditions at a lower cost, and that are fully functional in at least one region
    (health), one académie (education) and one university (higher education): this has been
    achieved, though only partially in the case of education. In the two other ministries the
    building management system is being extended to eight regions (health) and ten universities
    (higher education).
l Systems are ready for gradual deployment across the country and the Government has a plan
    for such deployment: done.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Six out of the seven conditions for second tranche release have been met before end-2005. As
discussed below, a waiver was approved for the last condition, as the Government took an action
that went beyond what was expected.

Asset Management Policy. The backlog of uncompleted land acquisition cases has been resolved
according to plans, and more arrears related to unpaid land acquisition have been settled than
initially envisaged. The amount of arrears for land acquisition has been reduced by half (from
slightly over DH 2 billion to less than DH 1 billion), while expectations were that the backlog
would be reduced by DH 600 million during the period 2002-04.

Past practices concerning land acquisition have been abandoned. The Ministry of Education,
where most problems occurred in the past, does not submit any more incomplete dossiers when
requesting acquisition of land parcels, nor does it request any longer ex-post regularization of land
already built on. The Directorate of Domain in the Ministry of Finance has now the resources
required to pay for any new acquisition, as soon as administrative formalities are completed. This
indicates that the Government is unlikely to start accumulating arrears again.

Preparation of a new code intended to streamline and update a large number of rules and
regulations concerning the private domain of the State took longer than expected. A first draft of
the code was completed in November 2005, but additional time was required for its finalization.
On the other hand, the Cabinet has moved beyond expectations by adopting a new expropriation
law.


                                                - 6 -

The adoption of the new code by the Government was a condition for second tranche release. It
was not met, however, and a waiver was approved by the Board, on the ground that introducing
more equitable and efficient land expropriation procedures was more important than the
completion of the code for the private domain of the State. The second tranche was released in
February 2006. Assuming that the Directorate of Domain gets assistance from a seasoned lawyer,
the new code could be available by the end of 2006.

The draft expropriation law has been approved by the Cabinet, but the General Secretariat of the
Government, in charge of presenting draft legislation to Parliament, has decided that more work
was needed to reach an appropriate balance between the interests of the State and the protection
of citizens' rights. The role of the judges in setting the price to be paid for expropriation is also
under discussion. No schedule has yet been set up for Parliament review of the draft law.

The design of the new information system has been completed. A new phase of the ongoing study
is expected to make detailed proposals for the exchange of data between various institutions
concerned in the implementation of the system. Implementation of the system is expected to start
in late 2006. It will be gradual, and will proceed at different paces in different ministries.

The achievement of the first output is rated as satisfactory. It is highly satisfactory as concerns
the land acquisition practices sub-component, and marginally satisfactory as concerns progress in
establishing an improved legal framework.

Building Management Systems. The program has been fully implemented in the Ministries of
Higher Education and Health, according to a technical audit carried out in late 2005. In both
ministries, the number of universities and health regions involved in the program is higher than
expected. In the higher education sub-sector, the program has been deployed in seven out of the
fourteen universities, and three additional universities will be covered by the program in 2006. For
each university, a three-year contract has been signed between the Ministry and the university to
define the means, which would be made available, and the results expected. In the health sector, 8
regions out of 14 are participating in the program. In each region, a technical unit has been
established and an inventory of assets has been carried out. A three-year contract was signed to
define the work program and the means available. Details on the programs for the first university
(Aïn Chock in Casablanca) and the first health region, covering the provinces of Kenitra and Sidi
Kacem are provided in section 10 below, additional information.

The Ministry of Education, which was slow in getting the program started, because of a large
sector reform agenda, also managed to satisfy the terms and conditions of second tranche
disbursement. In addition, the number of regions in which the first phase of the program was
implemented is higher than initially expected, and innovative approaches associating local
communities and private businessmen to various activities, including fund raising, have been
tested.

The Ministry is far from being able to reduce its backlog of degradation due to lack of
maintenance, however. The amount of resources allocated to maintenance has increased, but



                                                 - 7 -

remains much lower than required. For instance, in the Rabat region, where the program was
piloted, the amount of repairs required for the 600 existing schools was estimated at about DH
231 million. In 2006, the budget for maintenance and repairs was set at DH 8.5 million only. By
comparison, the budget for new constructions was set at DH 97 million, of which DH 84 million
for 20 new schools and DH 13 million for the extension of existing schools.

Achievement of the second output is rated as satisfactory. It is highly satisfactory in the case of
the Ministries of Higher Education and Health, and marginally satisfactory in the case of the
Ministry of Education

Substantial benefits were expected from the reform, but were not quantified. Improved land
acquisition through negotiations, emphasizing a speedy and amicable resolution rather than
through the court system, was expected to cost much less, as courts typically penalized the State,
by requiring higher payments than would be required. On the basis of experience, it was also
estimated that a dollar spent on maintenance would save three dollars eventually required for
rehabilitation. Some work is being done at the micro level to assess the savings actually made
through improved asset management. A monitoring system needs to be developed now to provide
a systematic analysis of cost and benefits.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated as substantial. Preparation and implementation of
the operation had a strong institutional development impact. A large number of officials from
several ministries at the national and regional levels participated in the preparation of the
operation. Procedures and methods were developed to ensure sound implementation of the
reform program. The Ministry of Finance provided leadership and helped line ministries
implement their part of the reform program. Some of these ministries were slow in moving the
program initially, but they caught up and eventually demonstrated a strong commitment to the
objectives of the program.

Institutional arrangements have been put in place to avoid the recurrence of inadequate and
inefficient acquisition of land and to develop a culture of asset maintenance. The better than
expected results in the Ministries of Higher Education and Health demonstrate a strong
appropriation of the program objectives by the ministries concerned, and a rapid build up of
capacity to address efficiently the issues identified during program preparation. In the Ministry of
Education, a capacity for repair and maintenance has been put in place, but financial resources
available for these activities remain inadequate

Ad hoc training has been provided to local teams in charge of the building maintenance programs
in the ministries concerned. Detailed guidelines have been prepared for the maintenance of
hospitals and health centers. Building on these activities, a comprehensive training program has



                                                  - 8 -

been prepared and is about to be launched in the Ministry of Health for all the staff involved in
building maintenance. A training center for staff responsible for the maintenance of health
equipment has been established. In the Ministry of Higher Education, information systems have
been put in place to monitor the state of assets.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Considerable delays were encountered in the recruitment of the consultants for the preparation of
the code for the private domain of the State. Three calls for bids, of which two advertised locally
and one internationally, were unsuccessful. The study was eventually initiated through direct
contract, but in April 2004 only. The consultants took longer than planned to deliver their draft
report, which was of poor quality. This delayed the preparation of the code, which led to the
waiver discussed above. Delays could have been shortened, however, had the Directorate of
Domains better managed the procurement process and worked more closely with the consultants.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
While progress under the building maintenance component was good in the ministries in charge of
higher education and health, the ministry in charge of education was slow in launching its
program, because it was, and continues to be, under strong pressure to build new schools to meet
a fast increasing school population, and to prepare and implement wide ranging changes in the
education system. Eventually, the ministry took the steps required to initiate a program of
building rehabilitation and maintenance.

These factors delayed the release of the second tranche by over a year and a half, but did not
affect the outcome of the operation.

The loan did not result in any direct increase in funding for building rehabilitation. However, in
the health sector, the Ministry decided that introducing sound maintenance practices before
bringing the buildings up to a certain level of technical soundness would result in a waste of
resources. It sought and obtained support from several donors, including the Bank, for the
rehabilitation of hospitals and health centers in a few regions. These regions were selected for
introducing the building maintenance program. In the higher education ministry, efforts were
made to reallocate resources to make some funds available for rehabilitation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Not applicable

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The agencies concerned developed a strong sense of ownership over time. The Ministry of
Finance was particularly committed to achieving the objectives of the reform. It provided the
resources needed for program implementation and assistance to the line ministries concerned. The
line ministries demonstrated increasing interest in improving the management of their assets. They



                                                     - 9 -

mobilized and allocated the human resources required and delegated increased responsibilities to
their regional and local offices. Considerable efforts were made to train a large number of staff.
National and local institutions in charge of asset management were built up in the three line
ministries. These institutions have delivered a large work program and have now the capacity to
continue on their own.

The Ministry of Finance is convinced of the need to put emphasis on sound asset management. It
is highly likely that it will continue to allocate the resources required for that purpose. Resources
for maintenance will be made available by striking a better balance between construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance. Over time, savings generated by a lesser need to build new
facilities or rehabilitate existing ones at high cost, will be used for expanding maintenance to all
public buildings. The Government has suggested that a seminar be organized to disseminate the
lessons from the experience to other ministries.

Overall, the sustainability of the operation is rated as likely. This is case in the Ministries of
Higher Education and Health. In both cases, however, sustainability would be greatly enhanced if
the Government decided to introduce cost recovery measures. At present, access to university is
free of charge, and visits to health centers are free. The cost of asset maintenance could be easily
recovered through the introduction of modest fees in the universities and health centers, as
discussed in section 10 below. It would be important that these resources be kept locally for
maintenance purposes

Sustainability in the Ministry of Education is more uncertain. Resources for repair and
maintenance of facilities remain inadequate. Participation of local communities and private
businessmen to the funding of school repair and maintenance is a promising approach, but it is still
a limited phenomenon.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The decision to make the project an adjustment operation was taken to ensure that the
Government would use its own resources and procedures for implementing the reform program.
As indicated earlier, overall, the Government has allocated sufficient resources for the program,
launched with Bank support, to continue after the end of the Bank-funded operation. Systems are
in place to apply sound land acquisition procedures and to expand the maintenance of public
buildings in the education and health sectors. Other sectors are in the process of adopting
improved asset management systems. A long-term program is being developed to coordinate
efforts and generalize the methods implemented with Bank support during the operation
implementation period.

As part of the long-term program, performance indicators are being developed, including ratios of
land used to overall land owned, cost of expropriation using amicable procedures, time required
for land acquisition, and resources allocated to maintenance in comparison with those allocated to
rehabilitation and new construction.

There is no need for a follow up operation by the Bank, as Morocco has the capacity and the
determination to implement its long-term reform in public asset management.



                                                  - 10 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance in identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the operation is
rated as highly satisfactory. The issues concerning the private domain of the State were well
identified. In 2000, two studies were launched to define (i) a strategy for the management of the
private domain of the State; and (ii) procedures for the efficient maintenance of public buildings.
An inter-ministerial committee was set up to coordinate preparation of the project. In late 2000,
the Bank team suggested to use the adjustment mode instead of the traditional project approach.
This proposal was excellent, as it forced ministries to count on their own resources for
implementing the reform agenda. It was well received by the Borrower.

The Bank team provided strong support to the Government during the preparation phase. The
same team visited Morocco frequently to monitor progress in preparing the operation and provide
assistance to the national team as needed. Project preparation took longer than anticipated,
however, because the study on building maintenance was not up to expectations. This delayed
project processing by about one year. This delay had a major advantage, however. It allowed for
improved appropriation of the objectives of the operation by the ministries concerned and
initiation of program activities to be supported by the Bank loan. Appraisal took place in May
2002. The policy matrix was reviewed and agreed upon. All measures required for implementing
the reform program were to be taken prior to negotiations. Conditions for second tranche release
included concrete results to be achieved and availability of means for the continuation of the
program after loan closing.

The Bank team identified correctly the major issues in asset management and provided excellent
advice.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision by the Bank is rated as highly satisfactory. The supervision budget was adequate.
The Bank team visited Morocco twice a year. Reporting was accurate, informative and candid.
Bank missions worked closely with their national counterparts to help move the reform agenda
and agree on adjustments when required. Follow-up letters were sent promptly after the return of
the missions. The Bank team was proactive and most helpful. There was a remarkable continuity
in the composition of the Bank team. The team leader and several of her colleagues were
associated with the operation from inception to completion. Overall, the Bank team demonstrated
a high level of professionalism and developed excellent relations with its counterparts.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank is rated as highly satisfactory. As part of the Government
overall program of public administration reform, the Bank identified the issue of real asset
management as one that could bring about tangible benefits rapidly. Bank support to the
preparation of the operation was steady and meticulous. The decision to move from an investment
project to an adjustment operation was sound. When presented to the Board, the operation was
ready for immediate launch. Supervision was first rate. An excellent team spirit was built during
implementation of the operation.



                                              - 11 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the Borrower in preparation of the operation is rated as satisfactory. The
Ministry of Finance demonstrated strong commitment to the proposed reform throughout the
preparation and implementation phases of the operation. Its directorates provided required
information on time. They were concerned with a number of shortcomings in the management of
the private domain of the State and sought help from the Bank to better analyze the issues and
address them. The Ministry set up an inter-ministerial committee to oversee preparation and
implementation of the reform process. The committee agreed on the prior actions required for the
reform program and appointed officials to take responsibility for each of them.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. The reform program was
implemented as envisaged, albeit with some delays, due in part to problems in recruiting adequate
consultants. Because of these delays, it became clear that a condition for second tranche release ­
adoption of a code on the State's private domain - would not be met on time. To make up for
these delays, the Government accelerated the preparation of a new expropriation law. Adoption
of such a law had always been considered more important than adoption of the code, but was not
made a tranche release condition, because of the uncertainties stemming from the extensive
consultations required. Eventually, the draft law was prepared and reviewed by the Cabinet more
rapidly than initially expected.

The ministries in charge of the education and health sectors achieved their objectives concerning
land management. Building maintenance has greatly improved, but remains an issue in primary
and secondary education. As was the case for the Bank team, there was a remarkable continuity in
the core team in charge of the reform program. This contributed to the solid results achieved.

The Government maintained macroeconomic stability and continued to implement its broad
structural reform agenda in 2004 and 2005 despite less than favorable external and climatic
conditions.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Not applicable.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower Performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

It is important to seize opportunities when they arise. The operation was successful in large
part because the proposed reform agenda came at the right time. After years of relentless
pressures for building new facilities in the education and health sectors to meet a fast growing
demand, the Government became increasingly concerned that continuation of the program was no
longer sustainable. Arrears for land expropriated for new construction were getting out of control.
The old paradigm of the pre-eminence of state interests over citizens' rights was no longer
acceptable. Moreover, lack of maintenance was becoming a major problem for the effective use
of education and health facilities. The ongoing reform of the public finance management system



                                                - 12 -

provided the background for the asset management reform.

The operation was seen by the Bank and the Ministry of Finance as an opportunity for rapid and
tangible results in the ongoing process of public finance reform. These results were achieved and,
in turn, facilitated implementation of the broader reform agenda. The ministries concerned with
the operation are now at the vanguard of efforts aimed at moving away from a culture of inputs to
a culture of outputs and results. The three ministries are now involved in the preparation of
medium-term expenditure frameworks.

Significant changes can be made with limited resources. Maintenance is too often delayed
because of lack of funding. Experience under the operation has shown that, even with limited
funding, significant changes can be made. The three ministries concerned have started a process of
building maintenance and rehabilitation without waiting for all the required resources to become
available. The process is now acquiring a momentum of its own. The decision by the Bank to
move to an adjustment mode forced the ministries to count on their own resources.

Before introducing efficient maintenance systems, it is important to get the buildings up to a
satisfactory level of technical soundness (a fact that is highlighted in the three-year contracts
signed between the Ministers and the local agencies).The amount of funds available under the loan
was not sufficient for the rehabilitation of a critical number of buildings in the education and
health sectors. This did not prevent the operation from initiating a solid maintenance program, in
part because other resources became eventually available from other donors in the health sector,
in particular.

Delegation to local levels and training are key elements for success. Initiation of the
maintenance program worked because the central level delegated responsibilities to local teams,
who were under pressure from the population to show results. In selecting regions, which would
benefit from the building maintenance program, one of the criteria used was the interest of local
management teams in improving the assets available. Ownership by local teams was essential for
getting the program started. Training of local teams was emphasized in all ministries. This was
important for ensuring the sustainability of efforts made with support from the loan. Partnerships
with the local population and the private sector were encouraged in the Ministry of Education,
which contributed to enhancing the impact of the building maintenance program.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The completion report prepared by the Government includes several sections prepared each by the
institutions concerned. The first section provides a detailed assessment of achievements under the
asset management policy component, which is fully in line with the Bank's own assessment. The
second section reviews implementation of the building management component implemented by
the Ministry of Higher Education. It gives details on results obtained and emphasizes the benefits
of the contractual approach, which was used to get results on the ground. The third section
includes a series of tables showing the detailed progress made in each of the regions selected. In
the last section, the Ministry of Education expresses its opinion that the Bank report does not give
sufficient credit to the basic changes introduced with project support. It underlines the delegation



                                                - 13 -

of responsibilities and build up of capacity at the regional level, and the development of new
partnerships for the maintenance of schools at the local level.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Higher education. The Aïn Chock University in Casablanca was selected to pilot the program in
the Ministry of Higher Education for various reasons, including a dynamic and committed
president of the University.

The first step consisted in assembling a team for the maintenance of assets. It included 10
engineers and technicians at the outset of the program. It has now 16 staff. Several training
sessions on maintenance management took place in 2002 and 2003. The University acquired
computers and software for asset management and maintenance, and, in 2005, a month-long
training session was organized to train the team on the use of the software.

A diagnosis of all the buildings was carried out. The total cost of rehabilitating the university's
facilities was estimated at DH 24 million. A rehabilitation and maintenance program including
seven projects was prepared. A three-year contract was signed between the Ministry of Higher
Education and the University for implementing this program over the 2003-05 period. The
Ministry provided DH 13.6 million, on condition that the program be implemented, and that the
University take full responsibility for the rehabilitation and the maintenance of its facilities after
2005. Eventually, the contract was extended to 2006. Including the 2006 extension, the total
contribution of the Ministry has been set at DH 18.4 million. Of that amount, the University has
committed a total of DH 12.2 million. No commitment has yet been made in 2006.

When the contract was established, the total replacement value of the buildings was estimated at
DH 585 million. he Ministry estimates that 0.75 percent of the building replacement value should
be devoted to maintenance annually. On that basis, the annual budget for building maintenance
should be about DH 4.25 million.          For the academic year 2004-05, 24,350 students were
registered in the university. The cost of building maintenance per student is about DH 175 (less
than US$20). A tuition fee should be introduced to ensure the long-term sustainability of the
program.

Health. The Kenitra/Sidi Kacem region was selected to pilot the program in the Ministry of
Health. The region includes two provinces with a total population estimated at 1,926,000
inhabitants.

The first step consisted in the establishment of the maintenance teams, one at the regional level,
and one in each of the two provinces. In 2006 the staff includes 3 engineers, 12 technicians and 9
maintenance agents. An inventory of all assets was carried out by the staff of the Ministry (for the
other health regions in the program, this work was done by consultants).



                                                - 14 -

The cost of rehabilitating the facilities was estimated at DH 60 million. A three-year contract was
signed between the Ministry of Health and the health region for the 2004-06 period. Under the
contract, the Ministry committed to provide a total of DH 31.5 million, including 22.5 million of
maintenance and DH 9 million for maintenance. Additional resources for rehabilitation will be
provided under a loan from the European Investment Bank

A center for the management of the program was built in Kenitra. Including this activity, a total of
30 projects have been initiated in 2004 and 2005, of which 21 have been completed, including 16
health centers, which have been rehabilitated or rebuilt. The largest project concerned the
rehabilitation of the electrical system in the Kenitra hospital, which is about to be completed.

The program of the Ministry of Health is rapidly building up, with the inclusion of new provinces.
Allocations have increased from DH 11 million in 2004 to DH 45 million in 2006. These amounts
do not include the rehabilitation of health facilities financed by external partners.

The reconstruction cost of two urban health centers in the Kenitra area was about DH 1.2 million,
or DH 0.6 million per unit on average. The annual amount required for adequate maintenance of
each of these facilities would be DH 18,000. This amount could be mobilized through a fee of
about DH 1 per visit. A higher fee would enable the health center to renew its equipment, without
the need to rely on the national budget.




                                                  - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                   1
              Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Accelerate resolution of backlog                                        An amicable alternative is created for pending
                                                                        dossiers on land disputes due to price
                                                                        disagreement, to avoid legal proceedings
                                                                        Occupied land can now enter the legal
                                                                        acquisition process.
                                                                        Occupied land can now enter the legal
                                                                        acquisition process
                                                                        Faster resolution of dossiers for whic h a
                                                                        price has been agreed upon
Develop mechanisms to avoid reconstitution                              Ministries have incentives not to hoard land
of liability                                                            and buildings, and to stop building on
                                                                        unsecured land
                                                                        Expropriation law is being revised
Develop more effective instruments for the                              Code on private domain of State is being
management of public land and buildings                                 finalized
                                                                        IT system has been developed
Develop and implement an effective building                             The three pilot ministries have an effective
management system                                                       buildings management systems
                                                                        Systems are ready for gradual extension
                                                                        across the country


Output Indicators:
                                                                   1
              Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                     - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million




Total Baseline Cost                                          0.00            0.00
                        Total Project Costs                  0.00
                  Total Financing Required                   0.00            0.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)




                                                - 17 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              0.00             0.42              0.42
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.43)           (0.43)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               0.00               0.00              0.00             0.42              0.42
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.43)           (0.43)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               03/01/2001                3    LEAD ECONOMIST/TTL (1);
                                              INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1);
                                              ASSET MGT SPEC. (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               04/30/2002                3    LEAD ECONOMIST/TTL
                                              (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                                              SPEC. (1); ASSET MGT
                                              SPEC. (1)
               04/28/2003                3    LEAD ECONOMIST/TTL (1);
                                              INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1);
                                              ASSET MGT SPEC. (1)

 Supervision
               10/24/2003                 1   LEAD ECONOMIST/TTL                    S               S
                                              (1)
               05/29/2004                 2   ASSET MGT SPECIALIST (1);             S               S
                                              INSTITUTIONAL
                                              MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1)
               10/29/2004                 3   LEAD ECONOMIST/TTL (1);               S               S
                                              INSTITUTIONAL
                                              MANAGMENT SPEC. (1);
                                              ASSET MGT SPEC. (1)
               10/25/2005                 3   LEAD ECONOMIST/TTL (1);               S               S
                                              INSTITUTIONAL
                                              MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                              ASSET MGT SPECIALIST (1)
               11/7/2005                  3   LEAD ECONOMIST/TTL (1);               S               S
                                              INSTITUTIONAL
                                              MANAGEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                              ASSET MGT SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
               04/23/2006                1     ECONOMIST (1)                        S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                           398.63
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                141.51
  Supervision                                                          162.42
  ICR                                                                    25.00
  Total                                                                727.56




                                               - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

- Memorandum of the President (MoP)
- Legal documents
- Progress reports
- Project Supervision Reports and Implementation Status and Results Reports.




                                                 - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner contribution




                                        - 24 -

ROYAUME DU MAROC


                               EVALUATION DE LA REALISATION
                               DU PROJET PAR L'EMPRUNTEUR


I - COMPOSANTE DOMAINES

La Banque Mondiale a accordé au Maroc un prêt d'ajustement pour la réforme de la gestion du
domaine privé de l'Etat. Ce projet s'inscrit dans le prolongement des conclusions de l'étude
réalisée par la Direction des Domaines avec 1'assistance de la Banque Mondiale pour
1'élaboration d'une stratégie de gestion du domaine privé de 1'Etat.

Cette étude avait en effet recommandé d'engager des actions de réforme notamment en matière
de règlement des dossiers d' acquisition des terrains privés nécessaires aux équipements publics, a
la révision de la réglementation domaniale dans le sens de son actualisation et de sa simplification,
et à l'amélioration de l' information sur le domaine prive de 1'Etat en terme de consistance, de
localisation et d' utilisation.

C'est ainsi que sur la base de ces recommandations, l'accord de prêt, signé le 18 juin 2003, a prévu
pour la composante foncière les conditions ci-après :

1/ Règlement au cours des années fiscales 2002, 2003 et 2004 des arriérés de paiement des
terrains juridiquement acquis à hauteur d'un montant total de 600 MDH,

2/ Révision des dossiers de terrains utilises par le Ministère de l'Education Nationale par les
commissions d'évaluation selon la procédure établie dans la circulaire du Premier Ministre en data
du 17 janvi.er 2003,

3/ Etablissement des plans topographiques pour les terrains utilises par le Ministère de
1'Education Nationale,

4/ Adoption pour le gouvernement des projets de textes sur les procédures domaniales,

5/ Lancement de 1'étude de conception d'un système informatisée d'échange de données foncières
entre la Direction des Domaines et les administrations publiques affectataires d'immeubles
domaniaux.

L'évaluation des résultats atteints dans la mise en oeuvre de ces actions est globalement positive
puisque les conditions prévues par 1' accord de prêt ont été pour la plupart remplies.

Le bilan de ces réalisations est présenté ci-après :




                                                 - 25 -

1/ Règlement des arriérés de paiement :

L'objectif des paiements fixé à 600 MDH a été 1argement dépassé puisque le montant des
créances réglées au titre des années 2002, 2003 et 2004 s'élève à 914 MDR. Cet effort
considérable a permis de pratiquement de réduire le stock des arriérés d'acquisition, estimé à fin
2001, à 2 milliards de dirhams.

Au delà de ces chiffres, il faut retenir que toutes les instances de paiement ont été totalement
résorbées et que toute procédure d'acquisition ayant abouti à un jugement ou à un accord amiable
avec les propriétaires est immédiatement réglée.

2/ Révision des prix des terrains utilisés par le M.E.N.

En vue de favoriser un règlement transactionnel des acquisitions des terrains utilisés par le M.E.N.
avant le 1er janvier 2002, la circulaire du Premier Ministre du 17 janvier 2003 a institué une
procédure de révision des prix déclinés par les propriétaires.

Cette action portait sur un échantillon de 95 dossiers représentant 195 parcelles de terrain.
L'ensemble de ces affaires ont été réexaminées par les commissions d'évaluation mais pour un
grand nombre d'entre elles il a été nécessaire de poursuivre 1' acquisition par voie d'expropriation
en raison soit de la situation juridique des propriétés concernées soit des prétentions injustifiées
des propriétaires.

3/Etablissement des plans topographiques

Une circulaire conjointe du Ministre de 1'Education Nationale et du Ministère des Finances en
date du 26 juillet 2002 a confié à la Direction des Domaines le soin d'établir les plans
topographiques des terrains ayant servi à la construction de 700 établissements scolaires.

Grace a une mobilisation soutenue du personnel technique de la Direction des Domaines, il a été
possible de mener ce chantier à son terme dès fin octobre 2004, ce qui a permis de lancer les
opérations d'évaluation des terrains, bloquées auparavant en raison de l'indisponibilité des plans
topographiques.

4/Etude sur l'élaboration d'un règlement des procédures domaniales

Il s'agit là d'une action fondamentale pour la reforme de la gestion du patrimoine de 1' Etat. Elle
porte d'une part sur la définition du domaine privé de 1' Etat et la clarification de son statut
juridique et d'autre part sur la refonte des textes régissant les procédures domaniales.

Cette étude dont la réalisation est en cours avec 1'assistance du cabinet «Ernst & Young et
Associés» se déroule selon les quatre phases ci-après :




                                                  - 26 -

        I ­ Etapes de réalisation de l'étude

Conformément aux termes de références de 1'étude, la réalisation du projet doit se dérouler selon
les quatre phases ci-après :

l Une 1ère phase de diagnostic portant sur le recensement et 1'analyse critique des principaux
    textes régissant le patrimoine domanial, sa constitution et sa gestion. Cette phase comporte un
    2ème volet qui consiste à analyser la réglementation domaniale d'un échantillon de pays
    présentant en la matière des similitudes avec le Maroc.
l Une 2ème phase de réflexion sur les éléments de définition du domaine privé de 1'Etat et les
    différentes options de réforme des procédures de gestion.

Une concertation sur ces premières propositions organisée avec les départements pour la
validation et le choix de 1'option retenue pour chaque procédure.

l Une 3ème phase de rédaction de la première version des projets de textes sur la définition du
    DPE et 1'organisation des différentes procédures. Ces projets ainsi préparés doivent faire
    l'objet d'un débat dans le cadre d'un 2ème séminaire de concertation organisé avec la
    participation des mêmes départements.
l Une 4ème phase de rédaction de la version finale des projets de textes à la lumière des débats
    auxquels la concertation de la phase précédente pourrait donner lieu.

        II - Etat d'avancement de l'étude

Les phases de diagnostic et de réflexion ont été achevées et le consultant a entamé la 3ème phase
de 1'étude en livrant un projet de texte sur la définition du DPE dont l'examen a donné lieu à de
nombreuses observations aussi bien de fond que de forme.

5/ Etude de conception d'un système informatisé d'echange de données foncières

Cette étude vise la fiabilisation et la maitrise des données relatives aux immeubles domaniaux
affectés aux administrations publiques. Elle a pour objet de concevoir un système de
communication entre les sources d'information des différents intervenants dans la gestion du
domaine privé de 1'Etat.

* Etat d'avancement des travaux

La réalisation de l'étude est en voie d'achèvement après accomplissement des travaux au niveau
des trois phases ci-après :

l 1ère phase : l'analyse de l'existant a été effectuée à travers des investigations auprès des
    différents intervenants. Elle a abouti à la description et la critique du système d'information de
    gestion du patrimoine immobilier de 1'Etat.
l 2ème phase : compte tenu des conclusions de la phase précédente, le Consultant a propose
    cinq scenarios pour la conception du système d'échange de données en terme de solutions



                                                  - 27 -

     conceptuelle, organisationnelle, technique et financière.
l 3ème (et dernière) phase : Apres le choix du scenario fondé sur une solution mixte constituée
     par un extranet et un échange électronique de données, le Consultant a livré récemment un
     rapport comportant une description détaillée de cette solution.

Ce rapport fait actuellement 1'objet d'un examen par un comite technique désigné par le comite de
pilotage de l'étude et il est prévu compte tenu des observations déjà formulées que le Consultant
soit appelé à reprendre les travaux de cette phase.

II - COMPOSANTE ENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR

Le gouvernement marocain a entrepris avec 1'appui de la Banque Mondiale un projet de
rationalisation de la gestion du domaine prive de 1'Etat, et ce, dans le cadre d'un prêt d'ajustement
pour la reforme de la gestion du patrimoine immobilier et foncier de l'Etat. L'objectif principal de
ce projet était d'accroitre l'efficacité de la dépense publique en rationalisant les dépenses de
construction, de réhabilitation et d'entretien. Ce projet, mis en place depuis 1'année 2003, vise
pour le volet maintenance, la mise en oeuvre d'un système efficace de gestion de la maintenance du
patrimoine immobilier de l'Etat.

L'appui et l'assistance techniques de 1'équipe de la Banque Mondiale étaient déterminants pour
notre département, tant au moment de la préparation qu'au niveau de la mise en oeuvre, de
l'évaluation et de la supervision de 1'étude. Les missions de la Banque ont travaille en étroite
relation avec les équipes nationales pour faire avancer le projet et procéder aux ajustements
nécessaires.

Dès le départ, l'objectif de ce projet était, pour le département l'enseignement supérieur, la
reforme du système de gestion de la maintenance du parc immobilier des universités avec les
implications suivantes :

l Evaluation du patrimoine immobilier des universités, connaissance de son état et rattrapage du
     déficit d'entretien en fonction des moyens disponibles ;
l L'affectation d'une manière adéquate et équitable aux universités de moyens financiers
     nécessaires à la maintenance du patrimoine immobilier ;
l La mise en place d'un système de contractualisation entre les universités et le département de
     tutelle qui permet l'accroissement des performances de réalisation en matière de la
     maintenance du patrimoine immobilier et l'efficacité des moyens que le ministère mettra à la
     disposition des universités ;
l La mise en place d'un système d'évaluation, d'une part à travers les rapports élaborés par les
     universités sur les réalisations en matière d'entretien et de réhabilitation des bâtiments et
     d'autre part par l'instauration d'un système d'audit interne.

Grace à ce projet les universités ont mis en place la fonction "Gestion du patrimoine mobilier" et
une structuration organisationnelle et technique spécialisée en matière de maintenance, et
disposeront d'une meilleure connaissance du patrimoine immobilier existant, de plans numérisés de
leur parc immobilier, de base de données a fonctionnalités multiples, de systèmes de gestion



                                                   - 28 -

centralisée des bâtiments; des schémas directeurs reposant sur un diagnostic de leur situation
patrimoniale, et de programmes de travaux de maintenance.

En ce qui concerne l'état d'avancement, jusqu'à 2006, de la reforme du système de gestion de la
maintenance du patrimoine immobilier, 10 universités ont été engagées dans ce système parmi les
14 existantes, soit un taux de couverture de 72%. A partir de 2007, le déploiement de ce nouveau
système sera généralisé à l'ensemble des universités par l'engagement des quatre universités
restantes.

La démarche utilisée est progressive et pédagogique. Elle est progressive (trois universités par an
après l'université pilote engagée en 2003) pour des raisons budgétaires puisqu'il y a un
accompagnement budgétaire pour la mise en place de la reforme et le démarrage des travaux de
réhabilitation suivant la nouvelle procédure. Elle est pédagogique car l'équipe formée au service
central pour coordonner le projet capitalise une expérience, chaque année enrichie, et en fait
bénéficier les nouvelles universités qui intègrent la reforme en les accompagnant dans la mise en
place de la reforme à leur niveau.

Le système sera pérennisé par la prise en compte de la question de la maintenance parmi les
priorités futures de la contractualisation globale avec les universités.

III - COMPOSANTE SANTE
     (Voir tableaux ci-joints)




                                                 - 29 -

- 30 -

- 31 -

- 32 -

- 33 -

                                        Commentaires
                          Sur le rapport de la Banque mondiale
                             Relatif à l'achèvement du projet
                    Concernant la composante Education Nationale



        Après lecture du document de la Banque mondiale, il est à signaler que celui-ci a retracé
l'historique du projet dans sa globalité, et que le Département de l'Education Nationale n'a été
concerné directement que par la composante « maintenance » bien qu'il ait participé activement
aux côtés de la Direction des Domaines dans la composante concernant la gestion des actifs. De
même, il faut signaler que la région pilote désignée en premier (l'AREF de Rabat Salé Zemmour
Zaer) était largement suffisante pour teste le nouveau système de gestion. Le fait d'avoir ajouté,
en cours de route, trois autres AREF, comme régions pilotes, explique le supposé retard initial
soulevé dans le rapport.

        D'autre part, le document n'a pas donné suffisamment d'importance aux changements
qu'a connu le Département de l'Education Nationale dans sa politique de gestion depuis 2002, à
savoir la mise en oeuvre de la politique de décentralisation, et au nouveau statut des AREF qui
bénéficient désormais de l'autonomie morale et financière. L'élaboration des lois de finances de
chaque AREF se fait à son niveau. Malgré l'insuffisance des moyens, les AREF ont programmé
des crédits pour la maintenance et l'aménagement des établissements scolaires.

        Il est également important de souligner que les AREF concernées ont développé, grâce à
ce projet, une dynamique de partenariat qui a permis d'associer divers partenaires à des opérations
de maintenance. Par ailleurs, le projet a encouragé la constitution de structures chargées de la
maintenance dans les AREF concernées, et a permis d'inventorier l'état physique des
établissements scolaires.

        Les services de ce département, au niveau central, régional et provincial, ont réussi à
mettre ne place le système de gestion de maintenance du patrimoine immobilier par la désignation
des équipes qui se chargent de ce projet. Les crédits nécessaires à la mise en place des entités ont
été alloués pour des formations sur la pathologie des bâtiments et sur les outils informatiques,
pour l'achat de matériel informatique et du matériel de bureau, pour l'acquisition des véhicules et
pour l'aménagement de locaux. Pour ce qui est de la mise en oeuvre du système, et pour respecter
les engagements et les délais impartis dans les contrats programmes signés conjointement par le
service central et chacune des AREF pilotes, des opérations de maintenance ont été programmées
dès l'exercice 2005. Les rubriques budgétaires concernées ont été renforcées de manière
substantielle dans le cadre du budget de 2006. Il en sera de même lors des prochains exercices
budgétaires.




                                               - 34 -

- 35 -

