                                                                                 35323
                                         Morocco
                            Asset Management ReformLoan

                                   Loan No. 4700-MOR

                 Release of second tranche and waiver of one condition

                               Tranche Release Document

1. The US$ 45 Million Asset Management Reform Loan (AMRL) Project was
approved by the Board on June 5,2003. The Loan was declared effective on August 22,
2003 and the first tranche o f US$20millionwas releasedthe same day.

2.   The Loan supports greater efficiency in public expenditures through (i)     improved
management of the private domain o f the state and (ii)rationalized investment,
maintenance and rehabilitation expenditures in education and health (through the
development o f buildingmanagement systems for the public health, education andhigher
education sectors). Itthereby contributes to the Country Assistance Strategy's (CAS) goal
o f expenditure rationalization, long-term fiscal sustainability, and improved service
deliveryinthe social sectors.

3.   The Annex o f this Tranche Release Document reports on the actions taken by the
Government to meet the conditions for release o f the Second Tranche o f the Loan. Six o f
the seven conditions have been met, additional actions have been taken regarding reform
o f the expropriation law, and overall progress i s highly satisfactory and demonstrates
substantial commitment to the agenda supported by the Loan. The following tranche
release conditions havebeenmet. The Borrower has:

        continued to maintaina macroeconomic framework consistent with the objectives
        o f the Program;

        applied, as agreed, an experimental approach to promote amicable (rather than
        legal) resolution for land parcels in the administrative phase o f an expropriation
        process;

        caused formalities (establishment o f topographical plans) that were holding up
        the processing of 700 dossiers for land acquisitiono fthe Ministryo f Educationto
        be accomplished;

        settled between fiscal year 2002 and October 2005, arrears related to unpaid land
        acquisition amounting to MAD 1,043 million or approximately US$115 million
        (more than the MAD 600 million required under the loan agreement, equivalent
        to approximately US$ 66 million);

        implemented the Buildings Management System, in a manner satisfactory to the
        Bank as demonstrated by the findings o f a technical audit, and

 (vi)    entered into Performance Contracts, in form and substance satisfactory to the
         Bank,with four additionalregions (for the health sector), sevenuniversities (four
         were requiredunder the loan) and four academies (for the education sector).

4.    The final condition--adoption by the Council o f Government o f new regulations
governing the procedures applying to the State's private domain--has not been met due to
delayed launching of the extensive work o f identifying, updating and revisingas needed,
the multitude o f texts related to the issue. To compensate for these delays, the
Government accelerated adoptiono f the draft expropriationlaw (approved by the Council
o f Government on December 28,2005). The draft law i s a substantial improvement over
the existing one in terms o f protecting private property, increasing efficiency, and
approaching international best practice. Adoption o f the draft law i s considered more
important than the initial condition and more than offsets the delay in completing the
regulations for the State's private domain.

5.   Based on the assessment that all other tranche conditions have been fully met, that
progress has been steady, if slower than expected, on the unmet condition, and that
Council o f Government adoption o f the draft law on expropriation demonstrates full and
sustained commitment to the objectives supported by the loan, pursuant to Paragraphs 3
and 16 o f Operational Memoranda dated January 21, 1992 and June 5, 2000 respectively,
it is proposed that the second tranche of $25 million be made available to the Borrower
for withdrawal at this time with the above mentioned waiver.

 Annex Second Tranche Conditions Asset Management ReformLoan
         -
 GENERAL    MACRO-ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK

 Condition 1. The borrower has continued to maintain an adequate macroeconomic
framework, consistent with the objectivesof the Program, as determinedon the basis of
 macroeconomic indicators acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.                M e t to the
 satisfaction of the Bank.

  1. The Moroccan authorities maintained macroeconomic stability and continued to
 implement the structural reform agenda in 2004 and 2005 despite less than favorable
 external and climatic conditions. Inflation remained low, nonagricultural output growth
 accelerated, and foreign exchange reserves increased further. Good revenue performance
 contributed to the narrowing o f the fiscal deficit and the debt-to-GDP ratio declined.
 Considerable progress has been made in the implementation o f structural reforms, most
 importantly, those related to trade liberalization, the financial sector, public enterprises,
 andthe labor market.

 2.   Unfavorable climatic conditions are likely to adversely affect agricultural
 performance. As a result, the overall GDP growth rate i s projected at about 1percent for
 2005. Nonetheless the overall balance o f payments is expected to remain in surplus. The
 fiscal deficit (excluding privatization revenue but including spendingby Hassan I1Fund)
 i s expected to increase to about 5.5 percent o f GDP, but to decline to 4.5 percent o f GDP,
 excluding one-off factors thanks to continued favorable revenue performance. Large
privatizationreceipts will help contain the debt to GDP ratio at about 70 percent, despite
the issuance o f debt to cover old pension fund arrears (2.4 percent o f GDP).

PRIVATEDOMAINCOMPONENT

General appreciation

3.    The overall assessment i s very positive as all but one tranche release condition have
been fulfilled and in a number o f cases the administration has gone beyond the actions
required under the loan agreement. In addition, common problem practices have now
been abandoned: thus the Ministry o f National Education no longer requests ex post
regularization o f land already built on; nor does it submit incomplete dossiers when
requesting acquisition o f land parcels; the Directorate o f the Domain (Direction des
Domaines) now has the resources to pay any new acquisition as soon as administrative or
legal formalities are completed. These developments demonstrate that the Government i s
unlikely to start accumulating arrears again. In addition, the amount of arrears for land
acquired has been reduced by half (from slightly more than MAD 2 billionto a bit under
MAD 1billion) thanks to the proceeds of the loan, but also to additional efforts by the
Government.

4.    One condition--the adoption by the Council o f Government o f new regulations
applying to the State's private domain--has not been met. This i s due to delayed
launching o f the consultancy to do the extensive work o f identifying, updating and

 revising as needed, the multitude o f texts related to the issue. Nevertheless, the work i s
 underway and the Administration i s actively working towards the elaboration o f a new
 code.

 5.   An additional development related to work set inmotion bythe project concerns the
 recent (12/28/2005) adoption o f a draft law on expropriation by the Conseil du
 Gouvernemenl. The Government accelerated adoption o f the draft law to offset the delays
 in finalizing the regulations for the State's private domain. Adoption of the draft law
 goes beyond the actions originally envisioned under the Loan and demonstrates full and
 continued commitment to the reform agenda supportedby the Loan.

 Condition 2 The Borrower has ensured, based on the monitoring carried out by the
Directorate of the State's Private Domain, that all Dossiers that entered the
 administrative phase of expropriation prior to December 31, 2001 for price
 disagreement, have been reviewed by the Evaluation Commissions, in accordance with
 theprocedures setforth in the Prime Minister's Administrative Circular dated January
 17,2003. M e t to the satisfaction of the Bank.

 6.   The condition was fully met. In addition, the Direction des Domaines produced an
analysis o f the impact o f the review by the Evaluation Commissions (the object o f which
was to see whether allowing the commissions to propose a new price when the initial
offer was refused might reduce the number o f expropriation cases that enter judicial
proceedings). The data shows that in the majority of cases, the issue i s not disagreement
about the price but disputed or unclear ownership (in which case the new procedure
obviously could not help). In the remaining cases, the analysis o f the Direction des
Domaines also showed that the administration(the Evaluation commissions) didnot have
a negotiation culture. The Direction des Domaines has decided to maintain the procedure
(which hadbeen introducedon an experimental basis) and work on improving it (notably
by providing clearer guidance to staff on appropriate ways o f negotiating and setting
prices.)

Condition 3. The borrower has (i)for the year 2003, finalized the topographicalplans
pplans topographiques9yfor 350 Dossiers not yet surveyed; and (ii)for theyear 2004,
initiated the preparation of said plans for 350 additional Dossiers in accordance with
modalities agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. M e t to the satisfaction of the
Bank.

7. The condition has been fully met (the topographical plans for the 700 dossiers have
infact been fully completed since October 2004). Inaddition, the Ministryof Education
has ceased submitting any demand for land acquisition without a fully completed
technical dossier (including the topographical plan) to the Ministry o f Finance. The
Ministry of Education will centralize the realization of the remaining backlog of
topographical plans, following similar procedures o f contracting out that had been
adopted by the Direction des Domaines. (Academies will be responsible for new
acquisitions.)

 Condition 4. The Borrower has settledfor the Borrower'sfiscal years 2002, 2003 and
2004, arrears related to unpaid land acquisition, in a total amount of MAD 600
 million. M e t to the satisfaction of the Bank.


 8.   As of November 2005, the total amount settled was MAD 1.043 billion, or
 substantially more thanrequested under the loan condition. The Government o f Morocco
has made substantial efforts since 2002 to settle the arrears (MAD 196 million in 2002,
MAD 280 million in2003, MAD 438 millionin2004 and MAD 129 million in2005, as
 o fmid-October). The 2006 budgetlaw includes a MAD 100millionprovision.          e




9.   A key achievement o f this project is that today, any land acquisition operation that
has been settled (amicably or through judicial decision) i s immediately paid. As to the
value o f dossiers already evaluated, but for which a price has not yet been set (amicably
or by judicial decision), it i s notionally estimated to be about MAD 995 million. In
contrast, the initial stock as o f December 31, 2001 (which included both dossiers for
which a price had been settled, and those that had been evaluated but not yet negotiated
or submitted to judicial proceedings) had been estimated at about MAD 2,055 million.
The implication therefore i s that this stock of land acquisitionpending payment has been
reduced during the period by MAD 1,060 million, or 75% more than what was required
under the LoanAgreement.

Condition 5. The Borrower has adopted by its Conseil de Gouvernement the Measures
governing theprocedures applying to the State'sprivate domain. Condition not met;

10. This conditionhas not beenmet and a waiver i s requested inview ofthe fact that the
Government has adopted other measures demonstrating full commitment to the reform
agenda supported by the loan and that it i s continuing work on revising and codifying the
procedures applying to the State's private domain. A draft law on expropriation has been
adopted by the Conseil du Gouvevnement on December 28,2005 -thereby demonstrating
full commitment to the reform agenda supported by the loan. Adoption of the draft
expropriationlaw i s considered to be o f greater importance than the regulations applying
to the State's private domain andmore than offsets delays inthe latter.

11. Regarding the procedures governing the private domain, the law firm hired to do the
underlying work has finished the first two phases of its work (compilation of all legal
texts related to the private domain o f the State ; and identification o f modifications
required) and started working on the third phase which consists o f writing up the
proposed new legal texts. The first draft was completed in November 2005 and a
workshop i s taking place in February 2006 to validate the proposals. The law firm will
then finalize the texts which will then be submitted to the Secretariat General of
Government for submission to the Conseilde Gouvernement.

 BUILDINGMANAGEMENTSYSTEMSCOMPONENT

 Condition 6. The Borrower has     (9 implemented the Buildings Management System, in
 a manner satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the results of the Audit; and (ii)
submitted to the Bank, on the basis of the results of said Audit, a remedial plan, in
form and substance as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, with a view to
remedy any shortcomings identijied by said Audit.          Met to the satisfaction of the
Bank;

 12. This conditionhas beenfully met as documented bythe technical audit undertaken in
collaboration by the Bank team and the Moroccan counterparts inNovember 2005. In a
numberof cases, implementationhas gone beyondwhat hadbeenexpected. Inthe case of
health, the regiono f Kenitra (the initial pilot for the Ministryo f Health) has implemented
in an exemplary manner the Buildings Management System, introducing a number of
innovations to better adapt it to the particular requirements of the health sector. In the
case o f Higher Education, the reform has now been deployed in seven out o f the
country's fourteen universities. A number o f universities (Fez, and Mohammed V in
Casablanca) have associated their engineering departments to the buildingsmanagement
reform process, allowing for cheaper and more efficient implementation, as well as the
development o f a training program to qualify. Finally, the Ministry o f Education, which
had initially been quite slow at implementing the buildings management reforms (not
surprisingly given the major overall reform the sector and ministry was undergoing) has
in the last year made major improvements. In particular, the first acaddmie to have
piloted the buildings management systems (Rabat) has done so very well, with a
particularly innovative approach to private public partnership to raise funds for
rehabilitation and maintenance. N o remedial plan was needed, although the audit gave
rise to suggestions for the continued roll-out o f the reform that were discussed with the
implementingteams.

Condition 7. The Borrower has entered into Performance Contracts, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, withfour (4) regions,four (4) universities andfour
(4) academies. Met to the satisfaction of the Bank.

13. Contracts have been signed with:

            0  The following seven universities: Hassan I1 Ain Chock in Casablanca;
               Mohammed V in Rabat; Sidi Mohamed Ben Abdallah in Fes; Chouai%
               Doukkali in El Jaddida; Abdelmalek Essaiidi in Tetouan; Ibn Tofai'l in
               Kenitra; and Cadi Ayyad inMarrakech;
            0  The following four regions (for health): Gharb Chararda Beni Hssen
               (Kenitra);   the  Oriental (Oujda);       Taza-Al-Hoceima-Taouante,      and
               Doukkala-Abbda (Safi).
            0  The    following     four     academies:    Rabat ; Greater       Casablanca;
               MarakecWTransifYHouz and Souss MassdDraii.

