Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2910 MOR
                   (Power Distribution Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                CASABLANCA INTERMUNICIPAL WATER AND
                  ELECTRICTY DISTRIBUTION UTILITY
         MEKNES WATER AND ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION UTILITY
                 KENITRA INTERMUNICIPAL WATER AND
                 ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION UTILITY
          FES WATER AND ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION UTILITY
                 TETOUAN INTERMUNICIPAL WATER AND
                 ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION UTILITY
                        Dated June 21, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2910 MOR
                 LOCAL UTILITIES PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 21,  1989, among INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND   DEVELOPMENT   (the   Bank),  and  CASABLANCA
INTERMUNICIPAL   WATER   AND   ELECTRICITY   DISTRIBUTION  UTILITY
(Casablanca Utility),  MEKNES  WATER  AND ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION
UTILITY  (Meknes  Utility),   KENITRA   INTERMUNICIPAL  WATER  AND
ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION UTILITY (Kenitra  Utility), FES WATER AND
ELECTRICITY  DISTRIBUTION  UTILITY   (Fes   Utility)  and  TETOUAN
INTERMUNICIPAL WATER AND ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION UTILITY (Tetouan
Utility), (collectively, the Local Utilities).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between Kingdom of Morocco (the  Borrower)  and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to  the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to ninety  million dollars ($90,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only
on condition that  the  Local  Utilities  agree  to undertake such
Page  2
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and each of  the Local Utilities, part of the
proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be
made available to the Local  Utilities on the terms and conditions
set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
     WHEREAS the Local Utilities,  in  consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms  defined  in  the  Loan  Agreement  and  the General
Conditions (as so  defined)  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  term  "Local  Utilities  Action Plan" means the
1988-1994 plan of actions  for  the development and improvement of
the Local Utilities'  electric  power  distribution activities set
forth or referred to  in  the  Schedule  to this Agreement, as the
same may be amended  from  time  to  time by agreement between the
Bank and the Local Utility concerned.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. The Local Utilities declare their commitment to
the objectives of the Project  as  set  forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall each carry out its respec-
tive Part of the  Project  (a)  with due diligence and efficiency,
(b) in accordance with the Local  Utilities Action Plan and (c) in
conformity with  appropriate  administrative, financial, engineer-
ing,  electric  power  and  public  utility  practices,  and shall
provide, or cause to be  provided,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the  goods  and  consultants' services required for
the Parts B through F of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of  the  Loan  shall  be  governed  by  the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Local  Utilities  shall  each carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition,  respectively) in respect of its
respective Part of the Project.
     Section 2.04. The Local Utilities shall each:
     (a)  duly perform all  its  obligations  under its Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and  except  as  the  Bank  shall otherwise agree,
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof;
     (b)  at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank
with regard to the progress of its respective Part of the Project,
the performance of its obligations  under this Agreement and under
its Subsidiary Loan Agreement,  and  other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan; and
     (c)  promptly  inform  the   Bank   of  any  condition  which
interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with  the  progress of its
respective Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
Page  3
of  Loan,  or  the  performance  by  such  Local  Utility  of  its
obligations under this  Agreement  and  under  its Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
         Management and Operations of the Local Utilities
     Section 3.01. The  Local  Utilities  shall  each carry on its
operations and conduct its  affairs  in  accordance with the Local
Utilities Action Plan  and  with  sound administrative, financial,
engineering, and electric power practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02.  The  Local  Utilities  shall  each operate and
maintain at all times  its  plant,  machinery, equipment and other
property, and from  time  to  time,  promptly  as needed, make all
necessary repairs and  renewals  thereof,  all  in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and electric power practices.
     Section 3.03. The  Local  Utilities  shall  each take out and
maintain  with  responsible  insurers,  or  make  other  provision
satisfactory to the Bank for,  insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  The  Local  Utilities  shall each maintain
records and accounts adequate to  reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Local Utilities shall each:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)  for  each  fiscal  year,
               commencing with its fiscal year ending December 31,
               1988,  audited,  in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year,  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Local Utilities shall each: (i) produce for each of its fiscal
years after its fiscal  year  ending  on  December 31, 1987, total
revenues related to  electric  power  operations equivalent to not
less than its total  operating  expenses related to electric power
operations; (ii) review before  October  31  in each of its fiscal
years, on the basis of  forecasts  prepared by it and satisfactory
to the Bank, whether it  would  meet the requirements set forth in
sub-paragraph (a) (i) of this Section  in respect of such year and
the next following fiscal year  and  shall furnish to the Bank the
results of such review upon its  completion; and (iii) if any such
review  shows  that  such   Local   Utility  would  not  meet  the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  of this Section for its
fiscal years covered by  such  review, promptly take all necessary
measures  (including,  without   limitation,  adjustments  of  the
Page  4
structure  or  levels  of  its   rates)  in  order  to  meet  such
requirements.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "total  revenues"  means  the sum of total
               operating revenues and net non-operating income.
         (ii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
        (iii)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related to  operations, including adminis-
               tration, adequate  maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in lieu of taxes,  provision  for depreciation on a
               basis acceptable  to  the  Bank,  and  interest and
               other charges on debt.
          (v)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Local Utilities  shall  each:  (i)  produce,  for  each of its
fiscal years after its  fiscal  year  ending on December 31, 1987,
funds from internal sources  related  to electric power operations
equivalent to not  less  than  30%  of  the  annual average of its
capital  expenditures   related   to   electric  power  operations
incurred, or expected to be  incurred, for that year, the previous
fiscal year and the next following fiscal year; (ii) review before
October 31 in each of its  fiscal years, on the basis of forecasts
prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank, whether it would meet
the requirements  set  forth  in  sub-paragraph  (a)  (i)  of this
Section in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year
and furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion;
and (iii) if any  such  review  shows  that  it would not meet the
requirements set forth in  sub-paragraph  (a)  (i) of this Section
for its fiscal years  covered  by  such  review, promptly take all
necessary measures (including,  without limitation, adjustments of
the structure or  levels  of  its  rates)  in  order  to meet such
requirements.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations  and  net  non-operating income,
                    but excluding non-cash operating revenues; and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                    including administration, adequate maintenance
                    and  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of  taxes
                    (excluding  provision   for  depreciation  and
                    other   non-cash   operating   charges),  debt
Page  5
                    service requirements,  all  cash dividends and
                    other cash distributions  of surplus and other
                    cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
         (ii)  The term "net non-operating  income" means the dif-
               ference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
        (iii)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (iv)  The term "capital  expenditures" means all expendi-
               tures  incurred   on   account   of  fixed  assets,
               including interest charged to construction, related
               to operations, minus  consumer contributions in aid
               of  construction  other  than  overhead  surcharges
               levied on consumers.
          (v)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Local Utilities shall each:
          (i)  take all measures necessary to ensure that:
               (A)  the balance of  its  electricity bills due and
                    payable as at July  31,  1988 shall be paid in
                    equal annual installments commencing not later
                    than September 30, 1988  with the last payment
                    to be made not  later than September 30, 1992;
                    and
               (B)  all  electricity   bills   (other  than  those
                    referred to in (A)  above),  shall be paid not
                    later than the earlier of: (i) the due date of
                    such bill; and (ii)  sixty (60) days after the
                    date of such bill;
         (ii)  not transfer any  funds  allocated to, or generated
               through  the  operations  of,  its  electric  power
               department to any  of  its other departments unless
               and until all  electricity  bills  which shall have
               been outstanding for sixty  (60) days or more after
               the date of such bill shall have been paid; and
        (iii)  promptly bill the Borrower's  public agencies so as
               to  enable  said  public  agencies  to  fulfill the
               obligations set forth in  Section  4.03 of the Loan
               Agreement in accordance with the provisions of said
               Section.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term "electricity  bills"  means, in respect of
               each Local Utility, the amounts periodically billed
               by ONE to  such  Local  Utility  for  the supply of
Page  6
               electricity and  related  services  by  ONE to such
               Local Utility;
         (ii)  the  term  "electric  power  department"  means the
               department of  the  Local  Utility  responsible for
               electric power operations; and
        (iii)  the term  "public  agencies"  has  the  meaning set
               forth in Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement.
     Section 4.05. The Local Utilities shall each:
     (a)  prepare and furnish  to  the  Bank  not later than Octo-
ber 31 of each  of  its  fiscal  years  for  the Bank's review and
comments, a proposed  least-cost  investment  program for the next
five  following  fiscal  years,  together  with  a  financing plan
therefor;
     (b)  afford the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity to exchange
views with said Local Utility on said investment program; and
     (c)  carry  out  during   the   following  fiscal  year  such
investment program as shall have  been  approved by the Bank, with
due  diligence  and  efficiency   and  in  accordance  with  sound
financial, economic,  administrative,  engineering, electric power
and public utility practices.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of the Local Utilities  thereunder shall terminate on the date
on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the  Bank  shall  promptly  notify  the Local Utilities
thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
Page  7
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For Casablanca Utility:
          Regie Autonome Intercommunale
           d'Eau et d'Electricite de Casablanca
          48, rue Mohamed Diouri
          Casablanca
          Morocco
                                            Telex:
                                               23008
     For Meknes Utility:
          Regie Autonome de Distribution
           d'Eau et d'Electricite de Meknes
          78, avenue des F.A.R.
          Meknes
          Morocco
                                            Telex:
                                               41910
     For Kenitra Utility:
          Regie Autonome Intercommunale de
           Distribution d'Eau et D'Electricite de Kenitra
          Kenitra
          Morocco
                                            Telex:
                                               91048
     For Fes Utility:
          Regie Autonome de
           Distribution d'Eau et d'Electricite
          Angle rue de Pologne et rue de Grace
          Fes
          Morocco
                                            Telex:
                                               51939
     For Tetouan Utility:
          Regie Autonome Intercommunale
           d'Eau et d'Electricite de Tetouan
          1 rue Marakat Annoual
          Tetouan
          Morocco
                                            Telex:
                                               43608
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted  to be executed in respect
of a Local Utility, under this  Agreement may be taken or executed
on behalf of said Local Utility  by its chief executive officer or
such other person or persons as such chief executive officer shall
designate in writing, and said  Local Utility shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence  of  the  authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
Page  8
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ W. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    CASABLANCA INTERMUNICIPAL WATER AND
                      ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION UTILITY
                    MEKNES WATER AND ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION
                      UTILITY
                    KENITRA INTERMUNICIPAL WATER AND ELECTRICITY
                      DISTRIBUTION UTILITY
                    FES WATER AND ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION UTILITY
                    TETOUAN INTERMUNICIPAL WATER AND ELECTRICITY
                      DISTRIBUTION UTILITY
                    By /s/ A. Benjelloun
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                    Local Utilities Action Plan
     In order to ensure  the  proper development of their electric
power activities, the Local Utilities shall, inter alia, carry out
the following measures:
A.   Parts B through F of the Project
     The Local Utilities shall each:
1.   prepare and furnish to the Bank  not later than June 30, 1988
for the Bank's  review  and  comments,  proposed  programs for the
provision of computer hardware  and  software and the provision of
overseas training, all under its respective Part of the Project;
2.   afford the Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity to exchange views
with such Local Utility on said programs; and
3.   thereafter, promptly carry  out  such  programs as shall have
been approved by the Bank.
B.   Management and Operations of the Local Utilities
1.   The Local  Utilities  shall  each  develop,  on  the basis of
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank,  and introduce and apply: (a)
not later  than  October  31,  1989,  a  suitable  cost accounting
system; (b) not later  than  April  30, 1990 a suitable management
information system; and (c) not  later  than September 30, 1990, a
suitable general accounting system; all designed to strengthen the
financial management of  such  Local  Utility's electric power and
water supply operations.
Page  9
2.   The Local Utilities shall each:
     (a)  carry out, under terms  of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, an analysis of the contributions  of its customers in aid of
construction to develop  a  system  of accurately forecasting such
contributions;
     (b)  take all measures necessary to ensure that said analysis
is completed and a copy thereof, together with the recommendations
based  thereon,  is  furnished   to   the   Bank  not  later  than
September 30, 1990;
     (c)  afford the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity to exchange
views with such Local  Utility  on  the results and conclusions of
said analysis and on said recommendations; and
     (d)  thereafter take all measures  necessary to introduce and
apply said system not later  than  July  31, 1991, on the basis of
said exchange of views.
3.   The Local Utilities shall each  take all measures required on
its  part  to  implement,  not  later  than  June  30,  1990,  the
recommendations referred to in Part  B.1  (d) of Schedule 7 to the
Loan Agreement, designed to  strengthen its capabilities in demand
forecasting and investment  planning  activities and to facilitate
the proper coordination of said activities with those of the other
Project Enterprises and Other Utilities.
