Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2910 MOR
                   (Power Distribution Project)
                              between
                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 21, 1989
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June  21,  1989,  between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  the Project will be  carried  out  by the Project Enter-
prises (as defined in Section 1.02 (h) of this Agreement) with the
Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of  such  assistance,  the
Borrower  will  make  available  to  the  Project  Enterprises the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
Page  2
conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and  in  the  Project
Agreements (as defined in Section  1.02  (n) of this Agreement) of
even date herewith  between  or  among  the  Bank  and the Project
Enterprises;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "ONE" means the  National  Electricity Authority (Office
National de l'Electricite),  a  public  enterprise established and
operating pursuant to  the  Borrower's  Law  (Dahir) No. 1-63-226
dated August 5, 1963,  as  the  same  may  be amended from time to
time;
     (b)  "Casablanca Utility" means the Casablanca Intermunicipal
Water and Electricity Distribution  Utility (Regie Autonome Inter-
communale de Distribution  d'Eau  et d'Electricite de Casablanca),
a public  enterprise  established  and  operating  pursuant to the
Borrower's Law (Dahir) No. 1-61-218 dated October 21, 1961, as the
same may be amended from time to time;
     (c)  "Meknes Utility" means the  Meknes Water and Electricity
Distribution Utility  (Regie  Autonome  de  Distribution  d'Eau et
d'Electricite de  Meknes),  a  public  enterprise  established and
operating pursuant to the  Borrower's Decree (Decret) No. 2-63-394
dated September 29, 1964, as the  same may be amended from time to
time;
     (d)  "Kenitra Utility" means the Kenitra Intermunicipal Water
and  Electricity  Distribution   Utility  (Regie  Autonome  Inter-
communale de Distribution  d'Eau  et  d'Electricite de Kenitra), a
public  enterprise  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  the
Borrower's Decree (Decret) No.  2-64-394 dated September 29, 1964,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (e)  "Fes  Utility"  means  the  Fes  Water  and  Electricity
Distribution Utility  (Regie  Autonome  de  Distribution  d'Eau et
d'Electricite  de  Fes),  a   public  enterprise  established  and
operating pursuant to the  Borrower's Decree (Decret) No. 2-64-394
dated September 29, 1964, as the  same may be amended from time to
time;
     (f)  "Tetouan Utility" means the Tetouan Intermunicipal Water
and  Electricity  Distribution   Utility  (Regie  Autonome  Inter-
communale de Distribution  d'Eau  et  d'Electricite de Tetouan), a
public  enterprise  established  and  operating  pursuant  to  the
Borrower's Decree (Decret) No.  2-64-394 dated September 29, 1964,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (g)  "Local Utilities"  means,  collectively,  the Casablanca
Utility, the Meknes Utility, the  Kenitra Utility, the Fes Utility
and the Tetouan Utility; and "Local  Utility" means any one of the
Local Utilities;
     (h)  "Project Enterprises" means,  collectively,  ONE and the
Local Utilities; and "Project Enterprise" means any of the Project
Enterprises;
Page  3
     (i)  "respective part of the Project"  means: (i) in the case
of ONE, Part A  of  the  Project;  (ii)  in the case of Casablanca
Utility, Part B  thereof;  (iii)  in  the  case of Meknes Utility,
Part C thereof;  (iv)  in  the  case  of  Kenitra  Utility, Part D
thereof; (v) in  the  case  of  Fes  Utility,  Part E thereof; and
(vi) in the case of Tetouan Utility, Part F thereof;
     (j)  "Category" means a category of  items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the  Loan  as  set  forth in the table in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (k)  "respective Category" means:  (i)  in  the  case of ONE,
Categories (1)(a), (2) and (3)(a);  (ii) in the case of Casablanca
Utility, Categories (1)(b) and (3)(b); (iii) in the case of Meknes
Utility, Categories (1)(c) and (3)(c); (iv) in the case of Kenitra
Utility, Categories (1)(d)  and  (3)(d);  (v)  in  the case of Fes
Utility, Categories (1)(e) and  (3)(e);  and  (vi)  in the case of
Tetouan Utility, Categories (1)(f) and (3)(f);
     (l)  "ONE Project Agreement" means  the agreement between the
Bank and ONE of even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agree-
ments supplemental to the ONE Project Agreement; and
     (m)  "Local Utilities Project  Agreement" means the agreement
among the Bank and the  Local  Utilities of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from  time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements  supplemental  to the Local Utilities
Project Agreement;
     (n)  "Project  Agreements"   means,   collectively,  the  ONE
Project Agreement and the Local Utilities Project Agreement;
     (o)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means,  in  respect of each
Project Enterprise, the agreement  to  be entered into between the
Borrower and such Project Enterprise  pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement, as the same  may  be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment; and "Subsidiary  Loan"  means  the  loan provided under such
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (p)  "Basic  Legislation"  means   the   following  laws  and
regulations of the Borrower: (i)  the Laws and Decrees referred to
in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of this Section 1.02
pertaining to  the  establishment  and  operations  of the Project
Enterprises; (ii) Laws (Dahir)  No.  1-59-271 dated April 14, 1960
and No. 1-61-402 dated June 30, 1962, pertaining to the Borrower's
financial control  of  public  enterprises,  including the Project
Enterprises; and (iii) any other law or regulation of the Borrower
affecting  the  establishment   and   operations  of  the  Project
Enterprises; all as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (q)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (r)  "Bank of Morocco" means the central bank of the Borrower
(Bank al Maghrib);
     (s)  "Other Utilities" means all  of  the municipal or inter-
municipal public enterprises  providing  electricity  in the urban
areas of the Borrower (other  than the Local Utilities) and estab-
lished and operating  pursuant  to  the Borrower's Decree (Decret)
No. 2-64-394 dated September 29, 1964,  as the same may be amended
from time to time; and
     (t)  "Power  Sub-sector  Action  Plan"  means  the Borrower's
action plan for the  years  1988-1994  for  the development of the
power sub-sector, set forth or  referred  to in Schedule 7 to this
Agreement, as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  4
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety million
dollars ($90,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a  special account in Bank of Morocco
on terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the  Special  Account shall be made in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1995, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other  obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
Page  5
cause the Project Enterprises  to  perform  in accordance with the
provisions of the Project  Agreements  all  the obligations of the
Project Enterprises therein set forth,  shall  take or cause to be
taken all action,  including  the  provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources,  necessary  or appropriate to enable
the Project Enterprises to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit  to  be  taken  any  action  which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
     (b)  For  the  purposes  of  carrying  out  the  Project, the
Borrower shall  relend  to  each  of  the  Project Enterprises the
proceeds of the Loan allocated  from time to time under Categories
(1), (2) and (3)  for  its  respective  Part  of the Project under
subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower
and such  Project  Enterprise,  under  terms  and conditions which
shall have been  approved  by  the  Bank  and which shall include,
without  limitation,  those  set  forth  in  Schedule  6  to  this
Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise  its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreements in such  manner  as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of each
Project Enterprise's  respective  part  of  the  Project  shall be
carried out by such Project Enterprise pursuant to Section 2.03 of
its respective Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this Section and those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate  auditing  principles consistently
               applied, by independent  auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than  seven months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
Page  6
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that the report of such audit con-
               tains a separate  opinion  by  said  auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. In order  to  ensure  the proper development of
the Borrower's power sub-sector,  and  except  as the Borrower and
the Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  take all
measures necessary to ensure that the Power Sub-sector Action Plan
shall be carried  out  with  due  diligence  and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and economic
practices.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that:
          (i)  each of its public  agencies  shall pay the balance
               of its  electricity  bills  due  and  payable as of
               July  31,  1988,   in   equal  annual  installments
               commencing not later than  September 30, 1988, with
               the  last  payment  to   be  made  not  later  than
               September 30, 1992;
         (ii)  each of its public  agencies shall pay its electri-
               city bills other  than  those  referred  to in sub-
               paragraph (a) (i) of this Section promptly upon the
               issuance  thereof  in  accordance  with  guidelines
               satisfactory to the Bank; and
        (iii)  budgetary allocations shall be made for each fiscal
               year in  the  relevant  budget  or  budgets  of its
               public agencies in amounts sufficient to ensure the
               fulfilment of  the  obligations  set  forth in sub-
               paragraphs (a) (i) and (a) (ii) of this Section.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term  "public  agencies"  means  the Borrower's
               ministries and  departments  and  its  political or
               administrative subdivisions; and
         (ii)  the term "electricity  bills"  means, in respect of
               each   of   the   public   agencies,   the  amounts
               periodically billed by  the Project Enterprises and
               Other  Utilities  to  such  public  agency  for the
               supply  of  electricity   and   related  works  and
               services  by  the   Project  Enterprises  or  Other
               Utilities, as  the  case  may  be,  to  such public
               agency.
Page  7
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any of  the  Project  Enterprises  shall  have failed to
perform any of its obligations under its respective Project Agree-
ment;
     (b)  as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make  it  improbable  that  one  or more of the
Project Enterprises will be able  to perform its obligations under
its respective Project Agreement;
     (c)  the  Basic   Legislation   shall   have   been  amended,
suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or   waived   so  as  to  affect
materially and adversely the ability of one or more of the Project
Enterprises to perform any of its obligations under its respective
Project Agreement; and
     (d)  the Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of any of the  Project  Enterprises  or for the suspension of
its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that each Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Project Enterprise party thereto.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that  each  of  the  Project  Agreements  has  been duly
authorized or ratified  by  the  Project Enterprise party thereto,
and is legally binding upon  such Project Enterprise in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that  each  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by the  Borrower and the Project Enterprise
party thereto and is  legally  binding  upon the Borrower and such
Project Enterprise in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
Page  8
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Rabat
          Kingdom of Morocco
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               MINISTERE FINANCES                31936M
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                    By /s/ A. Benjelloun
                                        Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ W. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Page  9
(1)  Goods:
     (a)  for Part A            44,600,000  )  100% of foreign
          of the Project                    )  expenditures,
                                            )  100% of local
     (b)  for Part B            13,970,000  )  expenditures (ex-  o
f the Project                               )  factory cost) and
                                            )  78% of local
     (c)  for Part C             3,780,000  )  expenditures for
          of the Project                    )  other items pro-
                                            )  cured locally
     (d)  for Part D             2,000,000  )
          of the Project                    )
                                            )
     (e)  for Part E             1,970,000  )
          of the Project                    )
                                            )
     (f)  for Part F             1,090,000  )
          of the Project
(2)  Works for Part A           21,720,000     60%
     of the Project
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3)  Consultants'
     services,
     training and
     fellowships:
     (a)  for Part A               160,000  )
          of the Project                    )
                                            )
     (b)  for Part B               440,000  )
          of the Project                    )
                                            )
     (c)  for Part C               120,000  )  100%
          of the Project                    )
                                            )
     (d)  for Part D                60,000  )
          of the Project                    )
                                            )
     (e)  for Part E                60,000  )
          of the Project                    )
                                            )
     (f)  for Part F                30,000  )
          of the Project                    )
                              ____________
          TOTAL                 90,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount  not  exceeding  the equivalent of $3,000,000,
Page  10
may be made in respect of  Category (1) (a) on account of payments
made for expenditures for spare  parts  before that date but after
June 1, 1987.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist in carrying out a
program  to  rehabilitate,  upgrade  and  expand  the  generation,
transmission and distribution  systems  of the Project Enterprises
and to  improve  the  management,  operations  and  financial per-
formance thereof in  accordance  with  the Borrower's strategy for
the development of the power sub-sector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   ONE
(1)  Construction, extension and  rehabilitation  of ONE's distri-
bution substations.
(2)  Extension and  rehabilitation  of  ONE's distribution system;
provision of utility  vehicles, compressors, protection equipment,
tools and metering equipment  required  therefor; and provision of
equipment, specialized vehicles, materials  and tools required for
works on live lines.
(3)  Provision of equipment and  tools  required for the upgrading
and rehabilitation of ONE's thermal power stations.
(4)  Provision  to  ONE  of  teleprotection  and telecommunication
equipment.
(5)  Construction of facilities  required  by  ONE in the carrying
out of its operations, including, inter alia, warehouse, workshop,
office, housing and training facilities.
(6)  Development and carrying out  of training programs to upgrade
the technical skills of ONE staff.
(7)  Carrying  out  of  analyses   to:  (a)  develop  an  improved
information system for  ONE's  investment  planning; (b) identify,
evaluate and recommend  measures  to  improve the organization and
efficient operation  of  ONE's  distribution  department;  and (c)
identify, evaluate and  recommend  least-cost  equipment norms and
work practices for ONE's distribution system.
Part B:   Casablanca Utility
(1)  Construction,  rehabilitation  and  extension  of  Casablanca
Utility's high voltage substations and distribution substations.
(2)  Rehabilitation   and   extension   of   Casablanca  Utility's
distribution system.
(3)  Provision to  Casablanca  Utility  of  computer  hardware and
software.
(4)  Development and carrying out  of training programs to upgrade
the technical skills of the staff of Casablanca Utility.
Part C:   Meknes Utility
(1)  Extension of one high-voltage substation of Meknes Utility.
(2)  Construction and extension  of  Meknes Utility's distribution
substations.
Page  11
(3)  Rehabilitation and extension of Meknes Utility's distribution
system.
(4)  Provision  to  Meknes   Utility   of  computer  hardware  and
software.
(5)  Development and carrying out  of training programs to upgrade
the technical skills of the staff of Meknes Utility.
Part D:   Kenitra Utility
(1)  Extension of two high-voltage substations of Kenitra Utility.
(2)  Construction and extension  of Kenitra Utility's distribution
substations and switching stations.
(3)  Rehabilitation   and    extension    of   Kenitra   Utility's
distribution system;  and  provision  of  measuring instruments, a
meter calibrating bench and an aerial lift.
(4)  Provision  to  Kenitra  Utility   of  computer  hardware  and
software.
(5)  Development and carrying out  of training programs to upgrade
the technical skills of the staff of Kenitra Utility.
Part E:   Fes Utility
(1)  Construction and  extension  of  distribution substations and
switching stations of Fes Utility.
(2)  Rehabilitation and  extension  of  Fes Utility's distribution
system.
(3)  Provision to Fes Utility of computer hardware and software.
(4)  Development and carrying out  of training programs to upgrade
the technical skills of the staff of Fes Utility.
Part F:   Tetouan Utility
(1)  Extension of one high-voltage substation of Tetouan Utility.
(2)  Construction and  extension  of  distribution  substations of
Tetouan Utility.
(3)  Rehabilitation   and    extension    of   Tetouan   Utility's
distribution system.
(4)  Provision  to  Tetouan   Utility  of  telecontrol  equipment,
computer hardware and software.
(5)  Development and carrying out  of training programs to upgrade
the technical skills of the staff of Tetouan Utility.
                      *         *          *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning September 15, 1993
     through   March 15, 2008                      3,000,000
_______________________
Page  12
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.O4 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                      0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                      1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods  manufactured in Morocco may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Telecontrol system equipment  and  tools  for  Part  F of the
Project may be  procured  under  contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures  on  the  basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited  from  at least six qualified suppliers
eligible under the  Guidelines  and  in accordance with procedures
set forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of  the Guidelines (excluding
Page  13
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Goods which  the  Bank  agrees  are  of  a proprietary nature
regardless of the cost thereof,  and  goods  for Part A (3) of the
Project estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $300,000 per
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$5,720,000, may be procured  under  contracts awarded on the basis
of direct negotiations  with  the  supplier thereof, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Works estimated to cost less  than the equivalent of $500,000
per contract, up to an  aggregate amount not to exceed $50,130,000
may  be  procured  under   contracts   awarded  on  the  basis  of
competitive  bidding   advertised   locally   in  accordance  with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With  respect  to  each   contract   to  be  awarded  in
accordance with the  procedures  referred  to  in  Part  A of this
Section and estimated to cost  the equivalent of $500,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in  paragraphs  2  and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.  Where  payments for such contract are
to be made out of  the  Special  Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the  two  conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished  to  the  Bank  prior  to the making of the
first payment  out  of  the  Special  Account  in  respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  5  to the Loan
Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  20%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     Consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded to consultants:  (A)  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall  be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
Page  14
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank  from  the Loan Account under the respec-
tive  eligible  Categories,  and   in  the  respective  equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories  minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
Page  15
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                    Subsidiary Loan Agreements:
                  Principal Terms and Conditions
     The following sets forth  the  principal terms and conditions
under which the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  shall  be  relent by the
Borrower to each Project Enterprise  in accordance with the provi-
sions of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
1.   The principal  amount  of  the  Subsidiary  Loan  made by the
Borrower to the  Project  Enterprise  shall  be  the equivalent in
Dirhams  (determined  as  of  the  date  or  respective  dates  of
repayment by the Project Enterprise)  of the value of the currency
or currencies withdrawn from the  Loan  Account or paid out of the
Special Account on account of  the  cost of goods and services forthe Project 
Enterprise's  respective  Part  of  the  Project to be
carried out under such Subsidiary  Loan  to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated  from  time  to time to the Project
Enterprise's respective Category.
2.   The Project Enterprise shall repay  to the Borrower the prin-
cipal amount of its  Subsidiary  Loan  over a period not exceeding
twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.
3.   The Project Enterprise shall pay  to the Borrower interest on
the  principal  amount  of   its  Subsidiary  Loan  withdrawn  and
outstanding from time to time at  the rate applicable from time to
time to the Loan  pursuant  to  the  provisions of Section 2.05 of
this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 7
                   Power Sub-sector Action Plan
     In order to ensure  the  proper development of the Borrower's
power sub-sector, the Borrower  shall  carry  out, inter alia, the
following measures:
A.   Electricity Tariffs
     The Borrower shall:
1.   carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
a study to develop  structures  and  levels of electricity tariffs
for its power sub-sector  on  the  basis  of the long run marginal
costs of electric power;
Page  16
2.   take all measures  necessary  to  ensure  that  said study is
completed and a copy thereof  is  furnished  to the Bank not later
than March  31,  1990,  together  with  the  recommendations based
thereon;
3.   afford the Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on  the  results  and conclusions of said study;
and
4.   thereafter,  take  all  measures   necessary  to  ensure  the
implementation  not  later   than   October   31,  1990,  of  such
recommendations, based on said  study,  as  shall have been agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank.
B.   Least-cost Coordinated Investment Study
1.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  carry out, under terms  of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, a  study  to  develop  a  coordinated  least-cost investment
program for the  proper  development  of  its power sub-sector and
measures to strengthen the capabilities of the Project Enterprises
in demand forecasting  and  investment  planning activities and to
facilitate the  proper  coordination  of  said  activities  of the
Project Enterprises and Other Utilities;
     (b)  take all measures necessary to ensure that said study is
completed and a copy thereof  is  furnished  to the Bank not later
than November 30,  1989,  together  with the recommendations based
thereon;
     (c)  afford the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower  on  the  results  and conclusions of said
study; and
     (d)  thereafter, on the basis of said exchange of views, take
all measures necessary to ensure the prompt implementation of such
recommendations based on said study.
2.   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Part B, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  at  all  times  maintain   a  technical  committee  with
membership and terms of reference  satisfactory to the Bank, to be
responsible  for  faciliting  the   coordination  of  the  Project
Enterprises in  the  preparation  of  their  respective investment
programs;
     (b)  prepare, through such committee, and furnish to the Bank
not later than October 31 of  each of the Borrower's fiscal years,
for  the  Bank's  review   and  comments,  a  proposed  least-cost
coordinated  investment  program  for  the  Borrower's  power sub-
sector, based in part on the proposed investment programs prepared
by ONE pursuant to Part  B  (1)  of  Schedule 1 to the ONE Project
Agreement and by the Local  Utilities  pursuant to Section 4.05 of
the Local Utilities Project Agreement; and
     (c)  thereafter take  all  measures  necessary  to ensure the
implementation during the following  fiscal  year of an investment
program for said sub-sector which  the  Bank agrees is designed to
ensure the proper development of said sub-sector.
C.   Oversight of ONE's Financial Operations
     In order  to  ensure  the  efficient  operations  of ONE, the
Borrower shall:
1.   develop and furnish to the  Bank not later than September 30,
1988, proposed policies and  procedures  for  the oversight by the
Borrower of ONE's financial operations,  designed to enable ONE to
carry  on  its  electric  power  operations  in  an  efficient and
Page  17
effective manner;
2.   exchange views with the  Bank  and  ONE  on said policies and
procedures; and
3.   thereafter, on the basis  of  said  exchange of views, at all
times apply said  policies  and  procedures,  commencing not later
than January 1, 1989.
