Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2910 MOR
                   (Power Distribution Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                  NATIONAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
                        Dated June 21, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2910 MOR
                       ONE PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June  21,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT   (the  Bank)  and  NATIONAL
ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (ONE).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between Kingdom of Morocco (the  Borrower)  and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to  the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to ninety  million dollars ($90,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only
on condition that ONE  agree  to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and  ONE,  part  of  the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the  Loan  Agreement  will be made available to
ONE on the terms and conditions  set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS ONE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms  defined  in  the  Loan  Agreement  and  the General
Conditions (as so  defined)  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  the term "ONE Action Plan" means ONE's 1988-1994 plan of
actions for the development and  improvement of its electric power
activities set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Schedule to this
Agreement, as  the  same  may  be  amended  from  time  to time by
agreement between the Bank and ONE; and
     (b)  the  term  "Corporate   Development  Plan"  means  ONE's
medium-term corporate development plan  referred  to  in Part B of
the Schedule to this Agreement, as  the same shall be updated from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said Part B.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. ONE declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth  in  Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out  Part A of the Project: (a) with
due diligence  and  efficiency,  (b)  in  accordance  with the ONE
Action Plan, and  (c)  in  conformity with appropriate administra-
tive, financial, engineering,  electric  power  and public utility
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the purpose.
     Section 2.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for Part A of the Project  and  to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed  by  the provisions of Schedule 4 to
the Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.03. ONE shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the ONE Project Agreement
and Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.04.  ONE  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under its Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as  the Bank shall
otherwise agree, ONE shall not take  or concur in any action which
would  have  the  effect  of  amending,  abrogating,  assigning or
waiving its Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a)  ONE  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A
of the Project,  the  performance  of  its  obligations under this
Agreement and  under  its  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  ONE shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
Part A the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or
the performance by ONE of its obligations under this Agreement and
under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  3
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of ONE
     Section 3.01. ONE shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with the  ONE Action Plan and with sound
administrative,   financial,   engineering   and   electric  power
practices  under  the  supervision  of  qualified  and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. ONE shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
electric power practices.
     Section 3.03. ONE shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make  other  provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and  in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  ONE  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  ONE shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than  seven months after the end
               of each  such  year,  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as  the  audit  thereof,  as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ONE shall produce funds from  internal sources related to electric
power operations equivalent to not less  than 25%, for each of its
fiscal years 1988, 1989 and 1990,  and 30%, for each of its fiscal
years thereafter, of the annual  average of ONE's capital expendi-
tures related to electric  power  operations incurred, or expected
to be incurred, for that  year,  the  previous fiscal year and the
next following fiscal year.
     (b)  Before October  31  in  each  of  its  fiscal years, ONE
shall, on the basis of  forecasts prepared by ONE and satisfactory
to the Bank, review  whether  it  would  meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph  (a)  in  respect  of  such  year  and the next
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such
review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  ONE  would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for ONE's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  ONE  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the struc-
ture or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
Page  4
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations and net non-operating income but
                    excluding non-cash operating revenues; and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                    including administration, adequate maintenance
                    and  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of  taxes
                    (excluding  provision   for  depreciation  and
                    other   non-cash   operating   charges),  debt
                    service requirements,  all  cash dividends and
                    other cash distributions  of surplus and other
                    cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
         (ii)  The term "net non-operating  income" means the dif-
               ference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
        (iii)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (iv)  The term "capital  expenditures" means all expendi-
               tures  incurred   on   account   of  fixed  assets,
               including interest charged to construction, related
               to operations, but excluding consumer contributions
               in  aid  of   construction   (other  than  overhead
               surcharges  levied  on  consummers)  and government
               contributions  for  the  Borrower's  national rural
               electrification   program   and   fund   for  least
               developed regions.
          (v)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.03. (a) Without  limitation  upon the provisions of
Section 4.02 of this Agreement, ONE shall take all measures neces-
sary to ensure that its electricity tariffs shall be increased not
later than May 1, 1988, to  levels such that the estimated average
price of electricity  at  the  increased  tariff  levels equals at
least 105% of the actual average price of electricity at the prior
electricity tariff levels.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term  "electricity  tariffs"  means  the prices
               charged by ONE to  distributers  and final users of
               electricity for electricity provided by ONE;
         (ii)  the term "estimated  average  price of electricity"
               means (A) the revenues  (excluding taxes) which ONE
               would  have  received   by  selling  the  reference
               quantity of  electricity  at  the  increased tariff
Page  5
               levels, divided by  (B)  the  reference quantity of
               electricity; all as  calculated  in accordance with
               guidelines satisfactory to the Bank;
        (iii)  the term "actual average price of electricity means
               (A) the revenues (excluding  taxes) received by ONE
               from the sale of the reference quantity of electri-
               city  at  the   prior  electricity  tariff  levels,
               divided by (B)  the  reference quantity of electri-
               city; all as  calculated  in accordance with guide-
               lines satisfactory to the Bank;
         (iv)  the term "reference  quantity of electricity" means
               the  total  amount  of  electricity,  expressed  in
               kilowatt/hours, sold by ONE  during the period from
               the date from  which  the  prior electricity tariff
               levels became effective to April 1, 1988;
          (v)  the  term  "increased  electricity  tariff  levels"
               means the levels of electricity tariffs established
               in accordance with the  provisions of paragraph (a)
               of this Section; and
         (vi)  the term  "prior  electricity  tariff levels" means
               the levels of  electricity tariffs established upon
               the  last  increase  of  electricity  tariff levels
               prior to the increase  referred to in paragraph (a)
               of this Section.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ONE shall not incur any  debt  unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures  of  ONE  shows  that  the estimated net
revenues of ONE for each fiscal  year  during the term of the debt
to be incurred shall  be  at  least  1.5  times the estimated debt
service requirements of  ONE  in  such  year  on  all  debt of ONE
including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of ONE
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations  and  net  non-operating income,
                    but excluding non-cash operating revenues; and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including   administration,   adequate   main-
                    tenance, taxes and payments  in lieu of taxes,
                    but  excluding   provision  for  depreciation,
                    other non-cash operating  charges and interest
                    and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
Page  6
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate  of  repayments  (including  sinking fund
               payments,  if  any)  of,  and  interest  and  other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared by ONE not earlier than three months prior
               to the incurrence  of  the  debt in question, which
               both the Bank and  ONE  accept as reasonable and as
               to which the Bank  has  notified ONE of its accept-
               ability, provided that no  event has occurred since
               such notification which  has,  or may reasonably be
               expected in the future  to have, a material adverse
               effect  on  the   financial   condition  or  future
               operating results of ONE.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.05. (a) ONE  shall  take  all measures necessary to
pay each of its fuel bills  within  thirty (30) days after the due
date of such bill.
     (b)  For purposes  of  this  Section,  the  term "fuel bills"
means the amounts periodically  billed  to  ONE  for the supply of
fuel and related services to ONE.
     Section 4.06. ONE shall promptly  bill the Local Utilities so
as to enable the  Local  Utilities  to fulfill the obligations set
forth in Section 4.04 of  the Local Utilities Project Agreement in
accordance with the provisions of said Section.
     Section 4.07. The provisions of Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the
Project Agreement dated July 2, 1976  between the Bank and ONE for
a Sidi  Cheho-Al  Massira  Project  (Loan  No.  1299  MOR)  and of
Section 4.03 of the Project  Agreement  dated May 22, 1979 between
the Bank and ONE for  a  Village Electrification Project (Loan No.
1695 MOR) are hereby amended to read as set forth in Sections 4.02
and 4.05 of this Agreement, respectively.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of ONE thereunder  shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify ONE thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
Page  7
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For ONE:
          Office National de l'Electricite
          65, rue Aspirant Lafuente
          Casablanca
          Morocco
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               OFELEC                          22780 M
                                               22603 M
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ONE, may  be taken or executed by its chief
executive officer or such  other  person  or persons as such chief
executive  officer  shall  designate  in  writing,  and  ONE shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient  evidence  of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ W. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    NATIONAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY
Page  8
                    By /s/ A. Benjelloun
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                          ONE Action Plan
     In order to  ensure  the  proper  development of its electric
power activities, ONE shall,  inter  alia, carry out the following
measures.
A.   Part A of the Project
ONE shall:
1.   carry out the analyses,  referred  to  in  Part  A (7) of the
Project, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank;
2.   complete said analyses and  furnish  to  the Bank the results
and conclusions thereof,  together  with the recommendations based
thereon, not later than December 31, 1989;
3.   afford the Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity to exchange views
with ONE on said results, conclusions and recommendations; and
4.   thereafter take all measures  necessary  to ensure the prompt
implementation, not later than January  1, 1992, of such recommen-
dations, based on said studies,  as shall have been agreed between
the Bank and ONE.
B.   Management and Operations of ONE
1.   ONE shall:
     (a)  prepare  and  furnish  to   the   Bank  not  later  than
October 31, 1988, for  the  Bank's  review and comments, a medium-
term corporate development plan  setting  forth: (i) ONE's organi-
zational,  managerial,  operational  and  financial  policies  and
objectives, including operational  and  financial  targets for the
next following three years; (ii)  a program of actions designed to
implement such policies and  achieve  such objectives and targets,
including (A) an investment program  for  said period and the next
two  years  thereafter,  and   (B)  measures,  to  be  implemented
commencing in  fiscal  year  1989  and  at  all  times thereafter,
designed to protect ONE from  fluctuations  in the amounts paid by
ONE  for  fuel  utilized  in  the  generation  of  electric power,
attributable to fluctuations in  the hydrological condition of the
Borrower's territory; and  (iii)  the  resources  to enable ONE to
carry out said actions;
     (b)  afford the Borrower and  the  Bank a reasonable opportu-
nity to exchange views with ONE on the Corporate Development Plan;
     (c)  thereafter, on the basis of said exchange of views, con-
clude arrangements, not  later  than  November  30, 1988, with the
Borrower designed  to  ensure  the  proper  implementation  of the
Corporate Development Plan; and
     (d)  carry out the Corporate  Development Plan with due dili-
gence and efficiency and  in conformity with sound administrative,
financial,  economic,  engineering,   electric  power  and  public
utility practices.
2.   Further to the foregoing, ONE shall:
     (a)  maintain operational procedures designed to enable it to
monitor and evaluate,  in  accordance with guidelines satisfactory
to the Bank, the carrying out of the Corporate Development Plan;
     (b)  prepare  and  furnish  to   the   Bank  not  later  than
October 31 of each year a  report, in form and substance satisfac-
Page  9
tory to the Bank, on the conclusions and recommendations indicated
by the monitoring and  evaluation activities performed pursuant to
sub-paragraph (a) of this  Part,  including any proposed revisions
and additions to be introduced into the Corporate Development Plan
for the next following  three  years, including proposed revisions
and additions to  be  introduced  into  the investment program for
said period and the next two years thereafter; and
     (c)  thereafter  promptly   introduce   such   revisions  and
additions into the Corporate  Development  Plan as shall have been
agreed between the Bank and ONE.
3.   In order to enhance ONE's management capabilities, ONE shall:
     (a)  develop, in accordance with terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30,
1990, for the Bank's review and comments, a management information
system for ONE;
     (b)  afford the  Bank  a  reasonable  opportunity to exchange
views with ONE on such management information system; and
     (c)  thereafter, promptly introduce and apply such management
information system on the basis of said exchange of views.
4.   ONE shall take all  measures  required  on its part to imple-
ment, not  later  than  December  31,  1990, those recommendations
referred to in  Part  B.1  of  Schedule  7  to the Loan Agreement,
designed to strengthen its  capabilities in demand forecasting and
investment  planning  activities  and  to  facilitate  the  proper
coordination of said activities  with  those  of the other Project
Enterprises and Other Utilities.
