Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17498
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$119.0 MILLION
TO
PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FORA
THIRD SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
March 12, 1998
Human and Social Development Group
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay CMIJ
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1998)
Currency Unit = Peso
1.00 Peso = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = 1.00 Peso
FISCAL YEAR 1998
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIJE         School-based Extracurricular Activities Program
Programa de Apoyo a las Iniciativas Juveniles en la Escuela
COPRET       Provincial Council for Technical Education
Consejo Provincialpara la Educaci6n Tecnica
DEMTyA       Secondary Education Department
Direccion de Educaci6n Media, Tecnica y Agraria
EGB          Basic Education
Educaci6n General Bcisica
EGB3         Third Cycle of Basic Education (from 7th to 9th grade)
MCE          Federal Ministry of Culture and Education
Ministerio de Cultura y Educacion
NBI          Unsatisfied Basic Needs index
Necesidades-Bdsicas Insatisfechas
NREE         Risk Level of Education Exclusion index
Nivel de Riesgo de Exclusi6n Educativo
UEP          Project Implementation Unit
Unidad Ejecutora Provincial
PBA          Province of Buenos Aires
PEI          School-based plan
Plan Educativo Institucional
PIEs         School-based Improvement Projects
Proyectos Institucionales Especificos
DGCyE        Directorate General of Culture and Education
Direcci6n General de Culturay Educacion de la Provincia de Buenos
Aires
PTENM        Provincial Program for the Polymodal Transformation
Programa de Transformaci6n Educativa al Nivel Medio
PRISE        IDB Program of Reforrn and Investments in Education
Programa de Reformas e Inversiones en Educaci6n, IDB
ProFEI       Institutionally Strengthening Program at the School Level Sub-
Component
Programa de Fortalecimiento Educativo e Institucional
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director: Julian Schweitzer
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: William Experton



PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Third Secondary Education Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators
1B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goals supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
IC. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
IF. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspect



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Project Articulation Description and Graph
Annex 4      Estimated Project Cost
Annex 5.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary and
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 6.     Financial Analysis
Annex 7.     Social Assessment
Annex 8.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Procurement Schedule for Year One of Project Implementation
Table D.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 9.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 10.    Documents in Project File
Annex 11.    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 12.    Country at a Glance
Map of Argentina
Map of the Province of Buenos Aires



PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Third Secondary Education Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin American and the Caribbean Region
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay CMU
Date: March 12, 1998                                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager: William Experton
Cotntry Manager/Director: Myma Alexander      Sector Manager/Director: Julian Schweitzer
Project ID: AR-PE-50714  Sector: Education           Program Objective Category: PR
Lending Instrument: Investment Loan                 Program of Targeted Intervention: [Xl Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [  Credit       [] Guarantee      [I Other [Specity]
For Loans/(Credits/Others:
Amount (US$mrSDRm): US$ 119 million
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency     [X] Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 5           []   Standard Variable  [   Fixed          [XJ   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: -
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                   Local              Foreign           Total
Government                                                  51.0                                 51.0
IBRD                                                       107.0                12.0            119.0
Total         158.0               12.0            170.0
Borrower: The Province of Buenos Aires
Guarantor: Argentine Republic
Responsible agency(ies): Directorate General of Culture and Education - DGCyE
Estimated clisbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1998      1999       2000
Annual    103.8        10.6        4.6
Cumulative    103.8      114.4      119.0
Financing aLvailable without guarantee?:           []   Yes               [J   No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity: N/A
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee: N/A
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: July 1, 1998
Expected closing date: December 31, 2001
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
(1) Increase access to third cycle of Basic Education and Polymodal secondary levell: This
objective will be achieved by: (i) increasing coverage of the third cycle of EGB (Basic Education from
7th to 9th grades) and the transition rate between the third cycle of EGB and the new Polymodal level
(from 10th to 12th grade); and (ii) improving the capacity of 200 Polymodal schools to attract students by
making the school more appealing to the youth.
(2) Improve the learning process in the targeted Polymodall schools: This objective will be achieved
by: (i) assisting schools in their transition to the new curriculum; (ii) improving school management by
supporting the development of school institutional plans (PEI) with an emphasis on educational
objectives; (iii) providing educational equipment and in-service training for teachers and school
administrators; and (iv) providing more resources at the school level by improving the efficiency of
sector administration.
(3) Improve the skills of Polymodal graduates in order to facilitate entrance in the labor market:
This objective will be achieved by: (i) adopting curricular prograins and providing equipment which are
up to date with labor market needs; (ii) improving teachers' knowledge and practices in technical
education; and (iii) developing permanent ties between the targeted schools and private sector.
The progress made towards these development objectives will be measured using five main
indicators with their respective targets:
- Enrollment in 9th grade of EGB3 from 216,000 to 240,000
- Transition rate from EGB3 to the Polymodal level from 93% to 980%
- Completion rate of Polymodal in Participating Schools from 18.5% lto 50%
- Achievement test scores in Spanish and Mathematics in Polymodal l'articipating Schools measured in
the last grade of this level.
Spanish from 63.60% to 68.05%
Mathematics from 64.70% to 67.90%
- Repetition rate in Polymodal Participating Schools from 15.6% to 7°'o
- 30% reduction of time necessary for graduates of Polymodal Participating Schools to enter the labor
market.*
Note: all but the first indicator are for the 200 targeted Polymodal schools.
* A study will deternine the baseline for this indicator.
'The Polymodal secondary education means the last three years of high school education (from 10th to 12th grade)
in which a new curniculum composed of both traditional disciplines and technologically oriented fields will be
taught.



Page 3
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: Report No.: 16505-AR Date of latest CAS discussion: May 15, 1997
Date of latest CAS Progress Report: March 17, 1998.
The CAS considers that:
a. Investment in long-term human resource development is the key to sustain growth, reduce poverty
and improve international competitiveness: "Notably, education and health, which receive the bulk of
provincial public expenditures, would be the focal point of our next generation of provincial reform
operations." In this respect, secondary education is considered the main challenge since Argentina's
secondary school age youth is less schooled than those of countries with similar income levels.
lb. Investment in education improvement is crucial to sustain growth and efforts to enhance the
effectiveness of needed investment outlays. This is especially true for secondary education, since the
quality of education provided at this level has deteriorated compared to international standards: "A
survey in 1993 indicated that 40% of students completing secondary education did not read and write up
to acceptable standards."
c. Argentine provinces need to target social assistance to the poorest sections of the population.
Unnfortunately, provincial governments, which execute more than 80 percent of social expenditures
(excluding social security), are hampered by "a lack of targeting to priority beneficiaries."
1. The Bank should support efforts to improve the decentralized management of the education sector:
"the process of decentralization has increasingly forged a link between the institutional capacity of sub-
national governments and the human and infrastructure development required to put the country on a
susitained growth path."
The proposed project complements two ongoing projects, the Decentralization and Improvement of
Secondary Education projects I and II (loans 3794-AR and 3971-AR). The objectives of these
operations are to facilitate the decentralization of secondary education to the provinces, strengthen
provincial institutions, improve resource management and target more resources to the poorest schools.
The project of the Province of Buenos Aires directly responds to those broad CAS objectives by: (i)
increasing the decentralized capacities to expand secondary education coverage; (ii) enhancing quality
through the provision of education resources and the improvement of school management; and targeting
those schools serving poor and educational at-risk students.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues:
Experiencing rapid economic changes, with a more open economy and a dominant service sector
(approximately 75% of employment), Argentina requires more and better qualified workers. In this
scenario, adequate education of the workforce is even more crucial in order to achieve higher
employment rates and ensure the country's international competitiveness and continued growth. The
Province of Buenos Aires (PBA), with more than 13 million inhabitants and producing about 35% of the
national GDP is particularly affected by the new labor market standards. Based on a survey of private
employers, a 1997 study concluded that applicant prerequisites have been substantially raised due to new
productive process and growing competition in the labor market. The completion of secondary education
is now a minimum requirement to enter formal employment. In fact, a recent study indicates that 73% of



Page 4
the unemployed between the ages of 14 and 24 did not finish secondary school.
With the passage of a comprehensive Federal Education Law in 1.993, Argentina has taken important
steps to restructure primnary and secondary education. Some of these changes include modifying the
curriculum and increasing mandatory Basic Education education from 7th to 9th grade (third cycle of
EGB). The PBA has the largest educational system in the country (roughly 4 million students and
300,000 teachers). Also, it is more advanced than the other provinces of Argentina in the implementation
of the education reforrn. For example, it completed the building of needed infrastructure for the new
EGB (Basic Education) 8th grade one year in advance of the federal Govermment timetable and in March
1998, the first cohort of students are expected to enter the new 9th grade. The Province is also
contemplating: passing a provincial law that would make the Pol:modal level (from 10th to 12th grade)
mandatory; raising the education budget in order to finance the expansion; increasing teachers' salaries;
improving the conditions of services; and creating a scholarship program for underprivileged children.
In spite of these efforts, the Province of Buenos Aires is still facing several education issues:
a. Low secondary school coverage, efficiency and equity: Although Argentina has one of the most
developed education systems in Latin America, it lags behind cornpeting nations with similar per capita
income. For instance, in the Province of Buenos Aires, although coverage at the secondary level is 67%
only 21.7% graduate, when in OECD secondary completion rates averages 77%. In Korea, a country
with a similar GDP per capita level, this rate reaches 92%.
Low educational efficiency at the secondary level in the Province of Buenos Aires is illustrated by the
schools inability to retain students. Drop-out and repetition rates are high, reaching more than 60% and
13.4% respectively. These coverage and efficiency issues are more acute in poverty areas.2 For
instance, only 52% of the population of the lower income quintile between the ages of 14 and 18 attend
school, while this number is 85% in the upper quintile; and drop out and repetitions rates are higher in the
proposed project's targeted schools serving low-income students, at 63% and 15.6% respectively.
b. Low quality and relevance of education: According to the recent evaluations, the quality of
education in Buenos Aires is low, especially in unprivileged areas. National standardized tests results for
the students in the last year of secondary school indicate that, although there has been some improvement
in the last 4 years, an important gap between the performance of low-income educationally at risk
students and more privileged students still persists.
Another important problem is the low relevance of what is taught in schools in relation to new societal
and market requirements. National youth unemployment rates (about 26% among the population
between 14 and 24 years of age who have completed secondary education) indicate that there is a
mismatch between what the education system provides and the needs of the economy (essentially service
jobs, representing 75% of the positions, which require individual with more advanced skills). This
mismatch translates into low student motivation and retention rates. This situation, in turn, has several
negative consequences, such as: more children and youth on the street; early entrance into the informal
labor market; violence; drug consumption; teenage pregnancy; etc. In fact, recent provincial statistics
indicate that, in the last five years, there has been a 40% increase in crime among youth under the age of
18.
c. Inefficient management and unbalanced spending: The main problems of the sector
management affecting both the central and school levels are the following: (i) lack of a coherent and
2Although Buenos Aires GDP per capita is approximately $7,000 there are large pockets of poverty in the
Province: 26.6% of the population is considered poor and 7% is in extreme poverty.



Page 5
accessible information system in order to better plan, monitor, and supervise the sector; (ii) slow and
inefficient paying system; (iii) lack of an educational quality evaluation system; (iv) inefficient
assignment and management of human resources; and (v) inefficient management of financial resources
andl high administrative cost.
The main consequence of these problems is unbalanced spending in the sector. Investment in education
has increased from 1.7% to 2.2% of GDP between 1992 and 1996, a level corresponding to international
standards. However, the Province is lagging behind in its expenditure on goods and services, a key for
the provision and maintenance of quality educational inputs. In 1996, expenditures in goods and services
corresponded to only 3% of the education budget. By contrast, OECD countries spent between 8 and
1 0%o of their education budgets on these inputs.
Secondary consequences, affecting the quality of the teaching process, are: (i) weakness of staff
management and lack of adequate control which lead to high levels of absenteeism; (ii) late pay checks,
the absence of incentives and insufficient attention to teachers working conditions which negatively effect
teachers' motivation and commitment; (iii) teachers' economic necessity to work in several schools
whiich hampers team work and pedagogic improvement; and (iv) centralized management which results in
lack of accountability among directors and teachers; the absence of a decentralized school budget for
maintenance; and little of information and participation among parents.
G;overnment Strategy:
a. At the Federal level: The federal Government has launched an ambitious reform program framed
by the Education Decentralization Law (1992), the Federal Education Law (1993), and the Higher
Education Law (1995). This program has four main areas: (i) the decentralization to the provinces of
responsibilities for secondary and technical education and teacher training institutions; (ii) the expansion
of mandatory education from 7 to 10 years; (iii) a curricular reform that establishes one year of pre-
school, nine years of Basic Education (EGB) and three years of Polymodal; (iv) an administrative reform;
and (v) the higher education reform. The federal Ministry of Culture and Education (MCE) is also
providing direct resources at the pre-school and primary education levels to ensure a smoother
transformation and reduce inequities (Plan Social Educativo). The government has requested continued
support from the Bank and the IDB for this reform package, particularly to strengthen decentralized
sector institutions and improve the quality of education.
b. At the Provincial level: Like every province, PBA signed an agreement with the federal
Government on the phasing of the education reform and on the federal financing to be allocated to the
Province (Federal Education Pact). In the last five years, the PBA increased its education budget at an
average annual rate of 15.5%. After almost three decades of very little of expenditure on infrastructure
and maintenance of school buildings, investment in this area has increased from approximately US$ 15
million in 1992 to approximately US$ 550 million in 1999. In March 1998, the first cohort of students
will enter the 9th grade of the new educational structure and in 1999 the Polymodal curriculum will start
to be implemented. To facilitate the transition to the new Polymodal curriculum, the Province has
launched the PTENM (Provincial Program for the Polymodal Transformation) which during its first
pha,se produced a diagnostic study of the situation of every secondary and technical school. In its second
phase, the PTENM is planning the transition of every secondary school to the new Polymodal curriculum.
Currently, the Province is also implementing the administrative reform agreed with the federal
Government. Furthermore, the Province is contemplating a provincial law that would make the
Polymodal level (from 10th to 12th grade) mandatory and would increase substantially the education
sector budget to finance the expansion, improve teachers' salary structure and condition of services, and
create a scholarship program for underprivileged children.



Page 6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector Issues to be addressed:
*  Low secondary school coverage, efficiency and equity: by increasing the transition rate between
EGB and the new Polymodal, and increasing retention rates at the Polymodal level.
* Low quality and relevance of education: by implementing the Polymodal transformation and
providing up to date educational resources and in-service teacher training in order to make school
more attractive to the youth and prepare them to meet new societal expectations (labor market, higher
education, etc.).
* Inefficient management and unbalanced spending: by imrproving school management and
pushing the implementation of the administrative reform at the provincial level.
Strategic choices:
A. Reinforcing the Bank's assistance for secondary education in the Province of Buenos Aires is
considered critical for the following reasons:
(1) The Province of Buenos Aires is more advanced than the other provinces of Argentina in the
implementation of the education reform. It completed the building of needed infrastructure for the new
EGB (Basic Education) 8th grade one year in advance of the federal Government timetable and in March
1998, the first cohort of students are expected to enter the new 9th grade. In addition, the PBA has a
strong institutional and fiscal base: according to the Bank's fiscal criteria, used to determine provincial
eligibility, the PBA has a sound financial position with very little debt.
(2) The Province has the single largest educational system in the country (roughly 4 million students and
300,000 teachers). These characteristics make the proposed project very likely to be taken as example by
the other provinces. This potential multiplier effect would benefit the country as a whole.
B. The proposed Secondary Education III project has been designed to complement and reinforce the two
ongoing secondary education projects. Together the three operations form a package which will
accelerate the implementation of the secondary education reform in the PBA. The three operations focus
on the following:
The Secondary Education I project, in the Province of Buenos Aires, will finance improvements in three
areas:
(1) Sector administration, including the implementation of (i) a decentralized model for sector
management; (ii) an human resources administration system; (iii) a financial administration system; (iv)
the simplification of administrative procedures; (v) a sector information system; (vi) a management and
maintenance plan of the sector infrastructure; and (vii) a quality evaluation system.
(2) Education quality, by (i) providing computer equipment to EGB3 and Polymodal schools and (ii)
implementing the second phase of the PTENM.
(3) School rehabilitation to accommodate the increasing demand diue to expansion of mandatory
education.
In addition, Secondary Education II project for the Province of Buenos Aires is financing:
(I) Essential educational resources (e.g., library, computer and science laboratories); and



Page 7
(2;) school-based improvement projects (Proyectos Institucionales Especificos - PIEs) in 200 secondary
sc]hools serving poor and low achieving students.
Secondary Education III will be linked to these two ongoing projects' components by:
(1;) Finalizing the expansion and rehabilitation of EGB schools, particularly of 9th grade classrooms, in
order to accommodate the growing demand due to the extension of mandatory education.
(2') In the 200 secondary schools targeted by Secondary Education II: assisting schools with the
transition to the Polymodal and improving school management by supporting the development of the PEI;
supporting an extracurricular program from youth; and providing supplementary educational materials
and training for 42 technical schools. In addition, the project will implement a quality monitoring and
evaluation system for the targeted schools connected to the provincial information system financed by
Secondary Education I.
(3Y) Connecting these investments on access and quality to the progress of the provincial education sector
administrative reform, supported by Secondary Education I.



Page 8
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                Category       Cost Incl.    % of       Bank-        % of
Contingencies   Total    financing     Bank-
(IJS$M) <(US$M)    f
(1) Expansion of Access:         Physical             141.0      83.0       93.0         66.0
*  Construction of classrooms for                     43.0       25.3       30.1         70.3
the 9th grade of the new EGB3
(7th to 9th grade of Basic
Education).
*  The rehabilitation of EGB                          91.(       53.6        58.2        64.0
schools.
*  The construction of bathrooms                       7.0        4.1        4.4         64.0
in EGB schools.
(2) Quality and Relevance       Physical and          27.4       16.2       24.7         90.2
Improvement:                    Institutional
building
*  Institutional strengthening at the                  4.5        2.7        4.4         96.2
school level.
*  Restructuring technical schools                     14.2       8.4        12.8        90.0
through the provision of up-to-
date educational resources and
in-service teacher training.
*  Establishment of school-based                        8.7       5.1        7.5         87.5
extracurricular programs for
youth.
(3) Project Administration      Administration          1.5       0.9        1.3         90.0
TOTAL                                     170       100         119          70.0
Note: Numbers may not add due to rounding
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
a. The project directly supports the implementation in the Province of the Federal Education Law
(Ley Federal de Educaci6n) passed in 1993. This Law established (i) the change in education structure
and curriculum; (ii) the extension of mandatory education from 7 to 10 years; (iii) the responsibilities of
the administrative bodies of the sector as well as of the school community; (iv) the increase of total public
education financing 20% annually.
b. The project directly supports the implementation of the Federal Education Pact (Pacto Federal
Educativo), a five year agreement passed in 1994 between the PBA and the federal Ministry of Culture
and Education (MCE) for the phasing of the reform between 1994 and 1999. Through this pact, it was
agreed to progressively increase education finance to achieve the objective set in the Federal Education



Page 9
Law and to coordinate efforts in order to: (i) construct and rehabilitate school infrastructure necessary for
the extension of mandatory education; (ii) provide teacher training for the implementation of the
education transformnation; (iii) expand access to education at all levels; (iv) improve education quality and
efficiency; and (v) provide computer, library and other pedagogic resources to the schools. The Province
of Buenos Aires has made progress in all these accounts.
c. More specifically, the project supports the Provincial Program for the Polymodal Transformation
(Programa de Transformaci6n Educativa para el Nivel Medio de la Provincia de Buenos Aires - PTENM)
which was launched by the Directorate General of Culture and Education Secondary Education
Department (DEMTyA), in order to implement the transition to the Polymodal. The PTENM consists of
three phases: (i) an in-depth diagnostic study of the situation of secondary and technical schools; (ii)
preparing the transformation and adoption of the new Polymodal curriculum by all secondary schools
based on the findings of the study (financed by the Secondary Education I project); and (iii) the
progressive implementation of the Polymodal in all secondary schools starting in 1999. The project will
facilitate the implementation of Polymodal in the 200 targeted schools.
d. The Province will present a detailed education sector administrative reform plan which includes: (i)
a decentralized model for sector management; (ii) a human resources administration system; (iii) a
fiinancial administration system; (iv) the simplification of administrative procedures; (v) a sector
information system; (vi) a management and maintenance plan of sector infrastructure; and (vii) a quality
evaluation system. This is a condition for project effectiveness.
3. Benefits and target population:
B enefits:
(a. is applicable to the whole universe, while the rest of the benefits are applicable to the 200 targeted
P'olymodal schools)
(all benefit goals are for 2001, unless otherwise noted)
a. Increased access to and equity in Basic Education: By building new classrooms for the new 9th
grade to implement the extension of obligatory education from 7th to 9th grade, the project expects to
increase the enrollment in 9th grade of EGB3 (7th to 9th grade of Basic Education) from 216,000 to
240,000. The expansion of access and mandatory education will increase the percentage of children from
high NBI (Unsatisfied Basic Needs index) families attending EGB3.
b. Increased participation and equity at the Polymodal level: The project expects to: (i) increase
transition rate from EGB3 to the Polymodal level from 93% to 98%; (ii) increase the percentage of youth
from high NBI families attending Polymodal, by targeting its investment at 200 educationally at-risk
Polymodal schools in high NBI areas; and (iii) increase the Polymodal graduation rate from 18.5% to
50% in these targeted schools.
Xc. Improved completion rate at the Polymodal level: By making Polymodal school more relevant and
attractive to secondary school-age youth, the project expects to increase the graduation rates as mentioned
above and decrease the repetition rate of Polymodal students from 15.6% to 7%. Consequently, the
inumber of secondary school-age youth in the streets are expected to decrease, causing several positive
externalities (spill over benefits). Experience demonstrates that when young people stay in school, they
are less likely to get involved in risky behavior such as: consumption of drugs, alcohol and tobacco,
involvement in violent behavior, early pregnancy, etc.
d. Improved relevance and quality of Polymodal education: By improving the relevance and
qluality of education provided at the school level the project will significantly contribute to increase



Page 10
participating Polymodal schools' students' achievement test scores in Spanish from 63.60% to 68.05%
and in Mathematics from 64.70% to 67.90%.
e. Improved employment perspectives for Polymodal graduates: By reconverting 42 technical
schools through the improvement and modernization of their educational resources, the provision of in-
service teacher training and the promotion of links to the private sector; the project expects to (i) increase
the number of collaboration arrangements (donations to the school, school selling services to the
companies, student intemships in the companies, etc.) between technical schools and the labor market
firms; and (ii) reduce by 30% the amount of time necessary for technical school graduates to enter the
labor market.
f. Improved sector and school management: The project will be linked to the improvement in
sector administration, partially financed by Secondary Education I. The improvements in this regard will
be also measured by the Project Monitor system. The expected benefits include: 10.8% increase in
provincial government expenditure in education; increase of investments destined to educational goods
and services in the education budget from 2.8% to 4%; decrease in the percentage of administrative
expenditures in the total education budget from 7.48% to 6.98%; and decrease in cost per secondary
education graduate. (see Annex 3)
Target population:
The project will especially target the 200 schools selected to receive the Basic Educational resources
financed by the Secondary Education II project. These schools serve low income (high NBI) students
and educationally at-risk students (measured by the Risk Level of Education Exclusion index - NREE).
NBI Low income students are more likely to be educationally at-risk. For example, the secondary school
drop-out rate for children that belong to poor households is ten times greater than for those belonging to
non-poor households.
The Expansion of Access component will affect a total of 4474 EGB schools buildings.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 3 years
Project coordination: As they are closely linked, Secondary Education Projects I, II and the proposed
project will be jointly managed under the UEP (the Project Implementation Unit of the Directorate
General of Culture and Education - PBA's DGCyE) which has been coordinating both ongoing
Secondary Education projects and a Basic Education IDB project (PRISE). The General Coordinator will
continue to manage all UEP operations while a Project Coordinator will be specifically responsible for
the three Secondary Education projects. Three Sub-coordinators (Infrastructure, Education and
Administrative Reform, respectively) will be in charge of all aspects pertaining to their area in the three
projects and answer to the Project Coordinator. In addition, the UEP has a team of 25 professionals
providing services for: contracting, accounting administration, auditing, legal, and educational
administration. The proposed project will finance about 50% of all UEP staff involved in the joint
management of these three projects.
Financial Management: The Province of Buenos Aires would maintain adequate financial management
systems --including accounting, financial reporting, and auditing systems-- to ensure that they can
provide the Bank accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures, in
accordance with: (i) the Financial Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing Handbook (Washington, D.C.:
World Bank, 1995), and (ii) the Bank's Operational Policy (OP) and Best Practice (BP) 10.02, dated July



Page 11
1996;. Efforts are being made on a country basis to discuss with the Government the revised Bank
financial management standards to comply with OP and BP 10.02, dated August 1997. With respect to
auditing, the Bank has confirmed that the Auditoria General de la Naci6n (AGN) is eligible to provide
audit preparation services as long as it meets criteria of independence, quality, capacity and timeliness in
the opinion of the Bank. The AGN is already auditing existing projects, including Education Sector
projects being implemented in the Province of Buenos Aires, and up to now the financial management of
Education Sector projects has been satisfactory.
Executing agencies:
The PBA's Directorate General of Culture and Education (DGCyE) will be the responsible and main
executing agency of the project. Under its responsibility, and managed by the UEP, several executing
agencies and main stakeholders (Cooperadoras and school communities) will be in charge of different
aspects of project implementation. These include:
(1) The UEP Infrastructure Unit and the Public Works office: will work in collaboration to implement
the "Expansion of Access" component: construction of 9th grade classrooms and rehabilitation of
secondary schools. The UEP Infrastructure Sub-Coordinator and the Public Works office of the DGCyE
will be in charge of planning, budgeting, managing and ensuring the quality of the public works.
(2) The Cooperadoras: are legal associations composed of parents, teachers and school administrators
raise and manage local voluntary contributions to supplement school budgets. They will administrate and
oversee the public works in their respective schools. Technical assistance and supervision will be
provided to the Cooperadoras at all stages by a team of inspectors financed by the project.
(3) The Secondary Education Department (Direcci6n de Educaci6n Media, Tecnica y Agraria -
DEITyA): will be in charge of designing and implementing the Institutionally Strengthening at the
School Level sub-component (ProFEI) consisting of training for and technical assistance to supervisors,
directors and teachers, with three objectives: (i) reconversion of supervisors to promoters of the
education transformation; (ii) increased management capacity and performance of school administrators;
and (iii) the development and implementation of a school-based plan (PEI) in every school. The
DEMTyA will also implement and supervise the school-based extracurricular activities program (AIJE),
the permanent quality monitoring and evaluation system and, in collaboration with the COPRET, the
reconversion of technical schools. The person selected as the UEP Education Sub-coordinator is also part
of the DEMTyA team. The DEMTyA is the adequate body to take on these responsibilities because it
prepared a school-by-school quantitative and qualitative diagnosis of the actual situation of the secondary
sub-sector for the first phase of the Program for the Polymodal Transformation (Programa de
Transformaci6n Educativa para el Nivel Medio - PTENM). Based on its findings and financed by the
Secondary Education I project, the DEMTyA is currently implementing the second phase of the PTENM
consisting of planning the transition of the secondary education sector to the new Polymodal curriculum.
(4) P'rovincial Council for Technical Education (COPRET): has analyzed the current situation of technical
schools and generated a proposal aimed at creating more links between the private sector and technical
schools in order to improve the employment perspectives of secondary education graduates. In this
project, the COPRET will, in collaboration with the DEMTyA, prepare and implement the reconversion
of 42 technical schools, among the 200 targeted schools, through the provision of up-to-date equipment
and in-service teacher training.
(5) The Administration Sub-Secretary: is in charge of implementing the administrative reform accorded
with the federal Government and supported by the Secondary Education I project. The proposed
Secondary Education III project, is linked to the advancements made in this area. The UEP



Page 12
Administrative Reform Sub-Coordinator is part of the Administration Sub-Secretary team.
(6) Schools Communities: composed mainly of teachers, students, parents and school administrators are
beneficiaries and participants of the project implementation. They will: (i) administrate the public works
in their school through the Cooperadoras; (ii) be provided wilh technical assistance and training under the
Institutional Strengthening at the School Level (ProFEI) for tlhem to improve school management and
develop the school PEI; (iii) run the Extracurricular Programs for the Youth (AIJE) sub-component at the
school level.
In addition, the federal Ministry of Culture and Education (MCE), currently coordinating the Secondary
Education I project and an IDB project, and implementing Secondary Education II, will provide technical
assistance to the UEP based on its experience with secondary education projects in five other provinces.
Particularly, the provincial DEMTyA will work in close coordination with the MCE to articulate the
interventions to the 200 secondary schools under both, the Secondary Education II project and the
Secondary Education III proposed project. To this end, the position of the Provincial Pedagogical
Coordinator required under the Secondary Education II project to coordinate the quality interventions in
each province will be filled by the UEP Education Sub-Coordinator.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
a. Quality intervention in all the secondary schools: It was decided to target the quality
interventions to the 200 schools already under Secondary Education II, instead of the whole universe, in
order to: (i) increase equity, since these schools serve low income educationally at-risk students; (ii)
work in schools where the existence of basic educational resources will help to increase the motivation of
school actors and facilitate the successful implementation of the Polymodal transformation; and (iii), in
the near future, utilize the lessons from this in-depth implementation of the Polymodal transformation in
200 schools to implement the transformation of all provincial secondary schools.
b. A semi-competitive Fund to finance school-based improvement projects: The original idea of a
fund was rejected due to the following reasons: (i) the current institutional structure is not prepared for
implementing this bottom-up approach to school financing; and (ii) school capacity and management
need to improve before schools can put forward quality proposals, particularly in the case of the poorer
schools. In the future, the evaluation of the school-based improvement projects (PIEs) being
implemented under the Secondary Education II project, and continued study of possible institutional
arrangements, will provide better instruments to work on the establishment of a Fund or other alternatives
for school-based improvements.
c. Institutional strengthening: It was decided not to include an ample provincial institutional
strengthening component in this project since those efforts, for the time being, are being financed by the
Secondary Education I project. Furthermore, this project will be linked to the progress achieved in this
area (see Strategic Choices section, B). A sub-component of Institutional Strengthening at the School
Level (ProFEI) will be financed in order to reconvert the role of the supervisors, improve school
management and assist in the development of the school PEI.
d. Teacher management and training: It was decided that this project will not include pre-service
teacher training nor teacher labor reform (which will be contemplated in another project under
preparation). It will only focus on the in-service training needed by teachers to help develop the PEI,
utilize the new technical education resources and improve their technical education subject content
knowledge.



Page 13
2. AMajor related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and' planned):
Sector Issue                     Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Need to strengthen the institutional  Secondary Education I          S                S
capacity of the provincial ministries of  (AR-5992)
education and to increase the coverage and
quality of secondary education.
Need to improve the quality of secondary   Secondary Education II    S                S
education.                            (AR-6057)
Other development agencies
Need to improve quality and coverage of   PRISE - Programa de       N/A              N/A
prirmary education in targeted areas.  Reformas e Inversiones en
Educaci6n, IDB
(AR-0122)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A review of operational and policy experiences and of existing literature and studies offered the
following lessons that are relevant to the proposed project:
a. Simple project design: Simplicity in the design of a project assure successful implementation.
This lesson stems from the difficulties faced during the first stages of the implementation of Secondary
Education I due to its complexity. The proposed project only has two components and simple
implementation mechanisms.
b. Creditworthiness: The Bank's experience with Argentine and other provincial projects around the
world, indicates that creditworthy sub-national governments are likely to be more successful in project
implementation. As it is reflected in the proposed project's financial analysis (Annex 6), recent credit
ratings for the Province of Buenos Aires indicate that the province is creditworthy.
c. Synchronization with government policies: Experience in Argentina (Secondary Education I)
shows that synchronizing the implementation of the project with government policy and/or different
stages of the reform is crucial to avoid administrative and implementation delays or obstacles. The
implementation activities of this project are designed to coincide with the timetable of the implementation
of the Polymodal transformation in the Province of Buenos Aires.
dl. Articulation with ongoing secondary education projects: Bank operational experience indicates
that, especially in countries as large as Argentina, not one single project can work on all sector issues
(e.g., sector management, education quality) at all levels (e.g., federal, provincial, school levels). In some
cases, the most effective alternative is to articulate the components of several projects working at
different levels. This is the approach that we have adopted for the Secondary Education I, II and III (see



Page 14
Strategic Choices and Annex 2, Project Articulation Description and Graph, for a detailed description).
e. Role of the private sector: Studies show that participation of the private sector in education
improves efficiency and increases resources allocated to the sector. Furthermore, it provides better
linkages between the education offered in the schools and the labor market requirements. The proposed
project will provide incentives for schools, particularly technical ones, to seek collaborative arrangements
(exchange of services, donations, internships, etc.) with private sector firms.
f. School community participation: Experience in other Latin American countries (i.e. Brazil and El
Salvador) demonstrates that strong school community participation in the education process has many
advantages (e.g., increased accountability, greater communication, improved school management). With
this in mind: (i) the first phase of the PTENM, a diagnostic study, included consultation with teachers,
parents, school administrators, supervisors and students; (ii) the second phase of the PTENM, supported
by the Secondary Education I project and the proposed project, will involve the school community in the
decision making process required to transform secondary schools into Polymodal schools; (iii) the
technical assistance and training provided under the InstitutionaLl Strengthening at the School Level
(ProFEI) sub-component will foster consultation, particularly for the development of the school PEI; and
(iv) the Extracurricular Programs for the Youth (AIJE) sub-comnponent will promote local community
involvement in at least 60% of the programs.
g. Institutional strengthening: Experience shows that an adequate institutional capacity at the
central level is crucial to the success of the project. Since the project is linked to the Secondary
Education I project, which focuses on administrative reform, the proposed project does not necessary to
include an ample institutional strengthening component at the provincial level. At the school level,
however, the proposed project will strengthen the schools' institutional and management capacity through
the ProFEI. This will be facilitated by a transparent quality monitoring and evaluation system.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The legal framework and provincial commitment are conducive to the implementation of the reform. The
PBA passed the Provincial Education Law in 1995, which endorsed the transformation launched by the
Decentralization Law (1992) and Federal Education law (1993). Additionally, the PBA and the Federal
Government signed the Federal Education Pact in which, among other things, the Province agrees on the
phasing cf the reform between 1994 and 1999 (see Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the
project, above). Currently, a provincial project of law to extendl mandatory education to the Polymodal
has been submitted to the provincial legislator.
More importantly, the PBA is more advanced, in comparison to most other provinces, in the
implementation of the reformn. It has shown commitment to the reform through: the implementation of
8th grade of EGB one year in advance (1997); preparation of a diagnostic study (phase one of the
PTENM) for the Polymodal transformation; initial efforts to strengthen its institutional capacity and to
increase resource allocated to the sector. In addition, the provincial Law 12081 was recently passed to
create an Education Fund of US$ 300 million which will be utilized to restructure teachers' pay scales
and increase their salaries. The most important actions that demonstrate provincial commitmnent to the
goals of the proposed project are:
* The Provincial Council for Technical Education (COPRET) was created by a provincial law in 1995,
to lead the transformation of technical secondary schools in the Province. Headed by a leadership
that is well connected in the private sector, the COPRET has made important progress in this area
through: the identification of the issues affecting technical education, a proposal of several types of
collaboration between schools and the private sector, proposals for teacher training in technical
education, and the implementation and evaluation of pilot reorganizations of technical schools.



Page 15
* The Secondary Education Department (DEMTyA) of the DGCyE has taken the lead in the Polymodal
transformation. It has prepared a school by school quantitative and qualitative diagnostic study of
secondary education which includes: socio-economic mapping of student population, identification of
at-risk students, identification and analysis of sub-sector's internal inefficiencies, consultation with
teachers, school administrator, supervisors, parents and students. Based on the findings of this study,
The DEMTyA will lead the implementation of the Education Quality and Relevance component of
the proposed project.
The Administration Sub-Secretary of the DGCyE team, in charge of the Administrative Reform, has
confirmed the current and near-future implementation of five institutional reforms necessary for the
feasibility and sustainability of the quality improvements financed under the proposed project. These
reforms are: (i) decentralized school budgets for maintenance, particularly in technical schools; (ii)
concentration of teaching hours in the same school; (iii) incentives for teachers tied to training and
the teaching hours concentration; (iv) availability of paid staff hours and school facilities for the
development of extracurricular activities; and (v) decentralized sector management and information
network to support the reconversion of school supervisors.
The UEP's team of architects and planners, based on previous experience with the IDB's PRISE
project, have presented a coherent infrastructure program which includes enrollment projections,
targeting criteria, and pedagogically appropriate classroom plans.
.5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's financial and technical assistance will provide valuable contribution to the project's design
and implementation, particularly because:
*  The Bank has substantial lending experience with Argentine provinces. In the ongoing Secondary
Education I project, the Bank is working with seven provinces, and the Secondary Education II
project is financing secondary schools in all provinces. Furthermore, two Public Sector reform loans
are also working directly with provincial governments.
T The Bank provides a balanced expert opinion in project design and implementation. The transition to
the Polymodal, with its physical requirements, initially prompted the PBA to emphasize investment in
infrastructure as the main component of the project. Through continuous dialogue and cooperation
between the Province and the Bank, the Province has redefined the project's priorities and restated its
commitment to institutional strengthening and education quality interventions.
The Bank's team offers expertise and familiarity with the latest international developments on
technical education, an area which the PBA intends to radically reform.
The Bank has accumulated experience in the design and implementation of school-based programs
for youth, particularly in Chile in the framework of the Bank's secondary education project (MECE
Media).
Bank team members are available to contribute cross-country knowledge and experience, with links
to operations in Chile and Uruguay.
]E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)



Page 16
1. Economic (see Annex 5):
a. Cost-Benefit Analysis: Public finance of expansion of government school enrollment capacity and
quality improvements are justified by the externalities generated by household expenditures on Basic
Education. Equally important, it is justified by its potentially considerable positive income distribution
effects. The rate of return to an additional year of Basic Education from increased income alone is about
10 %. Including the consumption value of education and the social gain from externalities (e.g. reduced
juvenile delinquency, increased social capital and lower governance cost) the social rate of return could
arguably raise the rate of return to a much higher level. With respect to income distribution, as
enrollment rate approaches 100 percent, the additional students will increasingly be coming from poor
families. These families can further benefit from quality improvements that would be brought about by
the project, insofar as their children are able to acquire better cognitive and affective skills that are greatly
valued in the labor market.
b. Cost Effectiveness Analysis: The question is how to expand the capacity of the education system
to accommodate additional enrollment in the 9th grade and ensure that existing schools, many of which
are old and dilapidated, fit the requirements of the new curriculum and quality improvement efforts. In
order to answer this question in a cost-effective manner, the PBA analyzed three major options: (i) new
schools, (ii) total renovation, and (iii) construction of additional classrooms, rehabilitation and
enhancement. The last option was chosen as the best approach because it is significantly cheaper, less
disruptive, and appropriate for existing schools needing additional classrooms to meet increased
community demand. With respect to construction methodology the Province examined two choices: (i)
industrial technology and (ii) traditional construction method. The second option was chosen because it
favors decentralization and community involvement, employment of local labor and materials, and lower
unit cost of construction and maintenance.
2. Financial (see Annex 6):
A Financial analysis was performed to evaluate the recent fiscal performance of the Province of Buenos
Aires and the fiscal impact of the proposed Secondary Education III project. The main purpose was to
establish whether the Province has sufficient resources to finance both future debt service generated by
the project and incremental operational costs generated by the physical investments conducted under the
project.
The conclusion is that the project would have a relatively minor fiscal impact. When fully disbursed, the
$119 million loan would represent only 1.2 percent of projected current revenues, and the debt service on
this loan would represent only 0.1 or 0.2 percent of current revenues. The classroom expansion
programmed for the project would lead to additional operational costs for maintaining the newly
expanded schools. These additional annual operational costs are estimated, by the Province, to be in the
range of $26 million to $38 million, representing only 1.1 to 1.6 percent of total 1996 educational
expenditures.
3. Technical:
The project is technically justified on the basis of the importance and the public nature of the problem it
addresses. It is responding to this problem in a cost effective and appropriate manner by:
(1) Ensuring the urgent implementation of mandatory Basic Education up to the 9th grade of EGB, in a
Province that has taken the lead of the national education reform and which serves almost half of the
Argentine students.
(2) Facilitating the Polymodal curricular transformation: the project has adequately targeted its



Page 17
intervention to 200 at risk secondary schools, serving approximately 20% of the total number of
secondary level students in the Province.
(3) Addressing the lack of interest of the youth on schooling by providing more attractive educational
services, involving students in extracurricular activities and raising the job expectations.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The Provincial government is committed and institutionally ready to
iimplement the project (see Indications of borrower commitment and ownership, above). The DEMTyA,
the COPRET, and the Administration Sub-Secretary of the DGCyE are working collaboratively and
effectively among each under the UEP management. In order to ensure that school Cooperadoras fulfill
their responsibilities, they will be provided with appropriate technical assistance and supervision by a
team of inspectors financed by the project.
b. Project management: The UEP is satisfactorily coordinating two Bank projects (Secondary
E,ducation I and II) and one IDB project at the provincial level. In order to manage the three Secondary
E]ducation projects in an articulated manner, the UEP has been appropriately reorganized and staffed.
The UEP's dynamic working relations and open communication with the primary executing agencies
established during project preparation will facilitate project management. When necessary, based on its
texperiences in five other provinces, the MCE will provide technical assistance to the UEP.
5. Social (see Annex 7):
A social assessment was carried out during project preparation. Its primary objectives were to evaluate
the impact of the education reform supported by this project in the poor areas and identify the social
obstacles to its implementation. The secondary objectives were to review the stakeholders' views and
possible social impact of three specific areas of the proposed project: the extracurricular program (AIJE),
the improvement of the skills of secondary graduates in order to facilitate entrance in the labor markets,
and the improvement of learning processes in secondary schools. Thirty-six focus groups were held with
primary stakeholders: teachers, parents, students and community organization representatives. The main
results of the focus groups were: (i) there is a consensus on the need to reform and improve secondary
education, (ii) teachers and principals are very committed to the reform, while parents are not well
informed about the reform and show weaker commitment; (iii) all stakeholders want to be consulted; (iii)
stakeholders, particularly teachers, feel there are some time and legal constraints to the implementation of
t'he AIJE program; and (iv) students perceive that there are few job opportunities for them.
The assessment concluded that the proposed project will adequately respond to the social issues raised by
tlhe stakeholders by including the following: (i) an adequate mix of quantitative and qualitative measures
to improve secondary education; (ii) a participatory approach, particularly in the Institutional
Strengthening (ProFEI) and AIJE sub-components; (iii) specific administrative measures will increase the
time that teachers can dedicate to the implementation of the AIJE; and (iv) the implementation of the new
FPolymodal curriculum aimed at improving the relevance of secondary education.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category    [ ] A   []B    [XI C
According to Bank regulations, an environmental assessment is not necessary for this project.
7. Participatory approach



Page 18
The primary beneficiaries of the project at the school level are: school principals, teachers, parents,
students and some community organizations. These key actors were consulted during:
(1) A participatory diagnostic study of the situation of every secondary schools in the Province (first
phase of the PTENM). This study included interviews with 2100 scliool administrators, 60 supervisors,
2151 teachers, 924 parents and 1725 students.
(2) A Social Assessment, carried out during project preparation in order to evaluate the impact of the
education reform supported by this project in the poor areas and ideritify the possible social obstacles to
its implementation (see Social Assessment above).
Project design reflects the results of these participatory studies. Consequently, during project
implementation participation will be fostered by: (i) Involving primary stakeholders in the decision
making required to prepare and implement the Polymodal transformation (second and third phases of the
PTENM) supported by the Secondary Education I project and the proposed project respectively; (ii)
providing technical assistance and training which foster consultation with all members of the school
community, particularly for the development of the school PEI; and (iii) promoting local community
involvement in at least 60% of the programs of the Extracurricular Programs for the Youth (AIJE) sub-
component.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project would be sustainable because:
(1) The federal and provincial governments are committed to the education reform supported by the
project.
(2) The project would have a relatively minor fiscal impact (see Financial analysis, above).
(3) The primary executive agencies are part of the established structure of the Directorate General of
Culture and Education.
(4) Primary stakeholders have been consulted and are actively participating in the project implementation.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "Goal to Bank Mission"
(1) The upcoming 1999 Presidential and provincial  M        The project has been simplified in order
elections; the continuity of the federal policy on          to fit into a three year implementation
education; and the stability of Province                    period and includes a participatory
administration and higher level staff in charge of the      aplproach to involve all key
education policy.                                           stakeholders.
(2) Weak commitment of the Province to implement   L        The Province of Buenos Aires will
the Administrative Reform agenda agreed with the            provide a detailed plan for the
Federal Government.                                         implementation of the education sector
administrative reform for project



Page 19
effectiveness.
Annex 1, cell "Objective to Goal"
(3) Lack of continued demand for the EGB3              L        According to the economic analysis, a
continued expansion of demand for
EGB3 and secondary education is
expected (see Annex 5).
(4) Unwillingness of private firms to collaborate      L        The reconversion of technical schools
with technical schools                                          and the fiscal credit given to private
firms working with schools will foster
collaboration. The COPRET has
specifically been created to stimulate
this collaboration.
Annex 1, cell "Outputs to Objective"
(5) Inefficient administration could affect the timely  M       The following has been included: (i) a
and synchronized school level implementation of the             project design which links the
various educational inputs necessary to improve                 institutional changes supported by the
quality.                                                        Secondary Education I project to the
proposed project; (ii) a single project
implementation unit (UEP) working
directly with the Administration Sub-
Secretary and the Secondary Education
Department; (iii) a limited intervention
in 200 target secondary schools.
(6) Low teachers salaries and difficult conditions     H        Three measure are expected to
might affect the participation of the teachers in the           minimize this risk: (i) the Province has
transformation process.                                         created an Education Fund (provincial
Law 12081) of US$ 300 million
which will be utilized to restructure
teachers' pay scales and increase
their salaries; (ii) institutional
measures will aim at concentrating
teaching hours in the same school and
improving timely payment of salaries;
and (iii) the project's participatory
training and technical assistance will be
design in order to foster teachers'
motivation.
(7) In most of the schools considered in the project,  H        Two components will make the school
which deal with the lower income population,                    more attractive to these teenagers: (i)
teenagers feel alienated from and reject their school.          participatory extra-curricular activities;
(ii) computer laboratories and the
multi-media libraries, financed under
the Secondary Education II project; and
(iii) up-to-date technical equipment in
42 technical schools, to be financed by
the proposed project.
Overall Risk Rating       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 20
3. Possible ControversialAspects:
The willingness of teachers needed in order to implement the proposed reform and the Polymodal
transformation is untested, while continuing rotating strikes and protests by teachers' unions cloud labor-
management relations. The project will improve the timely payment of teachers and the Province will
create a fund to raise their salaries. However, the improvement of the condition of services (procedure
and practice on appointment, deployment, promotion, discipline and transfer), labor relations (code of
conduct, conflict resolution, etc.) and professional support (staff development, teachers organization,
career paths, recognition mechanisms) are also key to increase teacher motivation and professionalism.
These improvements will require a reform in teacher management; a process that will be supported by a
project under preparation and will take much longer that the duration of the proposed project. During the
life of the this project, however, the measures mentioned above (see risk number 6) will minimize the
risks.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
- The Province will provide a detailed plan for the implementation of the education sector administrative
reform program described above.
- Signing of a subsidiary counterguarantee agreement between the Borrower and the Guarantor.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]: none
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation. [] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] Implementation of the project is already underway, particularly the construction of 9th grade
classrooms. Substantial retroactive financing of approximately 25 % of loan amount is included in
project.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



Page 21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[X]  The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:
An increase of retroactive financing from 10% to 25% of total loan was approved on February 10, 1998.
Task Team Leac\er/Task Manager: William Experton
Acting Sector Manager/Director: Xavier Coll
Country Manager/Director: Myrna Alexander






Annex 1
PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Third Secondary Education Project
Project Design Summary
Notes:
All key performance goals are for 2001, unless otherwise indicated.
* refer to indicators for the 200 targeted schools only.
Narrative Summary          Key Performance            Monitoring and          Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                      (Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Investing in long-term  Increased access to Basic    Project Evaluation Report   Continuity of the Federal
human resource            Education, particularly of                          education policy.
development by increasing   the poor.
economically active                                                           Commitment and stability of
population with secondary   Increased quality and                             the Provincial govemment
eclucation.               relevance of what is taught                         education policy.
in 200 targeted at-risk
2. Increased quality of   Polymodal schools.*
edlucation services.
3. Increased access of the
poor to basic social services.
Project Development                                                           (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
1. Improve the completion   Increase in enrollment in 9th  PMR                Continued demand for
rate of secondary level   grade of EGB3 from                                  EGB3 and Polymodal
students.                 216,000 to 240,000                                  education.
Increase in transition rate    PMR
between EGB3 and
Polymodal from 93% to
98%.
Increase in completion rate   PMR
of Polymodal level 18.5% to
50%.*
2. Improve the learning   Increase in the achievement  Standardized Achievement
process at the school level.  scores in Spanish and  Test Report /PMR
Mathematics in Polymodal
schools measured in the last
grade of this level.
Spanish from 63.60% to
68.05% and Mathematics
from 64.70% to 67.90%.*



Reduction of repetition rate  PMR
from 15.6% to 7%.*
3. Improve the skills of  30% reduction of time     PMR                       Willingness of private firms
secondary graduates in    necessary for graduates to                         to collaborate with technical
order to facilitate entrance   enter the labor market.* (a                    schools.
in the labor market.     study will determine the
baseline)
Outputs:                                                                      (Outputs to Objective)
1. Access:
1.1. New 9th grade        1,336 new 9th grade       PMR                       Province in able to construct
classrooms to accommodate  classrooms.                                        and rehabilitate
the demand for EGB3                                                           infrastructure as scheduled.
created by the extension of
mandatory education.
1.2. Increased proportion of  1755 rehabilitated schools.   PMR
EGB schools in satisfactory
physical condition.                                 PMR
2. Quality and relevance:
2.1. Supervisors that are  100% of provincial       PMR                       Efficient administration for
promoters of the education   supervisors trained to                          the timely and synchronized
transformation.           provide guidance,                                   school level implementation
monitoring and supervision                          of the various educational
during the development and                          inputs necessary to improve
implementation of school-                           quality (education
based plans (PEI).*                                resources, training, etc.).
2.2. Improved school      Provision of training and  PMR
management.              technical assistance on
schools management to 80%
of school principals and
vice-principals on: school
management, administration
and pedagogical
supervision.*
2.3. Development and      100% of PEIs, containing    PMR                     Teachers are able and
implementation of school-   clear school objectives and                       willing to participate in
based plans (PEI).        strategy to achieve them.*                         transformation.
Increase in the percentage    Social Assessment report/
of teachers that work in  PMR
team from 20% to 60%.*



2.4. Improved technical   69 technical "basic module"  PMR
eclucation                of equipment installed and
functioning.*
350 technical school      PMR
teachers trained in the
utilization of the equipment
and technology subject
contents. *
Schools actively          PMR
implementing a plan to
increase collaboration with
the labor market (including:
following-up graduates
insertion in the labor
market, establishing
interships, getting donations
from firms and selling
goods and/or services to
firms)*
2.4. Implementation of    25% of students            Social Assessment report/   Adequate incentives for
School-based              participating in AIJE.*    PMR                        students participation.
extracurricular activities
programs.                 50% of extracurricular     Social Assessment report!
programs that foster      PMR
collaboration between the
school an the community.*
Project Components/Sub-  Inputs:                                                (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2
for project description)
1. Expansion of Access:   US$M 141.0                                            Directorate General of
Culture and Education/UEP
1.l. Construction of      US$M 43.0                  Project Statistics         capacity
classrooms for the 9th grade
of the new EGB3 (7th to 9th
graLde of Basic Education).
1.2. Rehabilitation of EGB    US$M 91.0              Project Statistics
schools.
1.3. Construction of school   US$M 7.0               Project Statistics
bathrooms in the EGB
schiools.
2. Quality and Relevance    US$M 27.4
Improvement:
Project Statistics
2.1. Institutional        US$M 4.6



strengthening at the school
level.                                                   Project Statistics
2.2. Restructuring technical  US$M 14.2
schools through the
provision of up-to-date
educational resources and
in-service teacher training.                             Project Statistics
2.3. Establishment of       US$M 8.7
school-based extracurricular
programs for youth.                                      Project Statistics
3. Project Administration    US$M 1.5



Annex 2
PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Third Secondary Education Project
Project Description
The Third Secondary Education Project has the following Development Objectives:
(1) Increase access to third cycle of Basic Education and Polymodal secondary level.
(2) Improve the learning process in the targeted Polymodal schools.
(3) Improve the skills of Polymodal graduates in order to facilitate entrance in the labor market
In order to accomplish these objectives the project has three main components: (1) Expansion of Access; (2)
Improvement of Education Quality and Relevance; and (3) Project Administration. A detailed description of
these component follows:
Project Component 1 - Expansion of Access (total component cost of 141.0 US$ million)
Investments in school construction and rehabilitation has been neglected for a long time until about 1992.
Consequently, most school facilities are in precarious conditions. These facilities are not adequate to
accommodate the demand, in particular now that the Province of Buenos Aires (PBA) has extended mandatory
education from seven to nine years of Basic Education (EGB) divided into three cycles (EGB 1, EGB2 and
EGB3). In order to expand access to mandatory Basic Education and increase the number of students eligible to
enter the new three-year Polymodal secondary education, the Expansion of Access component includes:
(i) The construction of classrooms for the 9th grade of the new EGB3 (7th to 9th grade of Basic Education);
(ii) The rehabilitation of EGB schools; and
(iii) The construction of school bathrooms in the same schools.
Each EGB school affected by this component has a single "civil work project" which articulates all the civil
works intervention. In this way, interventions do not pile up on top of each other, but follow a school building
global plan. The school Cooperadoras (legally constituted associations composed by parents, teachers and school
administrators in charge of raising and administrating local voluntary contributions to the school) will pre-select
local companies to take on the construction and rehabilitation works, with the final selection and hiring done by
the UEP. A team of inspectors financed by the project will assist the Cooperadoras and provide technical
assistance during the rehabilitation and construction works. This approach will optimize resources as local small
companies' labor is cheaper than larger construction companies' and the Cooperadoras' constant involvement
will keep companies accountable.
Project Component 2 - Improvement of Education Quality and Relevance (total component cost of 27.4
US$ million)
This component will be targeted to 200 unprivileged and educationally at-risk Polymodal schools. It is composed
by three sub-components which deal with interconnected aspects of quality and relevance of secondary education:
(i) Institutional strengthening at the school level (Programa de Fortalecimiento Educativo Institucional -



ProFEI): The institutional characteristics of the school and the education sector as a whole greatly affect the
quality of the education provided. Weak institutions lack a mission and the capacities to effectively plan and
manage their activities towards specific objectives. This weaknesses translates into deficiencies in the provision
of services such as high teacher absenteeism, lack of motivation, inadequate utilization of educational inputs, lack
of communication among school stakeholders, unprepared classroom lesson, among others. In order to
counteract this reality in most secondary schools in the PBA, this sub-component will finance three programs
directly directed to the school level and the school supervisors:
a. Training for Supervisors: This will be done in two phases. In the first phase, all the provincial school
supervisors will receive training to teach them how to guide, monitor and supervise the development of the
school-based plan (Proyecto Educativo Institucional - PEI). This training is aimed at transforming the
supervisors from a mere administrators to a more proactive promoter of the educational transformation. During
the second phase, the supervisors working with the targeted school will be given a more specific and intensive
training to improve their technical assistance and evaluation skills. Its is expected that after the project's
completion, these supervisors will take on the roles and responsibilities of the project-funded "Orientadores" in
the provision of continuos assistance for the institutional development of the schools.
b. Training and technical assistance for school administrative teams: School principal and vice-principal will be
provided with training and technical assistance on school management, institutional administration, pedagogical
supervision and the elaboration and implementation of a plan to increase collaborations between the school and
the labor market (see (ii)c. bellow). These skills will also be strongly linked to the managerial leadership they
will progressively take in the formulation of the school PEI.
c. Technical assistance for the development of the school PEI: A school PE1 Committee, a representative group
of school stakeholders (principals, vice-principals, department heads, other teachers, etc.), will be provided with
direct technical assistance to guide the participatory development of the school PEI. The PEI will be developed in
four phases: (i) an institutional diagnostic of the school; (ii) the identification of institutional objectives based on
the diagnostic; (iii) the elaboration of the PEI document; and implementation of specific PEI activities. The main
provider of technical assistance, the local "Orientador," will regularly visit the school to facilitate the creation of
meeting and discussion spaces among school stakeholders, propose work strategies for the development of the
PEI, provide consultation and training materials, etc.
d. Implementation of a permanent quality evaluation and monitoring system for the 200 targeted schools: This
system will be developed as a pilot in conjunction with the improvement of the information system financed by
the Secondary Education I project. It will supports project implementation and generate the needed knowledge
about education reform at the secondary level by carefully monitoring the impact indicators and producing
evaluation reports.
e. Pilot Experimentation of high standard curriculum and evaluation process corresponding to the International
Baccalaureat (IB) in five of the targeted schools: This will include seminars which will promote exchanges with
schools already implementing the IB and intensive training of some selected teachers.
(ii) Restructuring technical schools: In order to prepare their students to meet the new market requirements, the
education offered by the PBA technical schools has to become more relevant to the technological, economic and
societal changes. Moreover, the quality of the education provided in technical schools, particularly attracting
underprivileged youth, has to improve. With these objectives, 42 targeted technical, among the 200 targeted
schools serving unprivileged youth, will be restructured through:
a. The provision of up-to-date educational resources: Each school will receive a "basic module" of equipment
and resources which corresponds to its Trayectos Tecnicos Profesionales (TTP) or specialty. Thus there will be
five "basic modules" for five TTPs (organizational management, electronics, food processing industry, chemical
processing industry, electromechanics, construction and agricultural production). The concept of "basic module"



was selected to: provide the same technical basis for a specific TTP in all schools; facilitate the provision of
teacher training in relation to the modules; permit and promote exchanges among schools (mobility of teachers,
transfer students, sharing of experiences, shared utilization of equipment, etc.); and ease project implementation.
b. In-service teacher training in two areas: (1) training on the utilization of the technical education equipment and
resources and (2) training on technical education pedagogical practices and subject content
c. Promotion of the creation of links between the technical schools and the private sector: This will be achieved
by promoting donations from private firmns to the schools with the "credito fiscal" system and providing technical
assistance and training to school administrative teams to implement, under the PEI, a plan to increase
collaborations between the school and the labor market. Among the actions that will be included in this plan are:
following-up graduates insertion in the labor market, establishing interships, getting donations from firms and
selling goods and/or services produced by the school to firms.
(iii) Establishment of school-based extracurricular programs for the youth (Programa de Apoyo a las
Iniciativas Juveniles en la Escuela - AIJE): The school culture prevailing in most Buenos Aires secondary
schools does not promotes formal or informal youth involvement. On the contrary, schools are usually isolated
from youth and local community initiatives and activities. This situation is particularly acute in poverty areas. To
counteract this situation, the AIJE program intends to actively involve youth people in extracurricular activities in
the school. The goals are to provide attractive alternatives for youth which are prone to getting involved in risky
behavior (alcoholism, drugs, early pregnancy, etc.), improve the communication between teachers and students,
make the school more attractive to students, and promote collaboration between the school and the local
community. The implementation of this sub-component will entail:
a. Technical assistance, training, and financial support for the participatory formulation and implementation of the
school AIJE project: The school will form a AIJE school committee conformed by one or two teachers, one
parent, one student, and one community representative in charge of leading the formulation and implementation
of the AIJE. Each AIJE project will consist of two type of activities, in areas such as communication, art,
community support, sports, elected by the school body. The AIJE committee members will be paid the equivalent
to 8 teaching hours per month. The necessary expenses to implement the AIJE projects will be covered through a
monthly per-student transfer to the participating schools. Projects that involve cooperation among schools and
with the local community will be promoted.
b. Project Competition: In order to reward the best projects an annual competition will take place. The reward is
a grant to complement AIJE financing which will allow the school to acquire more equipment or organize special
activities under the AIJE project. By the conclusion of the proposed project, most schools will have received a
reward.
c. Special activities and contests for participating schools: activities and contest such as sport games, art shows,
plays, school newspaper competitions, etc., will be funded to promote interactions among participating schools.
Project Component 3 - Project Administration (total component cost of 1.5 US$ million)
A provincial Project Implementation Unit (UEP) is already implementing Secondary Education I and II. The
same unit has been expanded in order to administer the proposed project. For the administration of the three
project, the UEP has been staffed with a total of 30 professionals, of which only 17 will be financed by the
proposed project. The UEP composition is as follows: One UEP General Coordinator, one Sub-Coordinator for
the three project, three Sub-Coordinators for the Infrastructure, Education and Administrative Reform which will
work across the three projects and a team of 25 junior professional in five support areas (contracting, auditing,
accounting administration, legal, and educational administration). The UEP will be responsible for the
compliance with Bank's financial monitoring and auditing requirements.



Annex 3
PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Third Secondary Education Project
Project Articulation Description
The proposed Secondary Education III project has been designed to complement and reinforce the two ongoing secondary
education projects. Together the three operations form a package which will accelerate the implementation of the
secondary education reform in the PBA. The three operations focus on the following:
The Secondary Education I project, in the Province of Buenos Aires, will finance improvements in three areas:
(1) Sector administration, including the implementation of (i) a decentralized model for sector management; (ii) an human
resources administration system; (iii) a financial administration system; (iv) the simplification of administrative
procedures; (v) a sector information system; (vi) a management and maintenance plan of the sector infrastructure; and
(vii) a quality evaluation system.
(2) Education quality, by (i) providing computer equipment to EGB3 and Polymodall schools and (ii) implementing the
second phase of the PTENM.
(3) School rehabilitation to accommodate the increasing demand due to expansion of mandatory education.
In addition, Secondary Education II project for the Province of Buenos Aires is financing:
(1) Essential educational resources (e.g., library, computer and science laboratories); and
(2) school-based improvement projects (Proyectos Institucionales Especificos - PIEs) in 200 secondary schools serving
poor and low achieving students.
Secondary Education III will be linked to these two ongoing projects' components by:
(1) Finalizing the expansion and rehabilitation of EGB schools, particularly of 9th grade classrooms, in order to
accommodate the growing demand due to the extension of mandatory education.
(2) In the 200 secondary school targeted by Secondary Education II: assisting schools with the transition to the
Polymodal and improving school management by supporting the development of the PEI; supporting an extracurricular
program from youth; and providing supplementary educational materials and training for 42 technical schools. In
addition, the project will implement a quality monitoring and evaluation system for the targeted schools connected to the
provincial information system financed by Secondary Education I.
(3) Connecting these investments on access and quality to the progress of the provincial education sector administrative
reforn, supported by Secondary Education I.
The following graph, illustrates the projects' articulation.



Annex 3
PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Third Secondary Education Project
Project Articulation Graph
Secondary Education I
- Administrative reform           US$ 8.2
- Rehabilitation of 8th grade                                  mprovng the management
classrooms                       US$ 7.6                        o
- Second phase of the polymodal                                    f the education sector
transformation (PTENM)           US$ 1.7     _
Loan TOTAL                       US$ 17.5
Secondary Education II
- Basic educational resources                                        xpanding access to
- School-based improvement                                    mandatory Basic Educatioil
projects (PIEs)                                                             E
Loan TOTAL                       US$47
Secondary Education III
- C'onstruction of 9th grade classrooms        ,                               t  *           of
and rehabilitation of EGB schools  US$94                       Impronng the quality of
- Improvement of Education        US$ 23.7                      education in 200 targeted
Quality and Relevance                                               polymodal schools
- P'roject implementation         US$ 1.3
Loan TOTAL                       US$ 119
Notes:
- Secondary Education I and II loan totals correspond to the portion of the loan directed to the Province of Buenos Aires.
- All dollar figures are in millions.



Annex 3
PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENT[NA
Third Secondary Education Project
Projects Objectives and Impact Indicators; chart
Project                          Objectives                    Indicators and Target
Secondary Education I            1. Improved sector management.     l.a. 10.8% increase in provincial
(indicators for sub-project                                         government expenditure in education.
corresponding to the PBA)                                           l.b. Increase of investment destined to
educational goods and services in the
education budget from 2,8% to 4%.
I.c. Decrease in the percentage of
administrative expenditures in the total
education budget from 7,48% to 6,9%.
l.d. Decrease in cost per secondary
education graduate.
Secondary Education II           1. Increase access to secondary    1. Secondary school enrollment from
(indicators for all participating  education.                       452,000 to 500,000 students.
provinces including PBA)        2. Reduce repetition rates.         2. Repetition rate from 10.4% to 9.4%.
3. Increase quality and efficiency of  3. Improvement in standardized test
secondary education.               results in mathematics, Spanish and
4. Increase efficiency in the utilization   science.
of educational resources.          4. Student-teacher ratio from 8.47 to 12.
Proposed Secondary Education m   1. Increase access to third cycle of  1. Increase in enrollment in EGB3 from
(Province of Buenos Aires)      Basic Education and           Polymodal   .... to 
secondary level                    2. Increase in transition rate between
2. Improve the learning process in  EGB3 and Polymodal from .... % to
Polymodal schools.                 .... %.*
3. Improve the skills of Polymodal  3. Increase in completion rate of
graduates in order to facilitate entrance  Polymodal level 18.5% to 50%.*
in the labor market.               4. Substantial increase in the
achievement scores of Polymodal school
students for Spanish and mathematics.*
5. Reduction of repetition rate from ....%
6. Significant reduction of time
necessary for graduates to enter the labor
market from .... to .*
(* only for the 200 targeted Polymodal schools)



Annex 4
PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Third Secondary Education Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                          Local              Foreign          Total
-----------------------US $ million--
Expansion of Access                                         131.7                0.3            132.0
Building classrooms                                        40.1                0.3             40.4
Rehabilitation of EGB schools                              85.2                -                85.2
Construction of bathrooms in EGB schools                    6.4                -                6.4
QiLality and Relevance Improvement                           15.6               11.0             26.7
Institutional strengthening at the school level             4.4                -                4.4
Restructuring technical schools                             2.8                -                13.8
Establishment of school-based extracurricular activities    8.4                -                8.4
for youth
Coordinating Unit                                             1.4                -                1.4
Total Baseline Cost                                         148.7                11.3           160.0
Physical Contingencies                                      8.0                -                8.0
Price Contingencies                                         1.8               0.2               2.0
To,tal Project Cost                                         158.5               11.5            170.0



Annex 5
PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Third Secondary Education Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary,
Note: The complete Cost Benefit Analysis Document is available upon request
The project has two main outputs: expansion of access to 9th grade education and increased quality of secondary
education in targeted schools. About 83 percent of total project cost will finance the first component, which essentially
aims to expand supply of 9th grade public school places for about 40,000 to 59,000 students per year. Ninth grade is the
last year of the compulsory basic education cycle, which the Bank supports. For project decision, therefore, cost-benefit
analysis is not relevant. What is relevant is its cost-effectiveness, analysis of which is given in the second part of this
annex.
The second component will benefit about 150,000 secondary students per year. The benefits potentially include
reduction in repetition rates and increased learning achievement of children. Reduction in repetition rates means that
children can enter the labor force and earn income earlier. It also means savings in school cost. These benefits can be
substantial. There is no available information, however, with which to estimate how much reduction in repetition and
increase in learning achievement the second component of the project will generate. For this reason and the size of the
Expansion of Access component, the mission restricts its quantitative analysis on the first component.
The Govermment of Buenos Aires provided the Bank an estimate of the internall rate of return (IRR) from increased
income due to the additional supply of 9th grade school places. The IRR was estimated to range from about 15 percent to
30 percent, depending on whether the income gain is made to diminish with age or not. The mission considers these
estimates to be unrealistically high. The income gain used was not due to a year of secondary education. It was rather
due to multi-year differences in education because of the way the data was aggregated.
The above-mentioned IRRs contrast with education sector rates of return to an extra year of education by Carola Pessino
(1995). In 1993 the private rate of return to education was about 10 percent in (Greater Buenos Aires. For males aged 25-
54 the rate appears to have risen from about 9.0 percent in 1990 to approximately 11 percent in 1993. More importantly,
for the present purpose, an additional year of secondary education for males aged 25-64 appears to have a rate of return in
the neighborhood of 10 percent from 1990-1994.
The private rate of return to a year of secondary education would probably be higher, if one includes its consumption
value. From the perspective of public finance principle, the above consideration is not a sufficient justification for public
finance of the proposed expansion of ninth grade enrollment. Social efficiency requires that subsidy for education
expansion should, strictly speaking, be based on the value of the externalities generated by an additional year of schooling
-- not on private returns. There are, however, no quantitative estimates of the value of these externalities. Nevertheless,
following conventional wisdom, the project argues that these externalities are substantial in terms of preventing juvenile
delinquency, reducing the cost of governance and increasing social capital.
Equally important, the project argues that by providing universal access to ninth grade, income distribution will be
improved considerably. As net enrollment rate approaches a hundred percent, the additional students entering ninth grade
are likely to come predominantly from the poor. Caution is, however, called for. It is possible that equity could suffer
when poor families are forced to send their children to school and the private return to them (relative to the well-off) is
low.
Apropos this concern, estimates by Pessino (1995) shows that in 1993 the average rate of return to education for blue
collar workers is only 3.0 percent. This low rate of return is probably due to a self-selecting problem. But, this could also
mean that schools attended by the poor need to become more effective in educating their children. This could also mean



that much of the gain from education comes from shifting out of blue collar jobs, which the poor are probably less able to
do with the current inflexibility of the labor market and low quality education. Either way these observations point to the
importance of the quality improvement component of the project and of paying adequate attention to the effectiveness
with which poor children are taught in school.
This brings the analysis to its final point. As mentioned, the civil works component of this project can be justified by the
need to build up physical capacity to ensure that no eligible children obligated to complete the ninth grade is unable to go
to school because of lack of classrooms. But from the Bank's perspective its main value added is in the opportunity that
the project creates for a thoughtful, systematic, and continuous dialogues between the PBA government on policy and
strategic education issues. In this regard, it is important to keep in mind that the key benefit from this project lies in the
proper implementation of the quality improvement component, its ability to stimulate more effective education of the poor
and disadvantaged, and encourage better financing of the education sector.
Summary of Benefits and Costs: The social rate of return is probably about 10 percent; it is more if the consumption
value of education and its external effects are taken into account.
Main Assumptions: (1) Use of Mincerian rate of return estimates. (2) Self-selection is negligible. (3) The calculated rate
of return indicates only income effect. (4) No information for meaning cost-benefit analysis of quality component.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items: The value of the critical items that should enter into the
calculation of social rate of return are difficult to quantify. These refer to the consumption value of education and its
external effects on good citizenship, cost of governance, public health and other contributions to social capital.



Annex 5
PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Third Secondary Education Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summagry
Note: The complete Cost Effectiveness Analysis Document is available upon request
A. To make the project cost-effective, the government analyzed three major choices regarding civil works. The issue was
how to expand the capacity of the education system to accommodate additional enrollment in the 9th grade and ensure
that existing schools, many of which are old and dilapidated, fit the requirements of the new curriculum and quality
improvement efforts. These three choices are:
(i) New schools. The first option considered was to replace with new buildings schools that are so dilapidated, old and
deficient that their rehabilitation would have cost more than 55 percent of the cost of building a new one. This was
judged to be too costly. A new building with nine classrooms, central services and external refurbishment would cost
about $645,000. Hence, no new buildings are included in the project. (Note, however, that 216 new schools were built in
1996/97 and another 76 will be built in 1998 outside the purview of the project.)
(ii) Total renovation. The second option is total renovation of all functionally deficient schools. This implies, aside from
high cost, civil works that would have to be done during the school year and that would be totally intrusive and disruptive
of classes. Hence, only 12 interventions of this type are included in the project.
(iii) Construction of additional classrooms, rehabilitation and enhancement. The approach here is to do relatively
"undisruptive" school improvements such increasing the number of classrooms, adding toilets and rehabilitation of
deficiencies. Unit costs are estimated to be:
Additional classroom (gross/planta baja)         $22,550
Additional classroom (gross/planta alta):        $25,969
Toilet module                                    $30,515
Average rehabilitation                           $49,664
This option was chosen as the best approach because it is significantly cheaper, hless disruptive, and appropriate for
existing schools needing additional classrooms to meet increased community dernand.
B. Having opted for the last approach to meet required school capacity expansion and improvements in physical
infrastructure, the government then examined two choices with respect to constraction technology:
(i) Industrial technology. Use of industrial system was studied but was found to be inappropriate for the following
reasons:
(a) Location and variety of civil works needed. The limited number of civil works located in different types of
locality needing various kinds of improvements makes intensive use of industrial modules impractical and
uneconomical. Existing schools are not uniformly designed. Hence, adcLitional classrooms, toilets and other
rehabilitation efforts need to be tailored to the schools' unique characteriistics.
(b) Management and community involvement. The project decided that construction should be decentralized and
managed by Cooperadoras with the active involvement of the community. Traditional methods, tierefore, would
be more appropriate (see below).
(c) Cost. Due to high transportation cost, the scarcity of local specialized skills needed to install industrial type



construction, and the limited size of the market (absence of economies of scale), it was estimated that use of
industrial technology would cost 25 percent more than traditional methods.
(d) Maintenance. Maintenance would be problematic due to lack of local specialized skills and the non-existence
of local supply of pre-fabricated materials.
(ili) Traditional construction method. As mentioned, traditional construction methods favors decentralization and
community involvement, employment of local labor and materials, and lower unit cost of construction and maintenance.
To ensure that on average the unit cost of construction is not unreasonable, the mission got various cost estimates
per square meter, using traditional construction method and roughly comparable civil work (Table below). Some of the
estimates are based on private experience; others came from government projects such as Plan Social Educativo. These
comparative estimates show that Prodymes l's proposed cost per square meter is quite reasonable. It is lower than the
unit cost of Plan Social Educativo, which is a well regarded Federal program.
Source                Cost per meter ($)
Clarin (office)                        812
Clarin (house)                        722
Housing review                        620
Plan Social Educativo                 600
Proposed project                      567
The issue of using private schools to accommodate additional enrollment was also examined. There is no clear evidence
that it is more cost effective to enroll 9th grade students in private schools than to expand the capacity of public schools
under Prodymes IIl. Cost per student for EGB III, including personnel, infrastructure and other costs, has been estimated
to be about $1,174 for private schools, while the unit cost of expanding enrollment capacity under the project is only
$657. It is possible that children in private schools learn more because of better education. There is no evidence,
however, in Argentina that the difference in learning achievement between private and public school children is as large
as the cost differential.



Annex 6
PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Third Secondary Education Project
Financial Analysis
Note: The complete Financial Analysis Document is available upon request
A Financial analysis was performed to evaluate the recent fiscal performance of the Province of Buenos Aires and the
fiscal impact of the proposed Secondary Education III Project. The main purpose was to establish whether the province
has sufficient resources to finance both future debt service generated by the project and incremental operational costs
generated by the physical investments conducted under the project.
Credit Ratings:
For the Province's last international bond issue in 1996, Moody's gave a rating of B1 and Standard and Poor's gave a
rating of BB-, the same rating prevailing for the federal Government at that time. This relatively positive assessment
probably is due to two factors: (1) the Province's relatively strong fiscal performance in recent years; and (2) a
recognition of the Province's importance within the country, with approximately 39 percent of the country's population
residing within its jurisdiction.
In termns of the Bank's fiscal eligibility criteria for access to loans, the Province passes all three, with respect to their
performance in both 1996 and 1997: (1) a positive current balance; (2) debt service less than 15 percent of current
revenues; and (3) a debt stock less than 60 percent of current revenues. The IDB has also judged the Province
creditworthy for access to direct-to-province loans.
In addition, in the Bank's Provincial Finances Study, the Province of Buenos Aires was ranked fourth among provinces,
based on a variety of economic, political and fiscal indicators. The only provinces ranked higher were two small
provinces, La Pampa and San Luis, which have a long history of fiscal discipline, and the Municipality of Buenos Aires.
Fiscal Impact of the project:
The project would have a relatively minor fiscal impact. When fully disbursed, the $119 million loan would represent
only 1.2 percent of projected current revenues, and the debt service on this loan would represent only 0.1 or 0.2 percent of
current revenues. The classroom expansion and school rehabilitation programmed for the project would lead to
additional operational costs for maintaining the newly expanded schools. These additional annual operational costs are
estimated, by the Province, to be in the range of $26 million to $38 million, representing only 1.1 to 1.6 percent of total
1996 educational expenditures.
Fiscal Impact of Additional Annual Operational Costs
due to civil works under the project
(Pesos, Millions)
low   high     low  high
--Additional personnel      24.3  35.6     1.3% 1.9%        -As a % of 1996 personnel
expenditures                                               expenditures in education
--Additional                2.0  2.4       2.7% 3.3%       --As a % of 1996 good/services
non-personnel expenditures                                 expenditures in education
-As a % of total 1996
Total additional operational costs 26.3  38.0  1.1% 1.6%  leducation expenditures



Annex 7
PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Tlhird Secondary Education Project
Social Assessment
Note: The complete Social Assessment Document is available upon request
Objectives and methodology
1. Thie Social Assessment (SA) is composed of two phases. The first one took place during project preparation and the
second one will be undertaken during project implementation. Activities during preparation included: (i) focus groups
with primary stakeholders, including students, teachers, directors, parents and community-based organizations; (ii)
consultation with the authorities of the provincial education sector and the project Task Manager in order to present the
main ideas of the project during the focus groups and to discuss the participation of civil society during its
implementation.
2. Thirty-six focus groups were held in 9 public schools, 6 in the greater Buenos Aires area and 3 in a middle size and
smalll cities of the Province. The schools that participated belong to the three highest NREE (the Province ranks the
educational-risk from level 1-minimum- to level 4 - maximum-). One focus group for each kind of stakeholder was
formed in each school, with a total participation of: 34 directors and vice-directors (representatives of 33 public schools),
43 teachers, 51 students, 41 parents (some of them were representing community based organizations).
- T he main objectives were to review the impact of educational reform in poor areas and the possible obstacles to the
reform implementation in terms of stakeholders' expectations and needs.
-  The secondary objectives were to review the stakeholders views and possible social impact of three specific areas of
the proposed project: the extracurricular program (AIJE), the improvement of the skills of secondary graduates in
order to facilitate entrance in the labor markets, and the improvement of learning processes in secondary schools.
Results:
1. There is a general consensus among primary stakeholders about the necessity of the transformnation and improvement
of the secondary schools in the Province of Buenos Aires.
2. To fulfill the demand for education and meet the needs of the poorest children, it is important to integrate coverage
actions with quality actions. However, the problem of access is not only an educational problem, since there are
socioeconomic barriers.
3. The commitment to the reform varies greatly among actors. Teachers and directors are deeply committed to the
reform, while parents and students do not have enough information about the reform and show very weak
c,ommitment.
4. The opening of the schools to the extracurricular program (AIJE) properly answers community needs. The school is
perceived as a community space, as an attractive place and as a space for social congregation.
5. Some groups see problems with the utilization of the school building during non-regular hours. In particular, teachers
and directors say that this could create a problem since "a regulatory framework does not exist for the implementation
of extracurricular activities."
6. Teachers' lack of time availability does not facilitate a participatory approach, the generation of innovative projects
and opening of channels of communication and collaboration with the community.
7. Student perceive that: (i) there are very few job opportunities; and (ii) the job that they could get is not related to the
slkills they get at school.
8. The school stakeholders want to be consulted on the reform process. The social assessment was regarded as a
positive development by most participants in the focus groups.



9. There is consensus about the need of gender equity. Gender bias still prevails in technical schools, but it is changing
quickly.
Conclusions for the Project:
The assessment concluded that the proposed project will adequately respond to the social issues raised by the stakeholders
by including the following:
1. An adequate mix of quantitative and qualitative measures to improve secondary education.
2. A participatory approach, particularly in the Institutional Strengthening at the School Level sub-component (ProFEI).
3. Specific administrative measures will increase the time that teachers can dedicate to extracurricular program (AIJE).
4. The implementation of the new Polymodal curriculum aimed at improving the relevance of secondary education.



Annex 8
PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Third Secondary Education Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Table A)
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
Procurement Schedule for Year One of Project Implementation Table C)
Disbursement
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table D)
Disbursement Schedule (Table E)
Annex 8, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method              Total Cost (including
contingencies)
ICB      NCB         Other     N.B.F.
1. Works                                    40.3        91.0                      131.3
(25.8)      (58.2)                    (84.0)
2. Goods
Equipment                        14.2     3.8                                  18.0
(12.8)    (3.4)                               (16.2)
Materials and Supplies                                2.9                      2.9
(1.7)                    (1.7)
3. Technical Assistance                                 17.0                      17.0
(17.0)                  (17.0)
4. Recurrent Cost                                                   0.8           .8
Total                            14.2    44.1        110.9       0.8           170.0
(12.8)    (29.2)     (76.9)                   (119.0)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
ICB    = Intemational Competitive Bidding
N.B.F. = Not Bank-fnanced
NCB   = National Competitive Bidding
Other  = Includes Local Shopping



Annex 8, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$1,000 equivalent)
Category          Contract Value (Thresholds)  Proctarrement Method    Contracts Subject to
Prior Reviews By Bank
Works                  350 to 5,000                 NCB                First two contracts
All contracts > 500
<350                 Three quotations       First two contracts
Goods                     >350                      ICB                     All
100 to 350                 NCB                First two contracts
<100                    Shopping            First two contracts
Consulting Services
Firms                                              QCBS                    >100
QCBS and CQ           <100: TORs only
Individuals                                        Individuals                >50
Individuals          <50: TORs only
Exemption from prior review does not apply to consultant contracts below the threslholds in cases of: single source selection of firms,
assignments of critical nature, and amendments to contracts raising the original value above the threshold
ICB = International Competitive Bidding; NCB = National Competitive Bidding; QCBS = Quality-and-Cost Based Selection;
CQ = Consultant Qualification (only acceptable for contracts costing US$ 100,000 or less)
Procurement of works, goods and services financed in whole or in part under the loan, will be carried out in accordance
with Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits (January 1995 version, revised on January, August
1996 and September 1997). The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for the Procurement of Goods (Spanish version)
will be applied in International Competitive Bidding; and model bidding documents previously agreed with the Bank will
be used for contracting goods and civil works under National Competitive Biidding.
In contracting consulting services, the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (version January 1997, revised September 1997) will be applied. A Spanish translation of the Bank's Standard
Request for Proposals documents will be used when soliciting proposals from shortlisted firms.
Most procurement would be carried out at central level by the UEP. The UEP will include 3 full-time procurement
officers and 6 administrative staff whose main responsibility will be to: (a) prepare and submit to the Bank all
procurement documents which require Bank's prior review; (b) carry out any procurement at central level; (c) coordinate
and monitor procurement carried out by each executing unit; and (d) prepare and submit to the Bank at the beginning of
each calendar year a detailed procurement schedule. The appointment of the procurement officer will be done in
consultation with the Bank. At project launch, the Bank will deliver a procurement workshop to present and explain
procurement guidelines and commence preparing specific bidding documents.
Civil works. The project would finance civil works to rehabilitate schools and construct classrooms and bathrooms in
EGB schools for a total amount of US$131.2 million equivalent. No new buildings/schools are expected to be
constructed under the project. Contracts estimated to cost US$350,000 equivalent or above will be awarded following
National Competitive Bidding procedures. It is estimated that approximately 20% of total civil works contracts -
representing about US$40.3 million or 30% of total allocation for civil works- will fall in this category. Civil works
estimated to cost less than US$350,000 equivalent will be awarded on the basis of lump-sum fixed price contracts, with at
least three quotations from pre-selected qualified contractors. The list of preselected qualified contractors will be
prepared and updated periodically by the School Cooperadoras; however the comparison of quotations and final contract
For contracts between US$100,000 and US$200,000 the Borrower has to submit to the Bank only the results of the technical
evaluation (no the evaluation report).



award will be carried out by the UEP. A team of inspectors financed by the project will assist the Cooperadoras and
provide technical assistance during the rehabilitation and construction works. It is estimated that approximately 80% of
civil works contracts -representing about US$91.0 million equivalent or 70% of total allocation for civil works- will fall
under this category.
Goods. The project would finance equipment, materials and supplies for a total amount estimated at US$21.0 million
equivalent. Whenever possible, contracts will be bulked into large packages estimated to cost US$350,000 equivalent or
more and will be tendered following International Competitive Bidding procedures; it is estimated that about US$14.2
million equivalent of the total allocation for goods will fall under this category. For bidding packages estimated to cost
less than US$350,000 equivalent National Competitive Bidding will apply; about US$3.8 million would be contracted
following this procedure. In case of goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent, National or International
Shopping may be applied, for up to US$2.9 million equivalent.
Technical Assistance. The project would finance consulting services including training, supervision of works, specialists
services (such as legal and accounting support,) and related support for a total estimated at US$17.0 million equivalent.
In cont-acting consulting firms, the selection will be on the basis of Cost and Quality (QCBS). When contracting
individual consultants, the criteria for selection will be based on qualifications.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions. The Bank's prior review will include: (i) all bidding documents,
evaluation reports and contracts for ICB; (ii) all NCB tenders for civil works contracts estimated to cost US$500,000 or
above; (iii) the first two NCB tenders for goods: (iv) the first two NCB tenders for civil works estimated to cost less than
US$500,000; (v) all Request for Proposals packages (letter of invitation, terms of reference, draft contract) for contracting
consulting firms for contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or above -in case of contracts estimated to cost
US$200,000 or above, the Bank should review the technical evaluation before financial envelopes are opened-; and (vi)
all selection processes for contracting of individual consultants for the amount of US$50,000 or above per year.
Additionally, the Bank shall review ex-ante all extensions of contracts for consulting firms or individual consultants
raising the total contract value above US$ 100,000 or US$50,000 equivalent, respectively.
For contracts not subject to the Bank's prior review (NCB -except for the first two-, Shopping, or consulting contracts
with firms or individuals below US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, respectively) model documents previously
agreed with the Bank shall be used. These contracts will be subject to sampling post-review by Bank staffduring
supervision missions.
At pre-appraisal, the Borrower presented a procurement plan for the first year of project implementation acceptable to the
Bank (Annex 6, Table C). During annual review meetings the Bank would review the procurement schedule for the
following year, including international or national tenders, as well as the number and estimated costs of the sub-projects
to be financed under the loan.



Annex 8, Table C. Procurement Schedule for Year One of Project Implementation
Period: FY98
US$ 1,000 equivalent
1            2              3              4              5              6            7           8
Date of
Estimated                    General       Receipt of   Date of Specific               Evalust.    Signed
Value of    Procurement  Procurement  Bidding Does.  FProcurement   Date of Bid    Report in    Contract
Contracts         Contract       Method         Notice        in IBRD         Notice        Opening       IBRD       in IBRD
A.Works PQn/98 ()         <300            PQ           4/1/98         N/A            N/A            N/A          N/A          N/A
R.Technical Assistance
B. I Consultant            42            B.G           4/1/98        4115198         N/A            N/A          N/A        5/15/98
Pedagogical Monitoring
B.2 UCP Staff)             100           B.G           4/1/9S        4/15/98         N/A            N/A          N/A        5/15/98
B.3 (T.As )                133           B.G           4/1/98        4/15/98         N/A            N/A          N/A        5/15/98
B.4 (Equip. Cons.)         36            B.G           4/1/98        4/15/98         N/A            N/A          N/A        5/15/98
B.5 (AccL Cons.)           36            B.G           4/1/98        4/15/98         N/A            N/A          N/A        5/15/98
B.6 (2 Monitoring          72            B.G           4/1/98        4/15/98         N/A            N/A          N/A        5/15/98
Consultant )                                      I                                                         I_I
C. Equipment
C.l. LPI 1/98             6,300          ICB           4/1/98        5/1/98          7/1/98        8/16/98      9/16/98     10116/98
(Technical Equipment)
C.2. LPI 2/98             3,300          ICB           4/1/98        5/1/98          7/1/98        819/98       9/1898      10/19/98
( School funitue)
C.3. WL ( Vehicles)        350           ICB           4/l/98        5/1/98          7/1/98        82/198       9/25/98     10/20/98
C.4. PQn/98 )               78           PQ            4/1/98         N/A            N/A            N/A          N/A         N/A
Computers Equipment)
N/A=  Not    Applicable    B.G.: Bank's       Cons.
Guidelines
Annex 8, Table D: Aliocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditre Category                  Anount In US$mWon                      Financing Percentage
1. Civil Worics                                       80                                   63%
2. Goods
Equipment                                   16.0                     100% foreign and 70% local
expenditures
Materials and Supplies                    1.7                                   60%
3. Technical Assistance                              15.5                                  100%
5. Unallocated                                        5.8
Total                                                 119



Annex 8, Table E: Disbursement Schedule3
(US$million equivalent)
Quarter ending            Appraisal estimate               Cumulative
FY98
First Semester
Second Semester                  51.9                         51.9
FY99
First Semester                  51.9                         103.8
Second Semester                  5.3                          109.1
FY00
First Semester                  5.3                          114.4
Second Semester                  2.1                          116.5
FYO1
First Semester                  2.5                          119.0
The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of three years up to June 30, 2001 (Annex 6, Tables D and E). The
project completion date (i.e. the final date for presentation of requests for approval or authorization to disburse in respect
of sub-projects would be June 30, 20001). The project closing date would be December 31, 2001, six months after the
completion date.
Retroactive Financing. The Bank would finance contracts retroactive for eligible expenditures incurred up to 12 months
prior to the expected date of loan signing, up to 10% of the amount of the loan, unless an exception is granted. These
funds would be used to finance eligible sub-projects approved in line with the eligibility and appraisal criteria acceptable
to Bank.
Documentation. The UEP would present full support documentation for all withdrawal applications with a contract value
of US$300,000 for civil works, US$250,000 for goods, US$50,000 for service of consulting firms, and US$20,000
equivalent for individual consultant contracts. The UEP would submit withdrawal applications of smaller contract values
having a statement of expenditures (SOEs), and would maintain the respective supporting documents for Bank review.
Special Account. The Province of Buenos Aires would open a Special Account at Banco de la Naci6n with an initial
deposit of US$13 million equivalent. This would correspond to about four months of expenditures required under the
project. The Project Coordination Unit would request the Bank to replenish the special account on the basis of standard
disbursement procedures. Withdrawals from the special account would be supported by sufficiently detailed
documentation or SOE in accordance with Bank disbursement procedures.
Financial management, accounting and auditing. The Project Coordinating Unit would be audited annually by auditors
acceptable to the Bank. No later than six months after the end of its fiscal year, the project Coordination Unit would
submit to the Bank copies of audit reports containing the auditor's opinion on (a) project accounts, including statement of
expendiitures and the Special Account; (b) whether procurement was carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines; and
(c) the adequacy of internal controls to minimize the possibility of misuse of funds or other improprieties.
3Loan assumed to be effective by July, 1998.



Annex 9
PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Third Secondary Education Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
US$200              US$119
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
| (At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         9
First Bank mission (identification)           08/05/1997           08/05/1997
Pre-Appraisal mission departure                12/08/1997          12/08/1997
Appraisal Date                                03/02/1998           02/10/1998
Planned Negotiations Date                     03/04/1998           03/13/1998
Board Presentation Date                       05/1.2/1998          04/09/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 07/01/1998
Prepared by: Directorate General of Culture and Education/UEP
Preparation assistance: French Consultant Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                      Specialty and/or Project Responsibility
Sandra Cesilini                          Local Consultant and NGO Specialist in charge
of the Social Assessment
Sandra Guti6rrez                         Project Assistant
William Experton                         Task Manager
Jacques Mazeran                          Technical Education Specialist in charge of
evaluating the Restructuring Technical Schools
sub-component
Jos6 Moscoso                             Procurement Specialist
Vicente Paqueo                           Economist in charge of Cost-Benefit and
Cost-Efficiency Analyses
Luis Pisani                              Principal Operations Officer in charge of
evaluating the Quality and Relevance
component
David Rosenblatt                         Economist. in charge of the Financial Analysis
Elena Rodriguez                          Task Assistant
Luis Secco                               Arquitect iin charge of evaluating the
Expansion of Access component
Rudolf Van Puymbroeck                    Project Lawyer
Aracelly Woodall                         Project Costing



Annex 10
PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Third Secondary Education Project
Documents in the Project File*
*Including electronic files
A. Project Implementation Documents:
1. Project Implementation Plan for the Expansion of Access Component
2. Implementation time table and budget for Improvements in Quality and Relevance of Education
Component
B. Bank Staff Assessments:
1. Economic Analysis: Cost-Benefit and Cost-Effectiveness
2. Financial Analysis
3. Social Assessment
C. Projiect history documents:
1. Aide Memoires for Identification, Preparation and Pre-Appraisal missions
2. Back-to-Office Reports for Identification, Preparation and Pre-Appraisal missions
3. Project Concept Document
4. Comments on Project Concept Document
5. Minutes of the PCD review meeting
6. Detailed Cost Tables
D. Pro ject background documents presented by the Directorate General of Culture and Education (DGCyE):
1. Project Preparation Documents in each sub-component
2. "El Polimodal: Programa de Transformaci6n" (The Polymodal transformation progran)
3. "Informaci6n Basica Preliminar" (Basic educational and socio-economic for the Province of Buenos
Aires)
4. Situation of Secondary Schools Report (PTENM first phase)
5. Provincial Education Sector Administrative Reformn program
6. Document on Buenos Aires School Infrastructure
E. Relevant Legal Documents:
1. Federal Education Law
2. Provincial Education Law
3. Federal Education Pact
4. Law for the creation of the COPRET
F. Other projects' documents relevant to the proposed project:
1. Secondary Education I project Implementation Plan for the Province of Buenos Aires
2. Secondary Education II Project Implementation Plan



Annex 11
PROVINCE of BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
Third Secondary Education Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 48
AR-PA-5945   L26410       1986  GOVERNMENT                    WATER SUPPLY                 60.00       0.00              20.03       1.64
AR-PA-5968   L28540        1987   SEGBA                       SEGBA V                     276.00       0.00               0.00       68.45
AR-PA-5977   L32810       1991  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC            WTR SUPPLY II               100.00       0.00               0.00       81.59
AR-PA-6005   L32800        1991   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA       PROVINCE DEV PROJ           200.00       0.00                0.00      80.96
AR-PA-6009   L32970        1991   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA   AG SERVCES&INST DEV            33.50       0.00                0.00      6.17
AR-PA-6034   L34600        1992   GOVERNMENT                  TAX ADMIN II                 20.00       0.00                0.00      2.83
AR-PA-6003   L36110        1993   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA   RD MAINT & REHAB SCT          340.00       0.00                0.00     187.25
AR-PA-6036   L35200        1993  GOVERNMENT                   YACYRETA II                 300.00       0.00                0.00      4.02
AR-PA-6051   L35210        1993  ARGENTINA                    FLOOD REHABILITATION        170.00       0.00               0.00       16.24
AR-PA-6062   L37100       1994   MIN OF ECONOMY               CAPITAL MKT TA                8.50       0.00               0.00       5.9B
AR-PA-5986   L37090        1994   REP OF ARGENTINA    A       CAPITAL MKT DEVT            500.00       0.00                0.00     483.88
AR-PA-6025   L36430        1994   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA   MTNAL CHILD HLTH & N          100.00       0.00               0.00       66.68
AR-PA-40826  L38780        1995  ARG REPUBLIC                 PROV.BANK PRIV.             500.00       0.00               0.00      166.00
AR-PA-5992   L37940        1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA   INA   SECONDARY ED I                190.00       0.00               0.00      180.43
AR-PA-6018   L38770        1995  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC           PROV DEVT II                225.00       0.00               0.00      225.00
AR-PA-6035   L38360       1995   REP OF ARGENTINA             PROV.REFORM                 300.00       0.00               0.00      100.37
AR-PA-6060   L38600       1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA            MUNIC DEVT II               210.00       0.00               0.00      202.81
AR-PA-34091  L39210       1996   REP OF ARGENTINA             HIGHER ED REFORM            165.00       0.00               0.00      158.54
AR-PA-35495  L39570       1996   SEC.OF SOC.DEVIT (OFFICE  SOCIAL PROTECTION              152.00       0.00               0.00       55.13
AR-PA-38883  L39600       1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA        ENT.EXPORT DV.               38.50       0.00               0.00       35.99
AM-PA-40904  L39260       1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA        BANK REFORM                 500.00       0.00               0.00      333.00
AR-PA-40909  L40020       1996   REP. OF ARGENTINA            H. INSURANCE REFORM         250.00       0.00               0.00      100.00
AR-PA-45687  L40040       1996   REP. OF ARGRNTINA            H.INSURANCE TA               25.00       0.00               0.00       23.17
AR-PA-6030   L39310       1996   REPUB OF ARGENTINA           PROVCL HLTH SCTR DEV        101.40       0.00               0.00       98.08
AR-PA-6040   L39480       1996   GOVERNMENT                   FORESTRY/DV                  16.00       0.00               0.00       15.70
AR-PA-6055   L39270       1996   GOVT. OF ARGENTINA           MINING SCTR DEVT             30.00       0.00               0.00       22.29
AR-PA-37049  L39580       1996   GOVT OF ARGENTINA            PUB.INV.STRENGTHG            16.00       0.00               0.00       16.00
AR-PA-40909  L40030       1996   REP. OF ARGENTINA            H. INSURANCE REFORM         100.00       0.00               0.00      100.00
AR-PA-6057   L39710       1996   GOV'T OF ARGENTINA           SECNDARY ED 2               115.50       0.00               0.00      115.50
AR-PA-40808  L40850       1997   GOA                          N.FOREST/PROTC               19.50       0.00               0.00       19.50
AR-PA-5980   L40930        1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA           PROV ROADS                  300.00       0.00                0.00     300.00
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of
Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U -
unsatisfactory, HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating
Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
c. Following the FY94 ARPP, "Implementation Progress" will be reported here.



STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
Committed-                             Dibum,.
IFC
31  Company                       Loan    Equity    Quasl   Partic   Loan  4EqP              Qi        a
1960       Aeindar                           0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
1977       Alpargatas                        0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1978        Minetti                          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
1981       MineKti                            .67       0.00      0.00      0.00     .67      0.00     0.00      0.00
1984       Alpargatas                        0.00       1.05      0.00      0.00    0.00      1.05     0.00      0.00
1985        ROPASA                           0.00       .05       0.00      0.00    0.00       .05     0.00      0.00
1986       Alpargatas                        0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1986       Minetti                            .23       0.00      0.00      1.17     .23      0.00     0.00      1.17
1987        BGN-Bolland                      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1987        BGN-CENCOSUD                      .07       0.00      0.00      0.00     .07      0.00     0.00      0.00
1987        BGN-CILSA                         .01       0.00      0.00      0.00     .01      0.00     0.00      0.00
1987        BGN-COLORTEX                      .07       0.00      0.00      0.00     .07      0.00     0.00      0.00
1987        BGN-Flichman                      .02       0.00      0.00      0.00     .02      0.00     0.00      0.00
1987        BGN-Longvie                       .03       0.00      0.00      0.00     .03      0.00     0.00      0.00
1987        BGN-Moldeada                      .07       0.00      0.00      0.00     .07      0.00     0.00      0.00
1987        BGN-Noroeste                      .03       0.00      0.00      0.00     .03      0.00     0.00      0.00
1987        BGN-Sebastian                     .07       0.00      0.00      0.00     .07      0.00     0.00      0.00
1987        BGN-Tevycom                       .02       0.00      0.00      0.00     .02      0.00     0.00      0.00
1987        BGN-TBR                           .21       0.00      0.00      0.00     .21      0.00     0.00      0.00
1987        BGN-Valley                        .03       0.00      0.00      0.00     .03      0.00     0.00      0.00
1987        BGN-Vandenfll                     .03       0.00      0.00      0.00     .03      0.00     0.00      0.00
1987        BRLP                             3.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     3.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
1987        Minetti                           .47       0.00      0.00      2.33     .47      0.00     0.00      2.33
1987        Terminal 6                       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
1988        Alpargatas                       1.70       0.00      1.37      0.00     1.70     0.00     1.37      0.00
1988        Bunge y Born                     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1989       Astra CAPSA                       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1989        Banco Frances                    4.31       0.00      0.00      1.14    4.31      0.00     0.00      1.14
1989        BGN-Algodonera                    .32       0.00      0.00      0.00     .32      0.00     0.00      0.00
1989        BGN-Bolland                       .27       0.00      0.00      0.00     .27      0.00     0.00      0.00
1989        BGN-Ferrum                       1.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     1.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
1989        BGN-Flichman                      .20       0.00      0.00      0.00     .20      0.00     0.00      0.00
1989        BGN-FRIGOTOBA                     .15       0.00      0.00      0.00     .15      0.00     0.00      0.00
1989        BGN-Genaro                        .82       0.00      0.00      0.00     .82      0.00     0.00      0.00
1989        BGN-lnterpack                     .30       0.00      0.00      0.00     .30      0.00     0.00      0.00
1989        BGN-Parafina                      .75       0.00      0.        0.00     .75      0.00     0.00      0.00
1989        BGN-Willmor                       .82       0.00      0.00      0.00     .82      0.00     0.00      0.00
1989        ROB-COMESI                        .38       0.00      0.00      0.00     .38      0.00     0.00      0.00
1989        ROB-Fracchia                      .21       0.00      0.00      0.00     .21      0.00     0.00      0.00
1989        ROB-INTA                          .38       0.00      0.00      0.00     .38      0.00     0.00      0.00
1989        Terminal 6                       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1990        CIP                              0.00       .08       0.00      0.00     0.00      .08     0.00      0.00
1990        Petroken                         8.33       0.00      5.00      4.58     8.33     0.00     5.00      4.58
1990       Terminal 6                        0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
1991       Astra CAPSA                      11.57       0.00      0.00     20.42    11.57     0.00     0.00     20.42
1991        BCA                              2.20       0.00      0.00      2.80     2.20     0.00     0.00      2.80
1991        Minetti                           .58       0.00      0.00      0.00     .58      0.00     0.00      0.00



Aprva  ompany-                     Loan    Equity    Qusii   Pirt c   Loan:  E        . ui uai i $ tI'
1991       ROB-Alimenticia                  .28       0.00     0.00      0.00     .28      0.00    0.00      0.00
1991       ROB-Emprigas                     .38       0.00     0.00      0.00     .38      0.00    0.00      0.00
1991       ROB-Guilford                     .20       0.00     0.00      0.00     .20      0.00    0.00      0.00
1991       ROB-Interpack                    .33       0.00     0.00      0.00     .33      0.00    0.00      0.00
1991       ROB-Jugos                        .06       0.00     0.00      0.00     .06      0.00    0.00      0.00
1991       ROB-Longvie                      .45       0.00     0.00      0.00     .45      0.00    0.00      0.00
1991       ROB-Mendoza                      .38       0.00     0.00      0.00     .38      0.00    0.00      0.00
1991       ROB-Surfactan                    .04       0.00     0.00      0.00     .04      0.00    0.00      0.00
1992       Astra CAPSA                     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00
1992       Bridas                         24.36       0.00    15.00     43.43    24.36     0.00    15.00    43.43
1992       BRLP                            10.78      0.00     0.00      2.63    3.24      0.00    0.00      2.63
1992       FEPSA                           10.80      0.00     0.00     12.67    8.60      0.00    0.00     10.27
1992       Malteria Pampa                  7.19       0.00     0.00     13.27    7.19      0.00    0.00     13.27
1992       Oleaginosa Oeste                7.64       0.00     5.00     11.83    7.64      0.00    5.00     11.83
1992       Rioplatense                     6.33       1.00     0.00      2.00    6.33      1.00    0.00      2.00
1992       San Jorge                       10.00     27.00     0.00     23.33    10.00     0.00    0.00     23.33
1993       Argentina Equity                0.00       4.00     0.00      0.00    0.00      4.00    0.00      0.00
1993       APSA                            0.00      19.47     0.00      0.00    0.00     19.47    0.00      0.00
1993       Bunge y Bom                     4.25       0.00     0.00     36.09    4.25      0.00    0.00     36.09
1993       Cadipsa                         9.29       0.00     5.00     11.70    9.29      0.00    5.00     11.70
1993       Malteba Pampa                   0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00
1993       Minenti                         1.62       0.00     0.00      0.00    1.62      0.00    0.00      0.00
1993       Molinos                         0.00       4.31     0.00      0.00    0.00     4.31     0.00      0.00
1993       Nuevo Central                   7.50       3.00     0.00     12.50    7.50      3.00    0.00     12.50
1993       Yacylec                         9.35       5.04     0.00     36.13    9.35      5.04    0.00     36.13
1994       Aceitera                        15.00     10.00     0.00     15.00    15.00    10.00    0.00      0.00
1994       Aguas                          36.53       7.00     0.00    107.60    36.53     7.00    0.00    107.60
1994       Alpargatas                      11.54      5.00     5.00     20.71    11.54     5.00    5.00     20.71
1994       BGN                             12.00      0.00     3.00      0.00    12.00     0.00    3.00      0.00
1994       Cia. Combustible               19.46      15.00     0.00     32.80    19.46    15.00    0.00     32.80
1994       EDENOR                         21.13       0.00    15.00     99.25    21.13     0.00    15.00    99.25
1994       La Maxima                       0.00      10.19     0.00      0.00    0.00     10.19    0.00      0.00
1994       LBAR                            0.00       1.17     0.00      0.00    0.00      .64     0.00      0.00
1994       LBAV                            0.00       3.62     0.00      0.00    0.00      3.62    0.00      0.00
1994       Molinos                         0.00       1.24     0.00      0.00    0.00      1.24    0.00      0.00
1994       MASISA                          9.63       0.00     0.00      0.00    9.63      0.00    0.00      0.00
1994       Petroken                        15.91      0.00     0.00      2.50    15.91     0.00    0.00      2.50
1994       Quilmes                        12.64       0.00     0.00     12.50    12.64     0.00    0.00     12.50
1995       Acindar                         15.00      0.00    10.00     20.00    15.00     0.00    10.00     8.57
1995       Aguas                          40.00       0.00     0.00    173.00    40.00     0.00    0.00    121.80
1995       Banco Roberts                   0.00       0.00    20.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    20.00     0.00
1995       Bridas                         20.00      10.00     0.00     40.00    20.00    10.00    0.00     40.00
1995       CEPA                            13.00      0.00     0.00      4.20    13.00     0.00    0.00      4.20
1995       EDENOR                           0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00
1995       Kleppe/Caldero                  6.00       0.00     0.00      0.00    6.00      0.00    0.00      0.00
1995       La Maxima                        0.00      0.00     4.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    3.96      0.00
1995       Mastellone                      38.57      0.00     0.00     35.00    38.57     0.00    0.00      0.00
1995       Nahuelsat                       30.00      5.00     0.00      0.00    30.00     5.00    0.00      0.00
1995       SanCor                         20.00       0.00    20.00     30.00    20.00     0.00    20.00    30.00



. - - . - - ~~~~~~~~~Committed                                     :       .----Disbursei . -s-wi 9' ...............,n-N
FY                                                          IFC-
Aprroval   company                             Loan      Equity    Qualsi   Partic  Loan         Eqt      Q        Pa
1995        Socma                             24.99       0.00       0.00      0.00    24.99      0.00      0.00      0.00
1995        SIDECO                             0.00      15.0        0.00      0.00     0.00      15.00     0.00      0.00
1995        Terminales Port.                  10.00       2.00       0.00      0.00     7.00       1.40     0.00      0.00
1995        Tower Fund                         0.00       18.71      0.00      0.00     0.00       5.54     0.00      0.00
1995        Tower Fund Mgr                     0.00         .13      0.00      0.00     0.00        .03     0.00      0.00
1996        Aguas                              0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00
1996        Alpargatas                        15.00        0.00      0.00     81.00    10.00       0.00     0.00     81.00
1996        APSA                               0.00        0.00      2.50      0.00     0.00       0.00     2.50      0.00
1996        Banco Frances                     40.00        0.00      0.00      0.00      2.31      0.00     0.00      0.00
1996        Banco Galicia                     30.00        0.00      0.00    200.00    30.00       0.00     0.00    200.00
1996        Brahma -ARG                       18.50        0.00      0.00     33.00    18.50       0.00     0.00     33.00
1996        CAPSA                             12.00       0.00       5.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00
1996        Grunbaum                           8.00       0.00       2.00      0.00     8.00       0.00     2.00      0.00
1996        Malteria Pampa                     6.00        0.00      1.00      0.00     6.00       0.00     1.00      0.00
1996        Minetti                           10.00       0.00       0.00     30.00     4.10       0.00     0.00     12.30
1996        MBA                                0.00         .16      0.00      0.00     0.00        .16     0.00      0.00
1996        Neuquen Basin                      0.00       26.40      0.00      0.00     0.00      15.11     0.00      0.00
1996        Refisan                           20.00       0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00
1996        Terminal 6                        10.50       0.00       0.00      6.50    10.50       0.00     0.00      6.00
1996        Transconor                        25.00       0.00      20.00    210.00    25.00       0.00    20.00    210.00
1996        Zanon                             14.00        0.00      6.00      0.00    12.00       0.00     6.00      0.00
1997        Acindar                            0.00       0.00      15.00      0.00     0.00       0.00    15.00      0.00
Pending Commitments .
1997        'ACINDAR TF LOAN                  25.00        0.00      0.00     50.00
1996        'AGUAS III - INC                  15.00        0.00      0.00     75.00
1996        ' BANSUD CL                       25.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
1996        * DIADEMA FIELD                    0.00        0.00      0.00     40.00
1994        'EDENOR INCREASE                   0.00        0.00      0.00      8.00
1996        * EDESUR II BLINC                  0.00        0.00      0.00    108.00
1996        * EDESUR REHAB                    40.00        0.00      0.00     80.00
1993        ' FEPSA (II)                       0.00        0.00      0.00      4.00
1997        * GUIPEBA                         15.00        0.00      5.00     20.00
1997        * MILKAUT                         20.00        0.00      0.00      5.00
1996        ' MINETTI EM                       0.00        0.00     10.00      0.00
1995        ' R-E-C TOLL HWAY                 20.00        0.00      0.00     61.00
1997        'TGN II BLINC                      0.00        0.00      0.00     10.00
1996        ^ TRANSCONOR II                    5.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
1997        * VICENTIN                        25.00        0.00      0.00     10.00
1996        * WESTERN ACCESS                  30.00        0.00      5.00    130.00



Argentina at a glance
Ltin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Americ   middle-
rgentna  & Carib.  Incom      DOelopmentdiamond-
Populaon mid-1996 (mEfn.)                           35.1       485     479
GNP per capita 1998 (US$)                          8.410     3,710    4,540               Lle expec
GNP 1996 (lslons USS)                              295.0     1,799    2,173
Averag, annual growth, 199048
Populion (%)                                         1.3       1.7      1.5     GNP         G/ \Grss
Labor fore (U)                                       2.0       2.3      1.8     per                            primary
Most recnt eImat lasyear avaible sine 1989)                                     capita       "'   ,          enmlment
Povery: headwunt hdex (X of popuWton)                 26
Urban popuation (U of toapopuafIon)                   8S        74      73
ULi expetancy at birth &ars)                          73        69      69
Infant mortlity (per 1,000 ioe bsJlt)                 22        37      35              Acoess to safe water
Child malnutrition (U of clin under 5)
Accon to safe water (% of popAton)                    64        80       86
IlltKacy (U of populanton gs5 I)                      4         13      13
Gss prlmaiyenrollmentm(wU  fscohoolLpoppxailon)      111       110      107
Male                                                                                    Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOlIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985      1995    1996
Economic ratbls
GDP (bions USS)                            52.4    88.4      280.8   300.5
Gross domestic Investnent/GDP              294      17.6      18.3    18.5              Opennesseconomy
Exports of goods and swvs/GDP               5.8    11.7        8.5      9.0
Gross domestic savhngaGDP                  29.3    23.1       18.4    18.1
Gross naional savngs/GDP                   28.4    16.6       17.5    17.2
Current account balance/GDP                 -2.5    -1.1      -0.9    -1.3
Interest payments/GDP                       0.9      5.0       2.1      2.3     Savings       '             Investment
Total debt/GDP                             14.7    57.6       32.0    33.2                     \/
Total debt servIeexports                   44.7    60.1       47.4    46.7
Present value of debtGDP                                      29.5
Prent value of debt/exports                                  332.1
Indebtedness
1975S  1986-96      1996      1996  1997-O6
(avera  aua goh) tArhena
GDP                                0.6      2.9    -4.6        44       5.0
GNP per capita                    -1.8      2.0    -6.4        2.8      3.9               Up    grup
Exports of goods and services      5.1      7.6    26.4        7.4      8.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(U of GDP)                                 1976    1986       1996    1996      Growth rates of outputand nvestmont%)
Agriculture                                 6.6      7.6       74       7.1     4
Industry                                   50.1    39.3       36.0    36.2      30 -
Manufacturing                             38.2    29.7                        20.  .
10.
Services                                   43.3    53.1       56.6    56.7
Private consumption                        58.1               72.3    73.3    -20
General govemment consumptin               12.6                9.4      8.5
Imports of goods and servIes                6.0      6.3       8.5      9.3                    GDI   -0-GDP
197C-5  1986-9       1996    1996
(average annual growth)                                                         Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                1i6       1.5       2.3      0.3     so
Indust"y                                    -1.5     2.7      -8.5      4.9     N 
Manufacturing                             -1i6     0.9
Serves                                      2.2      3.3      -3.0      4.6     40
Private consumption                                    ,      -8.6      5.7    20
General govemment consumptbon                                 -6.6    -54        0
Gross domestc investment                   -3.5      5.7     -11.9      5.4    -20                 a
Impots of goods and servIes                 2.4    14.5      -14.0    10.0                              0
Gross natonal product                      -0.3      3.4      -5.1      4.0                   Ext    0mpor
Note: 1996 data are prelminaWy estmas. Figures in alics are for years other than those specfied.
* The diamonds show four key indicator In the country (n bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incompleb.



Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1995     1996        __l_i.
Domestic prices                                                                     In1bUo (%)
(% change)                                                                         3,000
Consumer prices                             182.6    672.3        3.4      0.1      .0.
Implicit GDP deflator                       198.2    618.2        4.5      2.5
Government finance                                                                 .,0
(% of GDP)                                                                            o
Current revenue                                 ..       ..      16.7      16.5              91   52   93   94   ss   a.
Current budget balance                          ..       ..      -0.2     -1.1                     GDPd          CPI
Overall surplusideficit                         ,,       ..      -1.1     -2.4
TRADE
(millionsUSS)                                1975    1986        1996     1996      Export and Import leves (mill. US$J
Total exports (fob)                         2,961    8,396    20,964   23,774       zs,ooo
Food                                          ..       ..    1,969    2,203                                          _
Meat                                                          1,582    1955
Manufactures                                   .       ..    10,836   12,004      15.000
Total imports (ci)                          3,947    3,814    20,120   23,733       1s'00l
Food
Fuel and energy                                .       ..       809      846       ss
Capital goods..                                         .     4,746    5,647       s
Exportpriceindex(1987=100)                     .,        ..       118      124             90  91  r2  93  94  86  96
lmport price index (1987=100)                   ..       ..       115      120                   o Exports    mimporta
Termns of trade (1987=100)                      ..       ..       102      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Current account balance to GDP ratio ()
Exports of goods and services               3.498   10,039    23,889   27,078       2
Imports of goods and services               4,324    5,285    23,826   27,900
Resource balance                             -826    4,754         63     -824          n
Net income                                   -466   -5,706    -2,941   -3,523       o
Netcurrenttransfers                             6        0        432      334          90 s      92   93   94   9    98
Current account balance,                                                           I2
before official capital transfers         -1,286     -952    -2,446   -4,013      .2
Financing items (net)                         208    Z200       2515       231
Changes in net reserves                     1,078   -1,248        -69    3,782    -4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)           848    4,703    15,992   19,774
Conversion rate (locaWUS$)                3.7E-10  6.OE-0        1.0       1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996                                               I
(millions USS)                                                                    I Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        7,723   50,946    89,719   99,701
IBRD                                        341      700      4.913    5,372                 G       A
IDA                                           0        0         0         0               10170   4913    C
6131
Total debt service                           1,603    6,209     9,732   14,529                                     0
IBRD                                         43      114       565       608    |          /        |,|
IDA                                           0        0         0         0                                      E
11709
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               0        6        36
Official creditors                           59      217      1,411       ..                                 /
Private creditors                          -111    2,350      5,674       ..
Foreign direct investment                     0      919      1,319                        F F
Portfolio equity                              0        0       211         ..            52323
Wodd Bank program
Commitments                                   o        0      2,272      946      A - IBRD                     B - ilateral
Disbursements                                19      144       941    1,077       B-IDA    D- Othermultilateral  F- Private
Principal repayments                         17       68       259       282      C-IMF                       G - Short-trm|
Net flows                                     1       75       682       795
Interest payments                            26       46       306       326
Net transfers                               -25       30       376       469
Development Economics                                                                                                8128197



2RD 29448
0 20                                             r         60"                                                      5'> 
4'000    .   ,>  BOLIVIA             1                                            BOLIVIA                                            20-
%;PARAGUAYN
:S-           n v  oi      j             rm osa,o  t                                                 ^4
T~TUCU /~u,n~                                 '   I\sd
SANTIAGO            Resistencia     Posr das  *    ,
070  0 0 0 0 0  >      9+> \   ~8    SabWra  del fsterr    "   ,      orrientzs-t ,                                      ;   0;XX  0000     f 
l0>  0 gi *               La RiOlsJA\r-                   'SAN  TA)-    X    :00fE  
-3e00;0000U  r  JUAN                            C6rdFobavJ   ?    0i;00tt                                                                            00q
> 00 0    f          gSanu;    CORDO A                 Fe     ENT,°E                           '      P      '0     t7;   $0   f   f0;V  
kX                 Sanra Rosas  7        A A     RIOS
SAAN
Q) r jUAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L Plato6a!Snt
BENOSE
SontaRs@A    REO S
SAN
0 0 0: X(                            PAM  PA                       tjMar del PIataO (0:0L::;:i0 002200i;0 40i 0: 0 
:EUOUEN1. >Bahia BlcncO
40"           (dN QUNEGOVJd'~ARETN
RIOEDCTINPRJC
NE R                                                                                                                     AO- ROIC  CPTL
--PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
so"~ ~ ~                               GoIe9o 000 <   ..i..  h0    2000000                                       300Sd000000000000  4000  50000000X  60i5? twsS?i800e cr 09es i LOMni O? TOeRSd a
;;0 fg  t0  ; 0     1(U   a -  Z&;;;0 f000;"I000?tW ,,-'ip0 f                     0;X0   10       200     300i 45?  00 e5
0:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~E   P f      f  ;f f ffR;:             )iSUEGRO  j...tA   LES:   ;Sudgmentd; antelgl ttso ny  territo,y,or cany endors<emrent or 
CHUBUT X ;:;A0Q0X:  giVf.Q000S0X0X;;X0q;;j000000:00d?;',0000000s;000000000000000t'V000000   0X;;.0:0X0;t;5]0XMARCH 1998



IBRD 29449
I                I          '         wK           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I . I.
66s                               64°                                62                                 60°
ARGENTINA
THIRD SECONDARY                                             ENTRE RIOS
EDUCATION PROJECT                                   'p
PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES                             .'                                1           URUGUAY
. /            4t'~~~. K,,,: -...,' .
34-                                                  -
CORDOBA     SANTA FE .'                                -3
-w                 7       z      < ,'i ' 2-     VRBUENOS A
[           -, N v  / X< S<ark= d >//\  ,6
<~~~~
.                      /a X   > X     /        <4X\ -t$, 
/~~~~~~~~~~~
-36°      i                                                         V > , /   \/        a                                     <'
Is  1                      '       0  //<\      @        < /.             //      \X4',X 
/ >ggS \ j \\\ < k aMor ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~del Plaht8 
! ) , X --                                      2        X\ c.                     a o, 365 50  75  100
I  ,>                          'N8bUnme-b7sicNsindA7   - I     N3AG TI
, K- ..:. JAar \MPO                                     /                      \ \      eFl+ l;>hct>li r
66° 64' jdX<>fctRU o{,bn1 oq -l                               J41 1             '-U                                      G A
10,1-25.0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~MAC 1998
0~
mi-unet Bsic eedsi/de
I                                           N'                     >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ie,SIMPO
7  /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                    77K.~~~~~FLKDS~NI
A~o ii  c othp~ n#,pd fTh o/  o
G-p, ow judg-- - *v4V -,                     Mar-y e-iP-y,a- -
66U 64                                           7ww  i crkfvo uhbtxoe
"'N                               0   25  50 ~~~~~~~~~~~~MRC 1998



