Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25549
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-43 130)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$119 MILLION EQUIVALENr
TO THE
PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES
ARGENTINA
FOR A
THIRD SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES
03/21/2003



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Febnrary 2003)
Currency Unit = Argentinean Peso
AR$1 = US$ 0.315
US$ 1 = AR$3.170
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIJE          Extra-curricular activities (Apoyo a las Iniciativas de los Jovenes en las Escuelas)
COPRET        Provincial Commission on Technical Education
EGB           General Basic Education (Preschool to grade 9)
EGB3          Grades 7 to 9 of General Basic Education
IDECE         histitute for the Assessment of Quality of Education
IRR           Internal rate of return
LA            Loan Agreement
PBA           Province of Buenos Aires, Argentina
PEI           Institutional Pedagogical Plan (Proyecto Educativo Institucional)
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
PME           Provincial Ministry of Education (Direccion General de Educacion y Culta)
POLIMODAL Grades 10 to 12
PRODYMES      Programa de Descentralizacion y Mejoramiento de la Secundaria y Dsarrollo de la
Educacion Polimodal
PROFEI        Institutional Pedagogical Strengthening (Programa de Fortalecimiento Educaivo
Institucional)
SINEC         National Student Assessment System
TTPs          Technical pathways (Trayectos Tecnicos Profesionales)
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Axel Van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager/Director:  Ana-Maria Ariagada
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Juan Prawda



ARGENTINA
Secondary Education 3
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               23
9. Partner Comments                                                              25
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37






Project ID: P050714                                     Project Name: Secondary Education 3
Team Leader: Juan Prawda                                TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: March 21, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: Secondary Education 3                        L/C/TFNumber: SCL-43130
Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                          Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Sub-national government administration (10%);
Secondary Education (90%).
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   10/10/1997                            Effective: 07/01/1998         12/23/1998
Appraisal:  02/18/1998                              MTR: 12/04/2000            12/04/2000
Approval:  04/09/1998                             Closing: 12/31/2001         12/31/2002
Borrower/ImplementingAgency:  PROVINCE OF BUENOS AIRES OF THE REPUBLIC OF
ARGENTINA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION OF THE PROVINCE OF BUENOS
AIRES
Other Partners: NONE
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Axel Van Trotsenburg                     Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Manager:      Marito H. Garcia                         Donald Winkler
Team Leader at ICR:  Juan Prawda                              William Experton
ICR Primary Author:  Juan Prawda
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the project was to improve secondary education in grades 7 to 9 (known as EGB3)



and 10 to 12 (known as polymodal) in the Province of Buenos Aires (PBA), Argentina. In particular, the
project intended to: (a) increase the completion rate of secondary education; (b) improve the learning
process at the school level; and (c) improve the skills of graduates of secondary schools in order to
facilitate entrance into the labor market.
This project, known as Tercer Programa de Descentralizacion y Mejoramiento de la Secundaria y
Desarrollo de la Educacion Polimodal (PRODYMES III), was conceived in the framework of the
Educational Reform emerging from the Decentralization Law 24.049 (1992), the Federal Education Law
24.195 (April 14, 1993) and the Provincial Education Law 11.612 (1994). The Decentralization Law
transferred the responsibility of conducting public education to the Provinces for preschool to upper
secondary (grade 12). The Federal Law of Education modified the educational structure and proposed the
basis for a curricular change. Accordingly, the Provinces that adopted this new structure, like the PBA,
provided one grade of preschool, a six-year primary cycle (divided into two cycles of three years each
labeled EGBI and EGB2) and a three-year cycle of lower secondary (EGB3). The Provincial Law of
Education made it compulsory for the corresponding school-age population in the PBA to attend the
nine-year cycle, including one of preschool, known as general basic education (Educacion General Basica
or EGB) and offered, in a non-compulsory fashion, the opportunity for a three-year upper secondary known
as polimodal. Before the introduction of the Education Reform in the PBA, it was compulsory to complete
only 7 grades of basic education.
The polimodal level aims to provide general and sector-specific competencies and abilities to allow
graduates to function in different social and labor contexts. The polimodal level was established in five
modalities (Humanistic and Social Science; Natural Science; Production of Goods and Services; Economy
and Administration; and Communication, Art and Design). In addition, for the technical and agricultural
secondary schools only, the polimodal curriculum also included the definition and establishment of
technical professional pathways (Trayectos Tecnicos Profesionals or TTPs) in seven professional fields
(Business Administration, Electronics, Electromechanical, Construction, Agricultural Production,
Information Computer Technology and Industrial Processing).
The implementation of the Educational Reform in the PBA was carried out in 4 stages. During the first
stage (starting in 1995), the new curriculum for grades 1, 4 and 7 of the EGB was implemented. The
second stage (1996) incorporated the revised curriculum for grades 2, 5 and 8. The third stage (1997)
incorporated the revised curriculum for grades 3, 6 and 9. Finally, the last stage (1998) initiated the
gradual curricular implementation of the polimodal level along with the definition of the TTPs. This last
stage was concluded in 2000. The PBA was the first Province in the entire country to have successfully
implemented the polimodal level.
This investment complemented the two ongoing Bank-financed projects for the Decentralization and
Improvement of Secondary Education PRODYMES I and II (Ln.3794-AR and 3971-AR respectively).
PRODYMES I (that closed in June 30, 2001) was implemented in six provinces, the PBA being one of
them, while PRODYMES II (to close in June 30, 2003) is being implemented in 630 high-risk targeted
secondary schools in the entire country, including about 200 in the PBA. In the case of the PBA, these two
investments supported the administrative reform in the education sector, the rehabilitation of 8th grade
classrooms, the second phase of the polymodal transformation, the provision of learning educational
resources (multimedia resource centers, science and computer laboratories) and the implementation of
school-based improvement projects. PRODYMES III is also articulated with the ongoing PRODYMES
III-A (Ln.4586-AR) in the PBA which aims at increasing access to quality education and improving the
quality and equity of secondary education services by supporting the implementation of the full-day
schedule in about 200 selected high-risk and targeted EGB3 schools in the province.
-2-



3.2 Revised Objective:
Despite the fact that this Loan experienced six amendments to the Loan Agreement (LA) including
reallocation in Schedule 1 to the LA (fully explained in section 3.4 of the ICR), the original objectives
remained unchanged with respect to its goal of supporting the implementation of the educational reform in
EGB3 and polimodal throughout the entire implementation period.
Although the expansion of access under the project was originally conceived for both EGB3 and polimodal,
the project concentrated its support to the polimodal level in order to facilitate the transition of graduates
from the expanded EGB3 to polimodal. As explained in section 3.4, due to the eight month delay of the
National Ministry of Economy in signing the Loan Guarantee Agreement, the urgently needed expansion of
EGB3 was entirely financed by the PBA. Nonetheless, the project was instrumental in the expansion of the
EGB3.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following three components: (A) expansion of access to secondary education; (B)
improvement of quality and relevance of secondary education; and (C) project administration.
Component A included: (i) the construction of new classrooms to accommodate the 9th grade of EGB3; and
(ii) the rehabilitation of all schools that have adopted the mandatory education cycle pursuant to the Federal
Education Law and the Provincial Education Law in order to accommodate the influx of secondary
education students.
Component B included: (i) the institutional strengthening to facilitate the transition to the polymodal
curriculum at participating schools (about 200 unprivileged and educationally at-risk polymodal schools);
(ii) the restructuring of 40 technical and agricultural secondary schools out of a universe of 244; and (c) the
establishment and execution of school-based extracurricular programs in the participating schools.
The institutional strengthening to facilitate the transition to the polymodal curriculum at participating
schools was intended to be carried out through: (a) the training of all supervisors with respect to guidance,
supervision and development of the school-based plans, as well as the improvement of their technical
assistance and evaluation skills; (b) the provision of training and technical assistance for the administrative
teams of the schools with emphasis on school management, institutional administration and pedagogical
supervision; (c) the provision of technical assistance to each school's committees in charge of the
development and implementation of the school-based plans; (d) the establishment and operation on a pilot
basis of a quality evaluation and monitoring system for the participating schools; and (e) piloting of a high
standard curriculum (a new curriculum equivalent to the international baccalaureate introduced by the
Consejo General de Educaci6n of the PBA) and its evaluation in five schools.
The restructuring of 40 technical and agricultural schools was intended to be carried out through: (a) the
provision of up-to-date, sophisticated, educational resources; (b) the provision of in-service training with
respect to the utilization of new educational resources and the pedagogical practices and subject content for
technical education; (c) the rehabilitation of workshops and classrooms to receive the new equipment and
learning resources in appropriate and safe facilities; and (d) the promotion of collaborative links between
the technical schools and the private sector.
Component C provided support for the administration of the project through the project implementation
- 3 -



unit (PIU).
The cost by component and sub-component and the source of financing at the time of appraisal is shown
below.
Component           Total     % of      Bank      % of    Government     % of
cost    total cost  (US$M)   total      (US$M)       total
(US$M)                       financing               financing
(A) Expansion of access    141.0     83.0      92.7      65.7        48.3       34.3
(i) Construction of        43.0      25.3      30.1      70.3        12.9       29.7
classrooms
(ii) Rehabilitation of schools  91.0  53.6     58.2      64.0        32.8       36.0
(iii) Construction of       7.0       4.1      4.4       62.9        2.6        37.1
bathrooms
(B) Quality and relevance  27.4      16.1      24.7      0.90        2.7        0.10
improvement
(i) Institutional strengthening  4.5  2.6      4.4       0.98        0.1        0.02
at the school level (PROFEI)
(ii) Educational resources and  14.2  8.4      12.8      0.90        1.4        0.10
teacher training for technical
schools
(iii) Extra curricular activities  8.7  5.1    7.5       0.86        1.2        0.14
for youth (AIJEs)
(C) Project administration  1.5       0.9       1.5     100.0        0.0         0.0
Total                      170.0     100.0     119.0     70.0        51.0        30.0
Total cost includes contingencies
Totals may not add due to rounding errors
3.4 Revised Components:
The loan agreement underwent six amendments during the implementation cycle (December 1998 to
December 2002), none of which affected its original objective of supporting the educational reform in the
PBA. All of them were proposed by the PBA, and approved by the Bank, demonstrating great execution
flexibility by allowing to: (i) better utilize the Loan proceeds based on the implementation progress shown
by the project and on the efficiencies achieved in several categories of expenditure; (ii) fine-tune priorities
as assessed and recommended by the Bank during the mid-term review of December 2000 and subsequent
supervision missions; (iii) ensure connectivity with the Internet and the Education Web Site of all the
computer laboratories installed in PRODYMES III secondary schools under the project and also under
PRODYMES II; (iv) consolidate the pedagogical and management gains achieved throughout the project
implementation cycle as reported consistently in the corresponding PSRs and supervision mission Aide
Memoires; (v) consolidate all the actions taken under the project to strengthen institutional capacity at the
provincial educational management units and the schools; and (vi) timely address the EGB3 and polimodal
students' social demands caused by the severe financial and economic crisis in the PBA.
The following table summarizes each amendment by explaining the change, its justification and the date
when this amendment became effective (more explanation is provided in section 4.2).
-4 -



Summary of amendments
Component                Change               Justification          Amendment
Expansion of Access    Expansion of access to  Delay in signing the Loan  First, June 05, 2000
polimodal instead of 9th  Guarantee Agreement by
grade                  the National Ministry of
Economy forced the
province to finance 9th
grade classroom
construction with its own
resources (US$176
million)
Quality and relevance  Provision of equipment  Need to expand AIJEs   Second, January 25, 2001
and school furniture
required in the expansion
of AIJEs to 100 additional
_ schools                         _
Quality and relevance  Ensure connectivity with  Consolidation of all the  Third, June 6, 2001
Internet and the Education actions taken under the
Web Site of all the    project to strengthen
computer laboratories  institutional capacity at the
installed in PRODYMES  provincial educational
III secondary schools  management units and the
under the Loan and also  schools
under PRODYMES II
Quality and relevance  Increase the scope of the  Provide more basic (less-  Fourth, September 26,
restructuring of technical  sophisticated) up-to-date  2001
schools from 40 to 244  learning equipment
attuned with the schools
Project implementation  Extends the closing date to institutional technical
June 30, 2002          plans and labor market
technological needs to the
entire universe of technical
and agricultural secondary
schools.
Quality and Relevance  Provision of basic learning Severe economic crisis  Fifth, February 22, 2002
supplies for about one
million targeted secondary
students at-risk in EGB3
and polimodal schools
Project implementation  Extends the closing date to Need to complete the  Sixth, June 11, 2002
December 31, 2002      provision of basic learning
supplies and the learning
equipment to the 244
technical and agricultural
secondary schools.
-5 -



Despite, the economic crisis faced by the PBA, the project was satisfactorily completed, requiring only one
year extension to the original closing date. Effective project implementation compensated for early delays
in the project cycle, due to the eight-month wait to grant project effectiveness (December 23, 1998) after
Board approval (April 9, 1998), and the delay of about a little over one year in getting the Institutional
Pedagogical Strengthening (Programa de Fortalecimiento Educativo Institucional [PROFEI]) and the
extra-curricular activities for students at-risk (Apoyo a las Iniciativas de los Jovenes en las Escuelas
[AIJES]) off the ground.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project preparation was carried out in the context of the Quality at Entry Criteria required by the
Bank for all new investments since 1998. Accordingly, the project is consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy prevailing in the 1997-1998 period (document 16505-AR, preliminary draft of May
15, 1997 and final version of March 17, 1998, paras. 20, 46 and 47). The project was prepared by a group
of qualified professionals appointed by the authorities of the PBA, thus ensuring Borrower's ownership
during the entire project preparation and implementation process. The entire project preparation team was
also involved in the implementation of the PBA's share of PRODYMES I and II, as well as with the Inter-
American Development Bank's-financed Programa de Reformas e Inversiones en el Sector Educacion
(PRISE) project for improvement of the quality and coverage in EGB1 and EGB2. The project design was
closely articulated with the ongoing PRODYMES I (Loan 3794-AR) and II (Loan 3971-AR)
Bank-financed sector investments in the PBA. In addition, the project preparation process incorporated
relevant lessons learned from these two previous sector operations in the PBA, and from other sector
investment worldwide. As a consequence, total project preparation time, from identification (August 5,
1997) to Board approval, was about 8 months (less than one third of the time it took to prepare and
negotiate PRODYMES I). Another lesson incorporated into the design from PRODYMS I focused on
ensuring operational clarity regarding the curricular content and implementation strategy of the Educational
Reform in the PBA. A thorough cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out during the
preparation. Likewise, a social assessment study was conducted during the preparation stage in January
1998.
On the downside, project implementation readiness could have improved at the lending stage, especially
with respect to the pedagogical components of the project (PROFEI and AIJES) by ensuring, from the
outset of project implementation: (i) clearer set of school targeting criteria (satisfactorily addressed during
the first year of project implementation after effectiveness); and (ii) a better articulation between the PIU
and their corresponding units at the mainstream structure of the Provincial Ministry of Education (PME)
(also' satisfactorily addressed at the end of the first year of project implementation). The design did not
include a first-year implementation and procurement plan that could have ensured speedier and more
effective international bidding procedures for the acquisition of the learning equipment for the technical and
agricultural secondary schools.
The project design included appropriate project performance indicators and base-line information.
However, the design did not include a monitoring and evaluation system to update this information. This
situation was corrected by the PIU after the mid-term review mission.
- 6-



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Based on the following quantitative and qualitative information presented below, the implementation of
PRODYMES III was highly satisfactory with respect to increasing the promotion rates from EGB3 to
polimodal, and polimodal completion rates, and reducing average repetition rates at the polimodal level in
all the 198 high-risk project schools. The reason for assigning a highly satisfactory ranking for these
objectives only, stems from the fact that the project's achievements are slightly beyond the corresponding
expected targets set at appraisal, especially in a context of severe financial and economic crisis, like the one
in Argentine since mid-1999.
To estimate the project impact in achieving its first objective - increasing the completion rate of secondary
education - a comparison was made between 50 project schools (randomly selected from a universe of 198,
instead of the 200 considered at appraisal) with another 50 non-project schools as a control-group with
similar socioeconomic characteristics, and with the totality of schools in the province. The transition rates
from EGB3 to the polimodal level (from grade 9 to 10) increased in the period 1998-2001 from 88 to
98.1% in the project schools (a total of 11.5%) exceeding the control group's increase from 88 to 94.4% (a
total of 7.3%). Overall transition rates for all the EGB3 schools in the province, including the private ones,
increased from 93 to 97.1% (a total of 4.4%). The transition targets set at appraisal in February 1998
(from 93% to 98%) were achieved.
The completion rate of the polimodal level in the period 1998-2001 increased from 14 to 53.7% (283.6%)
in project schools, and from 14 to 49% (250%) in the control group. The average polimodal completion
rate in the PBA went from 18.5 to 50.2% (171.4%). The target set at appraisal (from 18.5 to 50%) was
exceeded by 3.7 percentage points. To slightly exceed this target, the project significantly decreased
average repetition rates in this level. Accordingly, average repetition rates in project polimodal schools
decreased in the 1998-2001 period from 15.6 to 6.6% (a reduction of 57.3%) as compared with a decrease
from 15.7 to 13.2% (15.9%) in the control group and from 15.6 to 13% (16.3%) in the entire province.
The repetition rate target of 7% set at appraisal was exceeded.
Completion rates in polimodal also improved as a consequence of: (i) increased access to EGB3 (explained
below); (ii) the fellowship program established by the PBA in 1999; (iii) the school feeding program
financed by the PBA to EGB3 and polimodal schools; and (iv) improvements in the physical conditions of
the school buildings. It is the ICR mission's view that completion rates might further improve as a
consequence of the recent provision of basic learning supplies carried out under the framework of the
Province's emergency program and financed by the project (detailed below).
With respect to the project's second objective - improving the learning process at the school level - a
comparison was made of the learning achievement results in the third grade of polimodal (grade 12)
provided by the National (censal) Student Assessment System (SINEC financed by PRODYMES I) in
2000 between the project schools and the control group. Accordingly, the average learning achievement
score in Spanish was 56.9% in the project schools against 53.5% in the control group, that is 3.5
percentage points more in the project schools but lower than the 68% set as a target at appraisal. The
average learning score in Spanish in the province was 55.2%. The average learning achievement score in
Math was 59.7% in the project schools against 58.2% in the control group and 58.9% in the entire
province. The difference of 1.4 percentage points is not significant and the achieved target is lower than
the 68% set at appraisal.
-7 -



Notwithstanding the positive and satisfactory learning achievement results, these need to be placed within
the following context. First, the learning targets set at appraisal (as shown in Annex 1) were based on the
results of the Provincial Learning Assessment System, for the previous year (1997), as SINEC was still not
fully operational. The findings of 2000 correspond to the universal measurement undertaken by SIEC in
the entire country. In that respect, the findings of 1997 (which were used to set the baseline) and those for
2000 (which are used in the ICR) are not totally comparable. Second, due to the severe economic
conditions in Argentina, no national learning assessment was carried out by SINEC during 2001, thus there
is no data for that year. A sample assessment was carried out in 2002 by IDECE (SINEC with a new
name), for which the findings have not yet been published. Third, the thrust of PRODYMES III in
improving the learning process through its different interventions (explained in section 4.2 of the ICR) took
place in 2001 and 2002. Thus, the real impact of the project in improving learning achievement will be
shown by the results of the learning achievement assessment to be administered by IDECE in 2003.
Control group of 50                   Original
Project schools   non-project schools  Provincial average  Target
(%)                 (%)                (%)           (%)
Impact indicators   1998  2001   Dif   1998   2001    Dif   1998  2001   Dif
Transition rate from
EGB3 to polimodal    88    98.1  11.5   88    94.4   7.27    93   97.1   4.4     98
Polimodal completion
rate                 14    53.7  283.6  14     49    250.0  18.5  50.2  171.4    50
Language in third grade
of poliomal                56.9               53.5                55.2           68
Math in third grade of
poliomal                   59.7               58.2                58.9           68
Repetition rates     15.6  6.6   57.3   15.7  13.2   15.9   15.6   13    16.3    7
It is more difficult to assess the impact of the project with respect to its third objective - improving the
skills of graduates of secondary schools in order to facilitate entrance into the labor market. First, no
tracer studies were carried out to follow up a random sample of the graduates of the polimodal level and
assess their access and performance in the labor market. Second, it was not until December 2001 that the
first class completed the polimodal level in the PBA. Their completion date coincides with the severe
Argentinean economic crisis which experienced an increase of the open unemployment from about 18% in
2000 to 24% in 2002, thus significantly reducing the opportunities for these graduates to enter into the
labor market. It is the ICR mission's conclusion that this project objective set in early 1998 became
unrealistic in a context of constant economic deterioration since mid-1989 (GDP decreased 16% in 2002)
and increased open unemployment and poverty. Therefore, the ICR mission considered it appropriate not
to assign any performance ranking to this developmental objective.
Even without the tracer studies, qualitative information exists, collected in three focus groups with about
- 8-



110 teachers and school principals and vice-principals from 50 randomly selected project schools
(including EGB3, polimodal, technical and agricultural secondary schools) during the supervision missions
of August 2001 and May 2002, and the ICR mission of December 2002, indicating that: (i) access to
EGB3 was significantly increased (as detailed in section 4.2 of the ICR), especially benefiting poor
students; (ii) school stakeholders felt significant improvements in the pedagogical practices in the
classrooms and managerial leadership from their school principals as a product of component B; (iii)
supervisors are gradually changing their administrative role to being a more proactive promoter of the
educational transformation aimed by the reform; (iv) schools are becoming more attractive for youth,
generating positive attitudinal changes in at-risk students as a consequence of the extra-curricular activities
financed by the project; and (v) the technical schools have become more relevant to the technological
changes. In addition, there was consensus among the participants in the focus groups that, with a few
exceptions, the linking of technical and agricultural secondary schools with the productive sector has been
weak, mainly because the severe unemployment affecting the country in general, and the province in
particular, since mid-1999.
In summary, having assigned a highly satisfactory ranking to the first project objective (increasing the
completion rate of secondary education), satisfactory to the second project objective (improving the
learning process at the school level) and no ranking to the third project objective (proving the skills of
graduates of secondary schools in order to facilitate entrance into the labor market ) for the reasons
explained above, the ICR mission assigns a satisfactory ranking to the overall outcome of this investment.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Expanding access to secondary education. With respect to the first project component - expanding
access to secondary education - the 9th-EGB3 grade enrollment in the 198 project schools increased from
29,780 to 33,758 students (13.4%) in the 1997-2001 period. The enrollment in the 9th grade in all the
EGB3 schools in the province, including the private ones, increased from 222,182 to 244,214 students
(9.9%) during the same period. This increase is 1.8% larger than the target set at appraisal in the PAD of
240,000 students. The enrollment expansion favored the less privileged areas of the PBA as the 198
project schools were selected according to criteria to improve equity in lower income and high-risk
populations. Another form of measurement was to compare the enrollment of the 9th grade in 50 project
schools selected randomly and a control group of 50 non-project schools of similar socio-econornic
conditions. The increase in the 50 project schools went from 12,120 to 13,440 (10.9%) while the increase
in the control group was from 12,240 to 13,224 (8%).
Construction and rehabilitation of schools. The original construction targets included in the PAD
amounted to 1,336 new 9th grade classrooms and the rehabilitation of 1,775 EGB3 schools. However, an
eight-month delay in having the Central Government (national Ministry of Economy) sign the required
Loan Guarantee Agreement delayed Loan Agreement effectiveness. The urgent need to respond to social
demand for further expansion of secondary education forced the Government of the PBA to finance with its
own fiscal resources the 9th grade expansion and EGB3 school rehabilitation (US$176 million). Once the
signed Loan Guarantee Agreement was submitted to the Bank and the Loan Agreement became effective,
the PBA requested a change of the project's construction scope and targets without changing the project's
original objectives. Accordingly, agreement was reached with the Bank during the November 1998
supervision mission to utilize project funds to instead expand access to the polimodal level. Under this new
scope, the polimodal school became the project construction unit and not the 9th grade classroom. A
polimodal school includes, besides the teaching classrooms, a computer laboratory, a science laboratory, a
multimedia learning resource center, a workshop (in the case of the technical and agricultural secondary
schools), an auditorium, administrative spaces, sport facilities and bathrooms. The new outcome targets
-9-



included the: (i) construction of 83 new polimodal schools, amounting to about 669 polimodal classrooms
(with a unit construction cost of about US$26,800 per polimodal classroom instead of the appraised
US$24,250 per 9th grade classroom); and (ii) rehabilitation of an additional 21 polimodal schools
(amounting to a total of 107 classrooms).  The Bank provided its no-objection to this request.
Subsequently, in June 5, 2000, the Bank approved the first amendment to Schedule I to the Loan
Agreement to ensure the completion of the envisaged polimodal classrooms. This amendment, in turn
increased the total amount of counterpart funding by about US$2.1 million equivalent as compared with the
estimates at appraisal (as further described in section 5.4 of the ICR).
This construction effort financed by the project is equivalent to the provision of a total of 776 classrooms
(669 new and 107 rehabilitated), including 76 computer laboratories, 45 workshops (for technical and
agricultural secondary schools) and 70 auditoriums. The project achieved the totality of the construction
and rehabilitation revised targets. A total of 1,076 classrooms, including an additional 300 to the ones
mentioned above, were provided with appropriate, and functional, school furniture financed by the project.
This school furniture is adaptable to the different curricular modalities offered by the polimodal level.
The ICR mission highlighted the implementation efficiency and effectiveness of this project component.
Accordingly, the average square meter price achieved by the project was US$532 equivalent, 13% less to
the US$600 considered at appraisal and substantially lower than of the unit cost estimated for private
providers and other similar governmental projects including the PRISE and the Plan Social Educativo
projects for EGB1 and EGB2 schools. These savings resulted from the competitiveness accomplished
during the bidding processes and the appropriate high-quality, consistent and timely supervision of the
works conducted under the project.  According to the ICR mission's civil works specialist, the
architectonical designs utilized by the project adequately responded to the curricular needs of the polimodal
level and to the social needs of the student population attending these schools.
lmpproving the quality and relevance of secondary education. The second project component -
improving the quality and relevance of secondary education - utilized, in its initial stages, a three-prong
approach including the following sub-components: (i) Institutional Strengthening (PROFEI), to facilitate
the transition process to the new polimodal curriculum; (ii) the restructuring of 40 technical schools
through the introduction of the polimodal curriculum, the 1TPs and the provision of up-to-date
(sophisticated) educational/learning equipment and resources (extended in 2001 to the entire universe of
244 technical and agricultural secondary schools); and (iii) the extra-curricular activities for students
at-risk (AIJES). Under this component, the project also contributed to the institutional strengthening of the
PME. Finally, to respond to the social crisis generated by the severe economic situation faced by the PBA,
a program to provide basic learning supplies to EGB3 and polimodal students at-risk was financed by the
project in early 2002 under the framework of the Emergency Program launched by the PBA.
PROFEI. The PROFEI pedagogical and institutional strategy and related-activities started in 1998, albeit
with some initial delays and difficulties that lasted over a year. This starting point coincided with the
introduction of the first-year of the polimodal level curriculum. The PROFEI activities targeted 198
project schools in 16 school regions of the PBA. During the life of the project, PROFEI undertook 1,144
pedagogical events (workshops) that benefited 8,892 EGB3 and polimodal teachers, school principals,
vice-principals (school administrators), and provincial supervisors belonging to the project schools. In
addition, the experience gained by PROFEI under the project was extended to 705 other non-project
polimodal schools in the PBA benefiting 2,575 school stakeholders in 42 workshops financed by the
project. PROFEI met the targets set at appraisal, benefitting: (i) 268 provincial supervisors (100%); and
(ii) 198 school principals and 198 vice-principals (100%).
-10-



PROFEI provided technical assistance to the project schools contributing to the: (i) redefinition of the roles
and responsibilities of the different stakeholders in EGB3 and polimodal schools with respect to the
Educational Reform under implementation and the introduction of the new polimodal curriculum; (ii)
preparation of the school-based Institutional Pedagogical Plan (Proyecto Educativo Institucional [PEI]) in
each participating project school indicating how the school was to implement, in an integrated, coordinated
and systemic fashion, the reform and the new curriculum; (iii) provision of technical assistance to each
school's committee in charge of the development and implementation of their PEI; (iv) introduction of
pedagogical and institutional accountability agreements (Contratos Educativos e Institucionales) with each
school stakeholder indicating agreed responsibilities and targets to be achieved in the the implementation of
the reform and the new curriculum in the framework of their PETs; (v) improvement of team work; (vi)
improvement of pedagogical practices in the classroom; (vii) training of all supervisors with respect to
guidance, supervision and development of the PEIs, as well as the improvement of their technical assistance
and evaluation skills; (viii) provision of training and technical assistance for the administrative teams of the
schools with emphasis on school management, institutional administration and pedagogical supervision;
(ix) establishment and operation on a pilot basis of a quality evaluation and monitoring system for
participating schools; and (x) better utilization of the learning materials and physical spaces financed under
the project and attuned to the pedagogical changes under implementation.
The three focus groups that interacted with the Bank's supervision missions in 2001 and 2002 highly
commended PROFE's efforts. According to their testimony, PROFEI assisted, in a consistent fashion,
participating teachers, principals, vice-principals, and supervisors in setting clear school and individual
working goals, and to translate the curricular objectives of the reform into concrete pedagogical and
managerial/leadership and supervisory/facilitation actions. PROFEI facilitated team work inside the
school. It also provide the participants with appropriate evaluation instruments and procedures to assess
their pedagogical and/or managerial work and their team working effectiveness. The sample PEIs reviewed
during the supervision and ICR missions contained clear school objectives and strategies to achieve them.
PROFEI was complemented with other actions, initially financed by PRODYMES I, and currently totally
finance with PBA's fiscal resources, including: (i) school mapping of the totality of polimodal schools in the
province; and (ii) the provision of about 13,000 booklets referred to as the "Implementation of the
Polimodal Education", and "Polimodal Curricular Design", among others, and of six institutional videos
related to the polimodal education.
The original project design included under PROFEI the piloting of a high-standard curriculum equivalent to
the international baccalaureate in five project schools. The curriculum was to be defined by the PME with
its own financial resources and piloted with the project's proceeds. However, given the severe financial and
economic crisis in Argentina, and in the PBA in particular, the PME lacked the appropriate financial
resources to contract the qualified pedagogical technical assistance for the elaboration of this high-standard
curriculum. In addition, the continuous economic deterioration in the province made it politically
impractical to launch this initiative in a few high-risk, project schools. Thus, with Bank agreement, no
piloting was ever introduced in the intended five schools during the life of the project.
On the downside, PROFEI provided insufficient attention in order to attune the provision of teacher
training, technical assistance and the delivery of learning equipment in a timely manner. In the focus
groups, teachers expressed a rather negative opinion of the quality and pertinence of the training contracted
with universities by the Direction of Higher Education of the PME responsible for the training of school
managers and teachers. This lack of appropriateness is mostly attributed, among others factors, to the
rather limited articulation between PROFEI's Technical Assistance and the Direction of Higher Education
of the PME. Along the same lines, the multimedia resource centers, the science and computer laboratories
-1 1-



provided by PRODYMES H in the PBA, were not always preceded by the necessary training of the
teachers under either PRODYMES I and/or PROFEI.
Furthermore, it is the ICR mission's view that PROFEI could have improved substantially its
implementation by ensuring a more conducive institutional environment, including: (i) a more systematic
involvement of the schools inspectors in its implementation; (ii) nominating personnel responsible for
managing the multimedia resource centers, and the science and computer laboratories; (iii) restructuring the
Teachers Statute in order to concentrate teachers' activities in fewer number of schools; and (iv) allotting
time to teachers and principals to have internal discussions and actions on pedagogical matters.
Although not directly under the responsibility of the project, but affecting PROFEI, the curricular reform is
being undermined by administrative and organizational problems such as: (i) insufficient training of
teachers in specific disciplines; (ii) the excessive number of interim teachers; (iii) the lack of articulation in
the same school building of the EGB3 (in many schools, grade 7 of EGB3 is located in an EGB2 school)
and polimodal students; (iv) the heterogeneous composition of students due to the explosive increase of the
enrollment; and (v) the resistence of many teachers to modify1ing up the traditional concept of secondary
school (prior to the reform).
Reestructuring technical and agricultural secondary schools. The original project design included the
provision of very sophisticated, up-to-date, educational/earning equipment and resources (estimated to cost
about US$300,000 per contract) to substantially restructure 40 technical schools to make them more
attuned to the needs of the labor market. After experiencing many difficulties, an international bidding
procedure was completed in 2000 for the acquisition of such equipment for 23 of the 40 targeted project
schools. As a consequence of the lessons learned from this international bidding procedure (explained in
section 8(h)), the PBA requested an amendment to the Loan Agreement (LA) from the Bank in 2001 to
acquire more up-to-date, but less-sophisticated, basic educationallearning equipment and resources
(costing less than US$20,000 per school) for the totality of the 244 technical and agricultural schools. This
provision of learning equipment was based on: (i) the institutional technological plans prepared and
proposed by each of these schools (Proyecto Tecnico InstitucionaO; (ii) having these plans technically
evaluated by a third qualified party - the Scientific Research Commission of the PBA (Comisi6n de
Investigaciones Cientificas de la Provincia de Buenos Aires) - before engaging in the procurement
process; and (iii) having the school's Cooperative Association acquire the approved equipment through a
shopping procedure satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank provided its no-objection and the LA was amended
accordingly on September 26, 2001 (fourth amendment). Schools were grouped according to their TTPs
(Business Administration, Electronics, Electromechanical, Construction, Agricultural Production,
Information Computer Technology, Industrial Processing) and procurement packages costing less than
US$100,000 per contract were procured under the shopping procedure satisfactory to the Bank.
At the time of the ICR mission, 100% of the learning equipment sets had been acquired, but only about
40% had been delivered to the respective technical and agricultural schools. These were fully functional
and the school personnel appropriately trained by the provider. The remaining 60% of the sets were
delivered before the closing date. A total of 267 school technical teams, equivalent to 1,600 teachers were
trained to use this equipment (as compared with 350 teachers estimated at appraisal). The average cost of
a set provided to the schools was about US$18,400. The ICR mission carried out a field visit to 4
technical/agricultural secondary schools randomly selected and confirmed that the learning equipment was
being fully utilized by students and teachers. The visit also confirmed the high degree of ownership of
these equipment acquired under the technical specifications provided by the recipient school and validated
by the Scientific Research Commission of the PBA.
- 12-



AIJEs. AIJE financed school-based extra-curricular proposals for youth at-risk studying in EGB3 and
polimodal schools. These proposals were aimed at making a better use of the students' free time and to
connect the school with the surrounding community. AIJE was also an important strategy to reduce the
dropout rate, especially among the students at-risk in project schools. After more than a year delay in
getting the AIJES off the ground, a recommendation was made during the mid-term review of December
2000 to expand this project sub-component to 100 additional schools beyond those considered at appraisal.
Accordingly, a second amendment to the LA, approved on January 25, 2001, reallocated Loan proceeds to
support the provision of equipment and school furniture required in the AIJEs expansion.
The project financed the preparation of 483 youth proposals, of which 287 were approved and 217
implemented. According to the testimonies collected during the three focus groups, AIJEs significantly
improved the relationship of the students with the school authorities, and better integrated the school with
its surrounding community. The proposals financed and implemented through AUJES included artistic
activities, sports, crafts, journalism, vocational training and social services to the community. The
following are only some examples of approved and implemented AIJEs projects: (i) carnping; (ii) school
radio and closed TV; (iii) photography; (iv) school parcel (orchard); (v) sexual awareness and
communicable diseases; (vi) information technology; and (vi) scientific projects. About 30% of the student
population of project schools (against 25% set as a target at appraisal) participated in the AIJES.
Additionally, the project carried out an event to disseminate and promote interactions among the schools.
Institutional strengthening. To complement the institutional strengthening initiated in the education sector
of the PBA under PRODYMES I and continued by PRODYMES IH, the project financed, under the
framework of the third amendment approved in June 6, 2001, the provision of technical assistance to: (i)
ensure connectivity with the Internet and the Education Web Site of all the computers provided by the
project (and, also by PRODYMES H) to the schools' computer laboratories; and (ii) consolidate all the
actions taken under the provincial management decentralization process in the education sector.
Accordingly, the project financed the completion of the: (i) teachers' only roster (Legajo Unico Docente) in
the entire province; and (ii) students' only roster (Cedula Escolar) in all the schools of the province. The
teachers' roster will be integrated to the monthly teacher payroll system during 2003. To implement the
students' roster, the project financed the acquisition of 1,811 computers, 7 servers and 1,741 printers to
schools in the province and trained 16,000 administrative staff at these schools. The operation of these two
systems, which are fully functional, has been successfully transferred to the Directorate General for
Planning within the Ministry of Education of the PBA.
Provision of basic learning supplies. To respond to the social demand of secondary education students
at-risk caused by the severe economic crisis in the Province, an emergency program providing basic
learning supplies was launched under the project in early 2002. The Bank provided its no-objection and a
fifth amendment to the Loan Agreement was approved in February 22, 2002. The project financed the
acquisition of one million sets of basic learning supplies (including durable goods such as maps, rulers, sets
of geometry, pencil sharpeners and binders) for an equal number of targeted high-risk secondary education
students (representing 63.4% of the total enrollment in these two levels) of about 6,727 EGB3 and
polimodal schools in the entire province (80% of the universe of schools of these two levels). The criteria
utilized to target high-risk secondary education students included, inter-alia: (i) households with 4 or more
children; (ii) unemployed or sub-employed father and/or mother in the previous six months; (iii) significant
level of absenteeism from school during the school year; and (iv) parents with less than the equivalent of
EGB3 completed.   The acquisition was made by the schools' Cooperative Associations (Asociaciones
Cooperadoras Escolares) under shopping procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The field visits carried out
during the supervision mission of May 2002 and the ICR mission of December 2002 to several schools
confirmed that the basic learning supplies were being utilized by the students. The mission, through the
- 13 -



focus groups, attested to the high degree of receptivity and appreciation by the school stakeholders,
including parents, of this project financed activity.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
However, as shown in Annex 3, a preliminary estimation of the internal rate of return (IRR) based on
increased wages due to three years of additional schooling (completed polirnodal level) shows a rate of
12.9% for social IRR and 30.5% for private IRR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The ICR mission noted the following four significant long-term institutional development impacts from
PRODYMES III. First and foremost, the project was the main support of the PBA as the first province in
the entire country to implement the Education Reform envisaged by the 1993 Federal Law of Education.
The PBA adopted the structure recommended by the Federal Law including a basic compulsory education
cycle comprising one grade of preschool (for 5 year-old children), a six-year primary education level
(EGBI and EGB2) and a three-year lower secondary level (EGB3). In addition, the curriculum for the
three-year polimodal level (upper secondary) was completed in 2000 including the definition of the (seven)
technical professional pathways (TTPs) for all the technical and agricultural secondary schools. The
province has been a model for several other, few, provinces attempting to comply with the Federal Law,
especially with respect to the polimodal level.
Secondly, as a direct impact of having mainstreamed different project activities in the PME: (i) a new set of
construction and supervision procedures, standards and designs developed under the project are being
utilized by the PME; (ii) new schools' maintenance procedures were established under the coordination of
the Directorate General of Infrastructure of the PME including specific budgetary allocations decentralized
to the schools; (iii) there is a student's roster and a complete school mapping available for planning and
managerial purposes by the PME; (iv) the teachers' roster is to be linked to the teachers' monthly payroll
with all the cost-savings implications; (v) there is additional managerial institutional capacity in terms of
the hardware, software and training provided by the project to the PME; and (vi) the schools' Cooperative
Associations were further strengthened by carrying out the bidding procedures in the construction of civil
works, purchase of learning equipment for technical and agricultural secondary schools and acquisition of
basic learning supplies under the emergency program.
Thirdly, all of the 244 technical and agricultural schools in the province have been equipped with
up-to-date learning equipment, their staff trained and the equipment fully functional. Undoubtedly this new
installed learning capacity will have an impact in improving the relevancy and quality of the technical
education offered in these schools (subject to further evaluation).
Finally, the coordination and oversight of the activities undertaken under PROFEI will be a responsibility
of the Directorate General for Education of the PME from 2003 onwards. The school capacity developed
under PROFEI and AIJEs has generated school, supervisory and student teams which will sustain, and
further enrich, the educational reform undertaken by their respective schools. Specifically, PROFEI
- 14-



established the institutional capacity among school stakeholders to identify managerial and pedagogical
problems as well as to plan and implement more pragmatic and realistic (rather than theoretical and ideal)
solutions. AIJE has helped to more effectively integrate the schools with the surrounding community
creating a conducive environment for more active participation and cooperation among the educational
actors. In summary, the school capacity developed under PROFEI and AIJEs has generated school,
supervisory and student teams which will sustain, and further enrich the educational reform undertaken by
their respective schools.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project -accomplished the totality of its financial targets in a highly successfully fashion. It also
achieved all but two of its specific objectives - piloting a high standard curriculum and its evaluation in five
project schools, and improving the collaborative links between project schools and the private productive
sector. As explained before, the budgetary restrictions imposed by the crisis on the Government of the
PBA and the political impracticability of introducing a high-standard curriculum in five high-risk project
schools, invalidated this project objective. Additionally, the severe and persistent deterioration of the labor
market and the increased open unemployment experienced since mid-1999 by the entire country in general,
and by the PBA in particular, "de-facto" precluded pursuing the improvement of collaborative linkages with
the productive sector.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The following four factors related to the control of the national government hindered even better project
implementation performance. The first factor concerns the delay by the National Ministry of Economy in
granting the required Loan Guarantee Agreement for project effectiveness. As explained before, this delay
caused the Government of the PBA to finance with its own resources the 9th grade expansion and seek
agreement with the Bank to redirect the project proceeds to expand the polimodal level. The second factor
concerns the Decree of the National Ministry of Economy of December 3, 2001 imposing restrictions on
the withdrawals on deposits in bank accounts. This Decree, popularly known as the "corralito " (the yard),
prevented the Bank from making deposits to the Special Account, and the Borrower from making
withdrawals from it. The third factor concerns a second Decree by the National Ministry of Economy in
January 2002, converting into Argentinean pesos all public and private bank accounts regardless of the
nature of the account's denominated currency. These two Decrees significantly slowed down project
implementation during the first semester of CY02. In mid-May 2002, the National Ministry of Economy,
under its Resolution 52/02, lifted the two Decrees for all the bank accounts related to projects with
multilateral or bilateral financing. In June 2002, the project's Special Account was again reconverted in
US dollars. Finally, the last factor concerns the project's final financial accounting, which will be affected
by the different exchange rates (US dollars to Argentinean pesos) operated during this period of crisis.
These four factors required constant reprogramming of project activities and amendments to the LA.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were several factors that slightly affected project implementation. The first stems from the change of
three Governors and three Provincial Ministers of Education during the life of the project. Although
project continuity and support were maintained by each one of the three Governments, the learning curb of
the incoming administration to internalize the project, especially with respect to PROFEI and AIJEs,
slowed the project-related provincial decision making process. In addition, the incoming Governments put
pressure on the PIU requesting fast, visible results from this Bank-financed investment. This in turn
- 15 -



obliged the PIU to assign, at least until the mid-term review of December 2000, high priority of the
construction component over the pedagogical ones (PROFEI and AIJES), which explains why this
component was almost completed by 2001.
The second factor relates to the Provincial Decree 28 of January 11, 2002 which reduced staffing in the
PIU by 30% and significantly decreased the salaries of the remaining personnel. As a consequence, there
was a noteworthy attrition of skilled personnel in the PIU during the last year of project implementation.
Fortunately, the advance implementation progress shown by most of the project activities in early 2002
counterbalanced the personnel attrition impact.
In addition, project implementation readiness would have been improved by: (i) gradual implementation and
testing before expansion of PROFEI; (ii) ensuring a more effective coordination with the structure of the
PME from the outset of project implementation; (iii) ensuring more commitment on the part of teachers and
school inspectors in the early stages of PROFEI; (iv) further definition of AIJE to avoid slow start up of
this component (which represented an execution of only 7% in the second year of implementation) and the
need for several reformulations; (v) better and timely coordination among the PIU, the Provincial
Commission on Technical Education (COPRET) and the PME with respect to the targeting criteria and
technical specifications for the acquisition of the up-to-date, sophisticated learning equipment for 40
technical and agricultural secondary schools; and (vi) a more effective bridging strategy between the project
technical and agricultural schools and the productive, mainly private, sector.
The ICR mission also noted that project implementation would have greatly improved had a well-designed,
and fully operational, monitoring and evaluation system been put in place at the early stages of the project
cycle, which would have provided the flexibility to adjust course, if necessary, from the outset of project
implementation. This situation was successfully corrected by the PIU after the mid-term review mission.
A better articulation between project interventions and other inputs and activities within the polimodal
reform would have contributed to improving teacher motivation and cohesion among schools, as noted in
the cases of the technical assistance provided by PROFEI and the training courses provided by the PME.
Finally, project implementation effectiveness would have also significantly improved, had a more intensive
and comprehensive cross-fertilization program been set up by the PIU throughout the project
implementation cycle. This cross-fertilization program would have permitted dissemination of good
project-related practices within the PBA in a systematic way through training, workshops, seminars,
technical assistance, demonstration events and/or conventions. This situation was addressed in the second
semester of CYO1 with the setting of focus groups, including project school principals and vice-principals
as well as EGB3 and polimodal teachers to discuss project implementation related issues.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost was estimated at appraisal at US$170 million equivalent, of which US$119 million
were from the Bank Loan (70% of the total) and US$51 million from provincial counterpart funding (30%
of the total). At the time of the ICR mission, the total project cost had increased to US$173.2 million
equivalent (1.9% overrun), of which US$118.5 million are from the Loan (99.6% of the total Loan) and
US$54.7 million equivalent from counterpart funding (107.2% of the estimated at the time of appraisal).
The total undisbursed amount of the Loan, to be cancelled, was estimated at US$487,544 (0.4% of the
original amount contracted with the Bank).
The US$3.7 million equivalent cost overrun with respect to the total project cost estimated at appraisal was
- 16 -



caused by the counterpart funds required to meet the: (i) increase of US$5.8 million in the Civil Works
Category (first amendment to the Loan Agreement) with a pari-passu of 63-37%; and (ii) provision of
US$5 million equivalent of basic learning supplies under the framework of the emergency program (fifth
amendment to the Loan Agreement) with a pari-passu of 80-20%. Accordingly, the PBA ensured with its
own fiscal resources of US$2.3 million as counterpart funds for the civil works and US$1.4 million for the
basic learning supplies.
The financial performance of PRODYMES HI was highly successful. The total Loan disbursements of
US$118.5 million include US$117.1 million executed and documented with the Bank at the time of the ICR
mission and US$1.4 million of the Special Account committed as follows: (i) US$0.4 million to complete
the four works under execution at the time of the ICR; (ii) US$0.63 million to complete the acquisition of
the basic learning supplies; (iii) US$0.32 million to complete the provision of learning equipment to the
technical and agricultural schools; and (iv) US$0.05 million to complete payments concerning technical
assistance. The goods and services corresponding to the US$1.4 million mentioned-above were delivered
before the closing date.
According to the financial information of November 30, 2002, the financial progress by component was
reasonable and shows the balancing out of overruns and underruns over time. The expansion of access
component registered an actual total execution of US$145.8 million equivalent instead of the US$141
million estimated at appraisal (3.4% overrun). The change of the construction unit from 9th grade
classrooms to polimodal ones (mentioned in section 4.2 of the ICR) explains this slight overrun. The
quality and relevance improvement component registered an actual total execution of US$24.9 million
equivalent compared with the US$27.4 million estimated at appraisal (9.1% underrun). The delay of about
one year in starting the implementation of PROFEI, as well as the AIJEs largely explains this difference.
Finally, the project administration component, which included an important portion of technical assistance,
.registered an actual total execution of US$2.5 million equivalent against the US$1.5 million estimated at
appraisal (66.7% overrun). The extension of one year in the closing date (from December 31, 2001 to
December 31, 2002) including the cost of maintaining the project coordination unit as well as the technical
assistance required to redirect the expansion of the 9th grade to polimodal and to implement the provision
of basic learning supplies and learning equipment, basically explains this difference.
The financial achievement by category of expenditure, including actual and committed expenditures, was
the following: (i) US$87 million in civil works in constrast to the US$80 million estimated at appraisal and
included in Schedule I to the LA (the change of construction scope and targets explains this difference); (ii)
US$12.3 million in goods and equipment instead of the US$16 million estimated at appraisal (the
acquisition of less sophisticated leaming equipment to all the technical and agricultural secondary schools
mainly explains this difference); (iii) US$6.5 million in supplies instead of the US$1.7 million estimated at
appraisal (the provision of basic learning supplies under the emergency program costing about US$5
million equivalent explains this difference); (iv) US$13.2 million in consultants instead of the US$15.5
million estimated at appraisal (delays in launching PROFEI and AIJEs, and thus in utilizing the
corresponding technical assistance, mainly explain this difference); and (v) a zero balance in the
unallocated in constrast to the the US$5.8 million estimated at appraisal which were transferred to civil
works.
The financial management system put in place by the PIU for this, and other Bank-financed projects in the
province (namely PRODYMES III-A), was highly commended by the Bank's senior financial management
specialist. According to the Bank's assessment, this system displayed a high degree of effectiveness in
producing timely, reliable and relevant financial information for project-related decision making processes.
- 17 -



Audit reports for each fiscal year during the life of the project were always delivered to the Bank on time
(within the six month limit after the end of the previous fiscal year). The project was audited by a private
auditing firm satisfactory to the Bank. All the reports were unqualified (clean), indicating the auditor's
satisfaction with the financial information and the processes reviewed by them.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The mission assigned a likely sustainability ranking to the project for four reasons. First, the Education
Reform, including the new polimodal curriculum (comprising the technical professional pathways) was
completed and it is now functioning on a regular annual basis in the province. Secondly, the school and
provincial education management was strengthened by the methodologies, expertise and products developed
under the project with respect to school construction, rehabilitation and maintenance, the student's roster
and school mapping, and the teachers' roster and its linkage to the teachers' monthly payroll. All of these
activities are now part of the core activities within different bureaus of the PME. Furthermore, the PIU
coordinator has been promoted as the new Administration Undersecretary within the PME in charge of all
these activities. Thirdly, given the strong involvement of the schools' Cooperative Associations in
supporting the management of the schools, it is highly likely that the up-to-date basic learning equipment
acquired by the project for the 244 technical and agricultural school will be appropriately maintained. The
ICR mission found clear evidence of the high degree of ownership of these learning goods by their
respective school stakeholders. Finally, PROFEI and AIJEs continue as regular activities in project
schools and, PROFEI is gradually being expanded to non-project schools in the province. However, it
seems unlikely in the present financial conditions of the PBA, the AIJE experience will be expaned to other
schools.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The new polimodal curriculum is now functioning in all the polimodal schools. PROFEI, under the current
responsibility of the Directorate General for Education of the PME, is providing the oversight and technical
assistance required in the curriculum-related sustainability dimensions (PEIs, teacher training, learning
materials, team work, accountability contracts, etc.)
The construction and rehabilitation component is currently being operated by the Directorate General of
Infrastructure of the PME which also coordinates the decentralized maintenance of the school facilities.
The student's roster and school mapping is being operated by the Directorate General of Planning of the
PME. The teacher's roster and its linkage with the teachers' payroll is being operated by the Directorate
General of Administration of the PME.
The institutional sustainability of the core activities developed under PROFEI rest mainly in the hands of
school teams and the supervisory core that were provided training and technical assistance during the life of
the project. These school-teams have learned how to better interact among themselves; the pedagogical and
managerial accountability agreements are now part of the project schools' culture; the PEIs are functioning
in the project schools, and it is expected that other non-project schools will emulate the project schools to
undertake the preparation of their own PEIs. However it is too early to assess if the PBA will have the
appropriate financial resources to ensure the financial long-term sustainability to provide adequate on-site
training and technical assistance to support both the schools currently benefitting from PROFEI and the
rest of the system in the PBA. This situation is even more worrisome given the severe economic crisis of
-18-



Argentina which at the present time, is slowly beginning to show some initial signs of improving.
Finally, the ALlEs projects that were approved and implemented, by-and-large, require minimum recurrent
operational costs. Additionally, as a policy of the PME, each school nominated either a part-time or
full-time AIJEs coordinator that will remain in this capacity after project completion. This situation makes
the AIJES likely to be self-sustained, subject to some financial support of the PBA to finance the required
operational costs. Most of the resources allocated by the ALlEs sub-component were destined for the
acquisition of durable goods required by approved projects, as well as for the technical assistance required
in starting their implementation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank team assisting the Borrower in preparing the project was largely the same that prepared and
supervised the first two Bank-financed operations in the Argentinean education sector (PRODYMES I
taken to the Board in 1994 and H, taken to the Board in 1995). The Bank preparation team was highly
experienced and included the required appropriate skill-mix in all the missions from identification to
appraisal/negotiations. The Bank team went to extreme lengths to ensure appropriate articulation between
PRODYMES I and II under execution, and the design of PRODYMES m. This team also insisted on the
incorporation of the relevant lessons learned from these first two operations in the preparation process of
PRODYMES III. As a consequence, it took a record eight months from identification to negotiations under
the responsibility of one Bank task manager.
The Bank team ensured the highest professional quality in the technical assistance provided during the
preparation phase, including international renowned expertise in technical education. As a result of these
efforts, the project design was technically and institutionally appropriate. The Bank team also insisted on
carrying out a sound cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness study as well as a social assessment study.
On the Bank's perfornance shortcomings at the lending stage, the ICR mission identified four factors. As
explained in section 5.3, first the Bank team could have insisted more with the Borrower to ensure a more
effective preparation readiness, especially with respect to PROFEI and ALlEs, and ensuring a first-year
implementation and procurement plan. Secondly, the Bank team could have required to put in place a
monitoring and evaluation system at the outset of project implementation. Thirdly, as explained in section
4.2, the up-to-date, sophisticated equipment included in the design was overly ambitious, and due mostly to
the Bank team's desire to make the technical and agricultural secondary schools more relevant to labor
market needs, which resulted in: (i) a very ambitious endeavor, not totally pertinent to the physical
conditions and technical needs of the participating schools; (ii) a process not fully owned by the schools
that did not participate in the definition of the technical specifications nor in the acquisition process of the
equipment; (iii) a very complex and lengthy international bidding process; and (iv) an inequitable process.
Finally, the Bank was slow to react during the negotiations held in February 1998 to the Borrower's request
for a Provincial Loan instead of a Loan to the central Government. It took a second round of negotiations
in March 1998 to get management clearance for a Provincial Loan (the first one in the sector and in the
region).
Balancing the strong features of the Bank's technical assistance with the shortcomings discussed above
during project preparation and negotiation, the ICR mission has ranked Bank's performance as satisfactory.
-19 -



7.2 Supervision:
The Bank carried out a total of 9 supervision missions until the closure of the project, including a mid-term
review in December 2000 and an ICR mission in December 2002. A supervision mission was carried
about one every six months. Prior to each one of these supervision missions, the PIU prepared and
delivered to the Bank in a timely manner, well-documented project implementation progress reports that
resulted in valuable documentation to accomplish the mission's objectives. Only three task managers were
in charge of the entire lending operation and supervision missions, thus needed supervision continuity was
largely achieved by the Bank teams. The supervision teams were composed by a rather stable mix of
appropriate Bank staff and qualified external consultants. Bank supervision missions were instrumental in
identifying feasible solutions to address relevant project implementation issues such as: (i) assisting the PIU
in carrying out effective study tours to other countries that had successfully engaged in similar education
reforms, including a visit to Chile and to Scotland; (ii) redirecting the scope of the construction component
as a consequence of a significant delay in having the National Ministry of Economy issuing the Loan
Guarantee Agreement and the Bank declaring the Loan Agreement effective; (iii) having the PIU clarify and
fine-tune the school targeting criteria during the first year of project implementation; (iv) improving the
implementation progress of PROFEI and ALTEs after the mid-term review; (v) modifying the nature of the
provision of up-to-date learning equipment to technical and agricultural schools; (vi). launching an
emergency program for the provision of basic leaming supplies to high-risk targeted secondary education
students; (vii) increasing the pari-passu in some categories of expenditure to respond to the severe financial
situation of the PBA; (viii) insisting in the constant updating of the agreed impact and project performance
indicators; and (ix) requesting solid justification for project amendments and the extension of the Loan
closing date. The Bank team demonstrated flexibility and responsiveness to the Borrower's needs,
especially during the difficult economic and financial context experienced by the project since mid-1999.
The ICR mission underlines the key role played by the Bank team during the mid-term review of December
2000 in having the Borrower effectively address crucial implementation issues and redirect project
implementation towards success.
As shown in Annex, 4 most of the supervision missions rated the implementation progress and achievement
of developmental objectives as satisfactory, and in few occasions, as highly satisfactory. Each supervision
mission ended with a well-documented Aide Memoire (AM) including progress made, issues to be
addressed, recommendations and agreed solutions. Each AM, thoroughly discussed and signed, was
subsequently used as a monitoring and follow up mechanism. Consistently, findings were summarized and
communicated to the Borrower through a management letter.
On the downside, and as mentioned in other parts of this document, the ICR mission noted that the Bank's
early insistence on very sophisticated, up-to-date learning equipment for a few technical and agricultural
secondary schools, resulted in a lengthy and complex procurement process and a need to readdress this
project sub-component in 2001 and to ensure also improved equity. Fortunately this situation was
corrected in terms of a more appropriate fit of leaming equipment with the technical plans of each
participating technical and agricultural secondary school.
Balancing the above, the ICR rated Bank supervision as highly satisfactory, because the initial design and
implementation shortcomings were satisfactorily identified and addressed by the different Bank supervision
missions.
-20 -



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Given the limitations of the current ICR format which do not allow for more options in the ranking system,
the ICR mission is of the opinion that the overall Bank performance at the lending stage ranges from
satisfactory (for the lending phase) to highly satisfactory (for the supervision phase). Averaging these two
performance ranking, the ICR mission assigns a satisfactory overall Bank performance.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
PRODYMES III was the Bank's third sector operation in Argentina.' The previous experience acquired in
the preparation and implementation of PRODYMES I and II became a rich source of lessons learned for
the Borrower that were included in a more effective preparation and implementation processes of
PRODYMES m, and subsequently, of Ill-A. In effect, as mentioned before, the approximately 8 months
that elapsed between the identification mission and the negotiations, was about one fourth the time it took to
prepare/negotiate PRODYMES I, and about half that of PRODYMES II. This significant improvement
resulted from greater clarity and operational definition regarding the content and strategy of the education
reform. This clarity of roles and early stakeholder involvement at all levels of project preparation, and later
project implementation, significantly reduced resistance to the introduction of the education reforrn, in
particular the polimodal level.
The negotiations held in February 1998 were affected by a refusal of the National Ministry of Economy to
assume direct responsibility in this envisaged operation. As a result of this impasse, the PBA requested to
assume the Loan as the Borrower. Bank management was slow in analyzing this request based on the
PBA's financial capacity to assume the proposed Loan. The successful completion of negotiations was
delayed until March 1998 after Bank management provided its clearance for a Provincial Loan (the first
one in the sector and in the region).
The preparation process also benefited from having a stand-alone provincial operation carried out under the
conduction of a very well-organized, highly qualified and fully staffed technical counterpart in the PBA.
The senior layer of technical personnel of the PRODYMES III PIU was, by and large, the same that
participated in the preparation and implementation of the PBA's share of PRODYMES I and II. In this
latter Bank-financed investment, the PBA participated with 200 out of the 620 PRODYMES II project
schools. Thus, there was ample familiarity by the PIU regarding Bank operations, procedures and
expectations. The technical continuity of the teams and their leadership provided a conducive learning
environment that allowed for project design fine-tuning as the preparation progressed. The preparation also
benefitted from a good quality cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness' study as well as a sound social
assessment.
On the downside, and as mentioned elsewhere in this report, the Borrower could have improved the
preparation readiness, especially with respect of PROFEI and AITES that produced some delays during the
early stages of project execution. Implementation readiness could have also improved had the Borrower
prepared a first-year implementation and procurement plan, especially in order to speed up the acquisition
of learning equipment for the 40 technical and agricultural secondary schools.
Balancing the above, the ICR mission has ranked the Borrower's performance at the lending stage as
satisfactory.
-21 -



7.5 Government implementation performance:
As mentioned before, it took about a year for the PME to internalize, and then provide the required support
for the implementation of PROFEI and AIJEs. In addition, each incoming Government of the PBA
expressed political desires to show fast and visible results of the Bank-financed investment. , This in turn
resulted in the PIUJ assigning priority to the completion of the construction component over PROFEI and
AIJES, which lagged behind until about the mid-term review mission of December 2000. Due to the
Bank's insistence in the various supervision missions, this situation was corrected by the PIU after the
mid-term review, when a more balance implementation progress among the remaining components was
successfully achieved.
On the more positive side, the PME authorities were consistently fast in reacting positively to the mission's
recommendations that directly concerned them. Accordingly, once a need for an amendment was discussed
and recommended during a mission, the PME educational authorities promptly made the request to the
Bank and quickly countersigned the amendment, once approved by the Bank. This contrasted favorably
with the time it usually takes the National Government to countersign any amendment concerning
Bank-financed loans to the central Government. Likewise, the PBA authorities provided their support for
the launching of the emergency program to provide learning supplies almost immediately following the
corresponding Loan Agreement amendment approved by the Bank, contrasting very favorably with the
almost seven month delay it took for the National Ministry of Education to launch a similar program in the
entire country (except the PBA) under PRODYMES II.
Finally, the PBA provided a conducive environment for the sustainability of project activities (as described
in chapter 6 of this report) on or about project closing. For all of the above, the ICR mission ranked the
PBA government implementation performance as satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The PIU was designed in such a way that, after overcoming some initial hurdles, constant operational
articulation was assured (throughout the life of the project) between each project component and their
corresponding peer unit in the PME.
The PIU had only one coordinator and one management team in charge of the different components and the
support activities (financial management, procurement, legal) throughout the entire project preparation and
implementation cycle. This fortunate situation ensured needed continuity in the management and operation
of this project as well as effective and fluid coordination with the Bank. The leadership and effectiveness
displayed by the coordinator of the PIUJ, the high professional standards of his deputies conforming the
project's management team, the appropriate skill-mix of the entire PIU cadre including support staff, and its
effective operational linkage with the mainstream bureaus of the PME were key in ensuring a highly
successful project implementation.
Despite the political pressure to assign a higher priority to the construction component than to the
pedagogical ones during the first two years of project implementation, the PIU, on advice from the Bank,
effectively corrected course and ensured a satisfactory completion of the other components. This is a
positive sign of a flexible organization that learns and improves its operation as time progresses. The PIU
was a model for its effective financial management system put in place, and the Bank's office in Buenos'
Aires commended this effort in writing. The PIJ ensured that audit reports for each fiscal year during the
life of the project were delivered to the Bank on timie, which is a sharp contrast to the delay it took the
-22 -



National Government to deliver the audit reports for PRODYMES I and II to the Bank every year.
The project was subject to three in-depth random post procurement reviews in April 2000, during the
mid-term review of December 2000 and in May 2002. The sample of the last procurement review included
27 contracts of goods and services acquired by the project in the period of the previous 16 months (January
1, 2001 to April 30, 2002). This random sample included: (i) 5 construction contracts (representing 11%
of the total construction contracts in that period) amounting to an aggregate value of AR$828,692 from a
total contracted of AR$1,482,311 (60%); (ii) 8 contracts for the acquisition of 75 goods (representing
10.7% of the total goods contracts in that period) amounting to an aggregate value of AR$405,457 from a
total contracted of AR$5,749,972 (7%/O); and (iii) 14 consulting contracts (representing 3% of the total
consulting contracts in that period) amounting to an aggregate value of AR$411,480 from a total
contracted of AR$6,015,696 (6.8%). The post review concluded that the Borrower followed the Bank
guidelines and procedures. These findings are consistent with earlier in-depth random post procurement
reviews.
On the downside, and as mentioned before, at the outset of project implementation the PIJ lacked: (i) a set
of clear school targeting criteria agreed with the Bank; (ii) a monitoring and evaluation system to correct
course, if necessary; and (iii) a more intensive and comprehensive cross-fertilization strategy to disseminate
good provincial project-related practices through training, workshops, seminars, technical assistance,
demonstration events and/or conventions. The targeting criteria were clarified and agreed with the Bank
during the first year of implementation after effectiveness, while the latter two situations were satisfactorily
corrected in the second semester of CYO1.
On balance, as the P1U demonstrated how it. became an effective learning organization ensuring the
satisfactory completion of almost all physical, and all the financial targets, the ICR ranked the PIU1
performance as highly satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's project implementation performance was consistently even-ranging from satisfactory to
highly satisfactory, as attested by the PSRs shown in Annex 4. With the exception of two project
objectives that could not be achieved due to external constraints (amply explained in section 4.2 of this
report), the Borrower satisfactorily achieved the remaining project objectives as well as the financial
targets. Accordingly, the ICR ranks the overall Borrower performance as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The following eleven relevant factors conditioned project implementation and thus become important
lessons learned for future sector investments in Argentina and elsewhere:
(a)    Political will and appropriate legal framework to facilitate project implementation and
success. Despite three changes of provincial Governors and Ministers of Education, the provincial political
and educational authorities of the PBA provided consistent support throughout the entire project cycle to
leading to a successful implementation of the Education Reform in the province. In addition, the project
design and implementation benefitted from an appropriate legal framework conducive to accomplishing the
envisaged change and enabling effective project implementation.
(b)    Gradual implementation of the new curriculum. The implementation of the Education Reform
in the PBA was gradual and progressive. Based on a school-by-school diagnosis, PROFEI, aligned with
-23-



the ongoing reform, ensured a conducive environment for the implementation of the expected curricular
changes in participating schools.
(c)    Sufficient implementation capacity to handle unexpected delays.  The efficient project
management and implementation capacity of the PIU was a key factor in achieving project targets and
proposing the appropriate remedies when project activities needed to be reprogrammed due to external
financial constraints. Additionally, the PIU ensured, albeit with some initial delay, a close link of all project
components and sub-components with the corresponding units within the PME during the life of the project.
This initial pairing facilitated the technical and organizational mainstreaming of project activities at project
completion.
(d)    Appropriate targeting to ensure reaching the intended population. Although this was not in
place at the outset of project implementation, the project's design and implementation strategy included
clear targeting criteria to focus project activities in those high-risk students and schools to improve the
equity of the secondary education system in then PBA. Targeting criteria were based on educational and
poverty-risk factors such as repetition and drop out rates, learning achievements, and family and school
location in rural and urban areas with unsatisfied basic needs.
(e) . Pedagogical practices assessment system to improve pedagogical-related interventions.
PROFEI developed an in-situ classroom pedagogical assessment system that provided school-based
information concerning the implementation of the educational reform and the new polimodal curriculum in
all project- and some non-project schools. This relevant and timely feedback, in turn provided the basis for
fine-tuning the project financed pedagogical interventions.
(f)    Thorough institutional diagnosis are necessary for effective interventions. PROFEI's strategies
and interventions were based on a solid school-based diagnosis made by the same school stakeholders,
which in turn permitted; (i) school stakeholders to propose and put in practice their own solutions to
address, through their PEIs, the diagnosed relevant issues; (ii) a clear definition of roles and responsibilities
to implement the proposed solutions; (iii) the establishment of pedagogical and institutional agreements as a
way to ensure stakeholder accountability; (iv) effective school-team work; and (iv) the provision of timely
and consistent on-site technical support and assorted written support material.
(g)    Social participation to facilitate project implementation. Social participation, mainly through
the school's Cooperative Associations, was key for the successful, including: (i) provision of learning
supplies to high-risk secondary students; (ii) provision of up-to-date, basic learning equipment to technical
and agricultural secondary schools; and (iii) completion of the entire construction and rehabilitation
component. Social participation of the school community was also key in the successful implementation of
approved ALlEs. In addition, social participation greatly increases ownership and motivation, ensures the
significance of the activities, and improves the efficiency and accountability of the investments.
(h)    A more thorough initial analysis of the pertinence of the learning equipment is necessary. The
original strategy adopted by the project aimed at equipping about 16% of the technical and agricultural
secondary schools in the PBA with "sophisticated" up-to-date learning equipment increased inequity.
Besides, the learning equipment initially acquired by the project was not necessarily akin to the technical
pedagogical plan and physical conditions of the recipient schools. Furthermore, the technical specifications
for the acquisition of this learning equipment was prepared without the participation of the recipient
schools, thus ownership by the recipient schools was weakened. This situation was corrected during
implementation throughout a more rigorous analysis of the technical and agriculture schools needs and
-24-



allowing the school's Cooperative Associations participate in the procurement process, satisfactory to the
Bank.
(i)    Ensure a first-year implementation and procurement plan to avoid unnecessary project
execution delays. Lack of these plans at the outset of project implementation, especially with respect of
PROFEI and AIJES and the international bidding procedure for the acquisition of learning equipment to
technical and agricultural schools, produced between a 12 to 18 months delay in getting these project
activities off the ground.
(j)    Disseminate good project practices to ensure appropriate cross-fertilization.  Project
implementation effectiveness would have also significantly improved if a more intensive and comprehensive
cross-fertilization strategy had been put in place by the P1U throughout the project implementation cycle.
This strategy would have permitted the dissemination of good project-related practices within the PBA in a
systematic way through training, workshops, seminars, technical assistance, demonstration events and/or
conventions. This situation was partially corrected in the second semester of CYO1 with the establishment
of focus groups, including project school principals and vice-principals as well as EGB3 and polimodal.
teachers to discuss project implementation related issues.
(k)    Tracer studies and/or reverse tracer studies are recommended instruments to assess the impact
of the formal technical-professional education system on the formal and non-formal labor markets with
respect to the employability and working performance of their graduates. These instruments become even
more useful in a context of continuous deteriorating economic and financial conditions, as the one
experienced by Argentina since mid-1999.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The execution of activities leading to an integrated and comprehensive implementation of the education
reform in the Province of Buenos Aires greatly benefitted children and youth, especially those belonging to
socially unfavorable milieus, and increased retention rates. In this way, the project supported the national
and provincial social investment policies intended to address relevant education sector issues by financing
such undertakings in the PBA and ensuring the continuity of the institutional strengthening activities in both
education and provincial administration related areas.
Despite the financial and economic crisis faced by the province, the government of the PBA ensured the
achievement of the project's goals with the corresponding transference of provincial counterpart funds.
All reform requires a clear political decision on the part of provincial authorities in order to achieve an
adequate implementation. The consistent commitment on the part of the PBA, had exceptional results for
the adequate development of the education reform process. The participation of the different stakeholders
and different levels of hierarchy was absolutely essential in ensuring the implementation of education
related policy decisions. The project's participation design including representatives of the community and
parents associations, resulted in more public control of the project costs and appropriate direction of the
investments, and effectively contributed to the achievement of the expected goals set back in 1997.
Accordingly, the management of some project interventions by the school cooperatives made possible direct
and efficient oversight of project investments from both a financial and social point of view.
This participation process was consistently fine tuned during the implementation of PRODYMES III,
- 25 -



attaining: (i) success in achieving the totality of the construction targets; (ii) a high level of relevance of the
works undertaken; (iii) significant commitment from the education community; (iv) better competition
among potential bidders; (v) transparency in the bidding processes; (vi) greater quality in the works; and
(vii) lower unit construction.
From an educational perspective, PRODYMES HI improved education quality and the articulation of
school with the working world. It also provided the opportunity for intensive participation on the part of
different educational stakeholders during the implementation process.
With respect to the provision of technological equipment, debate was generated on the curriculum and led
to decisions on the most appropriate equipment according to the schools' academic plans. In this way, the
school stakeholders participated directly in the acquisition process, ensuring for the total universe of
technical and agriculture schools, relevant didactic materials.
Under the framework of the Emergency Plan, a targeted program for the provision of durable school
supplies was implemented in the PBA to help students from highly unfavorable educational and social
backgrounds. This program benefitted about one million students in 2002 and is expected to assist another
million in 2003.
In summary, given the results mentioned above, repeating investments in this program is justified, given the
impact on the social beneficiaries. However, a future investment along the lines of PRODYMES HI,
necessarily calls for a change of guidelines and procedures to ensure a better linkage with the current legal,
political and social realities of the country in general, and the PBA in particular.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional 1nTormunaidon
Not applicable.
-26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
v - IndlcatorlMatrtx *       -       Projected In last PSR     -          ActuallLatest Estimate
Enrollment in 9th grade of EGB3 In project  From 216,000 to 240,000       244,214
schools.
Transibon rate from EGB3 to the Polymodal From 88% to 98%                 98.1 % In project schools against 94.4% In
leveL,                                                                    non-project oontrol group schools and 97.1%
in the enffre province
Completion rate of Polymodal in partcipatng From 14% to 50%                53.7% in project schools against 49% in
schools.                                                                   non-project control group schools and 50.2%
In the entre province
Achievement test scores in Spanish and  Language from 63.6% in 1998 to 68% in  According to the last data available (2000),
Mathemafics in Polymodal partiapating  2002, while in Math from 64.7% to 68% in the Language 56.9% in project schools against
schools measured in the last grade of this  same period                    53.5% in non-project control group schools
level,                                                                    and 55.2% In the entire province.
Math 59.7% in project schools against 58.2%
in non-project control group schools and
58.9% In the entre province.
Repetition rate in Potymnodal participabng  From 15.6% to 7%               6.6% In project schoois as compared from
schools.                                                                   15.6% to 13.2% in non-project control group
schools and 13% in the enbre province.
Improve the skills of secondary graduates in 30% reducton of tme necessary for  No tracer study was carried out The
order to fadlitate entrance in the labor market graduates of Polymodal participating schools consistent economic and finandal
to enter the labor market (a study Wil  deteriorating situaton In Argentna made this
determine the baseline of this Indicator).  target difficult to achieve.
The second column indicates the targets estimated at appraisal; and in the last column are the projected
ones
from the last PSR (actuals).
Output Indicators:
IndlcatoriMatrix  .  F                      n    P                      ActuaLatProJscted lnlastS  ,  Ist Eitiate E
New 9th grade classrooms to accommodate  1,336 new 9th grade classrooms.   The project modified construction scope from
the demand for EGB3 created by the                                         9th grade classrooms to polimodal schools.
extension of mandatory education.                                          Under this new scope, the project achieved
83 new polimodal schools equivalent to 669
classrooms.
Increased proportion of EGB schools in  1,775 rehabilitated schools.       The project modified construction scope from
satisfactory physical condition.                                           9th grade classrooms to polimodal schools.
Under this new scope, the project
rehabirtated 21 polimodal schools equivalent
to 107 dassrooms.
Supervisors that are promoters of the  100% of the provincial supervisors tralned to 268 Inspectors (100%) of the provincial
education transformation.            provide guidance, monitoring and supervision supervisors were trained under PROFEI.
during the development and implementation
of school-based plans (PEI).
Improved school management           Provision of training and technical assistance 198 school prindpals and 198
on school management to 80% of school  vice-principals, equivalent to 1 00% of the
prindpals and vice-prncipals on: school  universe of project schools were trained
management, administraton and pedagogical under PROFEI.
supervision.
-27 -



Development and implementaton of     100% of PEIs containing dear school  All the 198 project schools and an additional
school-based plans (PEI)            objectives and strategy to achieve them.  705 non-project schools elaborated PEls
containing dear school objectives and
strategy to achieve them.
Improved technical education.       40 technical 'basic-modules of equipment  244 basic technical equipment installed and
installed and functioning.          functioning in an equal number of technical
and agricultural secondary schools.
267 school technical teams equivalent to
350 technical school teachers trained in the  1,600 teachers of all the technical and
utilization of the equipment and technology  agricultural secondary schools were trained
subject content                     In the utilation of the equipment and
technology subject content.
The severe finandal and economic crisis
Schools actively implementing a plan to  present In Argentina since mid-1 999, and the
increase collaboration with the labor market, consistent deterioratbon of the labor market in
Induding: following-up graduates insertion In the PBA, had a negative impact in achieving
the labor market, establishing lntemships,  this expected output. Only 50% of the
getfing donabons from firms and selling  technical and agricultural secondary schools
goods and/or services to firms.     registered some linkages with the labor
market
Implementation of school-based      25% of students parUdpating in AIJEs.  About 30% of students of the project schools
extracurricular acives program.                                          parUcipated in AIJEs.
50% of extracurricular programs that foster  About 50% of the 217 AIJEs that were
collaboration between sdcool and the  approved and Implemented, fostered
community.                           significant collaboration between school and
the community.
End of project
-28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-                    x     ' _ ~_' . /  1 s _ '  '. - r  r      ,Appraisal . ActuallLatest  Percentage of.
-   I    G     s ;'-'=   |          1!,'Estirnate-,4i '  Estim'ate'  Appraisal,,
Component, -,'i               US$'million  'US$V  iiliidn':  ___,,_____
Expansion of access                               132.00         145.70          10.38
Quality and relevance im[provement                 26.60          25.10          -5.26
Project administration                              1.40           2.40          71.43
Total Baseline Cost                                160.00         173.20
Physical Contingencies                             8.00
Price Contingencies                                2.00
Total Project Costs           170.00         173.20
Total Financing Required            170.00         173.20
Section 5.4 amply explains the difference between the total project cost estimated at appraisal and the
actual one.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
ExpnditureCategoryC -   Procurement Method
Epniue rICB  - NCB-      Other         N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         40.30        91.00         0.00        131.30
(0.00)       (25.80)      (58.20)      (0.00)       (84.00)
2. Goods                     14.20        3.80          0.00         0.00        18.00
(12.90)       (3.40)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (16.30)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         17.00         0.00        17.00
Technical assistance        (0.00)        (0.00)      (17.00)       (0.00)      (17.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          2.90         0.00         2.90
Materials and supplies      (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.70)       (0.00)      (1.70)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.80         0.80
Recurrent costs             (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     14.20        44.10        110.90        0.80        170.00
(12.90)      (29.20)       (76.90)      (0.00)      (119.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditur Category  CProcurement Method
Ep,ICB-.     NCB         Other        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         87.40        49.90        0.00        137.30
(0.00)       (55.10)     (31.40)       (0.00)      (86.50)
2. Goods                     3.50         0.00         10.20        0.00        13.70
(3.50)       (0.00)       (8.40)       (0.00)      (1 1.90)
- 29 -



3. Services                     0.00           0.00          13.10         0.00         13.10
Technical assistance           (0.00)         (0.00)        (13.10)       (0.00)        (13.10)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          7.50          0.00          7.50
Materials and supplies         (0.00)         (0.00)        (5.60)        (0.00)        (5.60)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00          0.80          0.80
Recurrent costs                (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        3.50          87.40          80.70         0.80         172.40
(3.50)        (55.10)       (58.50)        (0.00)       (117.10)
The totals of US$172.40 million (US$117.10 million) reflect the amounts at the time of the ICR mission and do
not include the US$1.4 million of the Loan and corresponding counterpart funds already committed at that time (as
explained in Section 5.4).
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
z                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appreasal
Component             i.ppraissl Estimate          AchaI/Latest Estimatee
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Expansion of access      92.80     48.30              93.80      52.00             101.1  107.7
Quality and relevance    24.70     2.70                22.30     2.60              90.3    96.3
improvement
Project administration   1.50      0.00                2.40      0.10              160.0   0.0
Total                   119.00     51.00              118.50     54.70              99.6  107.3
-30 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The project benefits may be estimated as a function of the: (i) increased enrollment in EGB3 and polimodal;
(ii) improved completion rates at the polimodal level; (iii) decreased repetition rates; and (iv) enhanced
learning achievements in these two levels of education. As described in Section 4, these project
performance indicators were significantly more prominent in project schools than in a control group of 50
non-project schools with similar socio-economic characteristics and with the rest of the schools in the
province. Since project schools were selected according to a poverty criteria (see Section 8(d)), the benefits
impacted high-risk, low-income students.
According to the Argentinean October 2002 Household Survey, wages increase as a function of the
number of years of schooling. In fact, the average wage for an individual in the 19-24 age-group that has
completed the polimodal level (equivalent to 12 grades of education) in Argentina is about 62% more than
an individual with incomplete secondary education (more than the equivalent of 6 grades of education but
less than 12).
Increase   Increase
Educational level                                                  1997/2001 1997/2001
in the PBA         1997      1998     1999     2000     2001    (students)    (%)
9th grade EGB III
Public schools            159,620  213,583  173,400   173,959  176,071   16,451      10.3%
Total (public and private)  222,182  280,717  234,267  239,227  244,214  22,032      9.9%
1st grade of polimodal (a)
Public schools            105,141  118,673  171,112   161,895  163,953   58,812     55.9%
Total (public and private)  161,369  172,742  239,112  233,263  236,064  74,695      46.3%
2nd. grade of polimodal (b)
Public schools            86,014   90,334    96,059   136,098  126,259   40,245     46.8%
Total (pubhc andprivate)  135,512  140,664  142,851   201,746  188,511   52,999      39.1%
3th grade of polimodal (c)
Public schools            82,221   87,758    91,661   106,020  108,093   25,872      31.5%
Total (public and private)  130,630  135,895  138,751  154,776  166,490  35,860      21.9%
Total Polimodal
Public schools            273,376  296,765  358,832   404,013  393,305   124,929     45.7%
Total (public and private)  427,511  449,301  520,714  589,785  591,065  163,554     38.3%
(a) The values of 1997 correspond to the 2nd grade of the old secondary cumcula
(b) The values of 1998 y 1999 correspond to the 3rd grade of the old secondary curricula
(c) The values of 1997, 1998 and 1999 correspond to the 4th grade of the old secondary cumcula
As shown in the table above, the construction investments under the project contributed to enrollment in
polimodal public schools by increasing it by 45.7% during the life of the project in all public schools
(period 1997-2001), that is, about 125,000 students. Including the private schools, this increase amounted
to about 163,500 students, or 38.3% in the same period. A preliminary estimation of the internal rate of
- 31 -



return (IRR) based on increased wages due to three years of additional schooling (completed polimodal
level) shows a rate of 12.9% for social IRR and 30.5% for private IRR
There are other extemalities associated with the positive effects of having a larger population with
completed polimodal in terms of enhanced participation in civil society and democratic processes as well as
decreased delinquency, whose benefits in quantitative terms are difficult to estimate. In addition, it has
been proven in OECD countries (Literacy in the Information Age, OECD 2000 for IALS Scores. Hall and
Jones, 1997) that the productive output per worker increases as a function of the level of education and
leaming achievement.
As shown in the table below, the project averaged a unit construction cost of about US$532 per square
meter, 13% lower to the US$600 estimated at appraisal which reflected market prices and those achieved
by other investments, namely the Government-financed Plan Social Educativo and the Inter-American
Development Bank-financed PRISE project targeted to EGB1 and EGB2 schools.
Average
Source            1998       1999/2001
Market (*)
Household review        620          601
Clarin Supplement       720          698
Plan Social Educativo      600          582
PRODYMES HlI               567          523
(*) Adjusted based on the Construction Index
The project financed the construction of 83 new polimodal schools and rehabilitated another another 20
schools. As shown in the table below, this construction effort amounts to 175,674 square metters,
equivalent to 783 classrooms. Assuming a ratio of 7 square meters per polimodal student, and on the
average, 32 students per classroom, the project provided additional physical space for about 25,000
polimodal students per shift, or 50, 000 in two shifts. This construction effort covered about one third of
the polimodal construction needs of the PBA.
Square
Type of construction  Amount      meters  Classrooms Additional students per shift
New schools                 83       154,814     669             22,116
Rehabilitated schools       21       20,860      107              2,860
Total                       104      175,674     776             24,976
-32 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Inmplementation Development
MontWYear     Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
08/1997                     6   One education economist, one
education specialist, one
technical education specialist,
one social. sector development
specialist, one procurement
specialist and a project assistant
10/1997                     6   One education economist, one
education specialist, one
technical education specialist,
one social sector development
specialist, one procurement
specialist and a project assistant
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/1997                     7   One education economist,
one technical education
specialist, one architect, one
social sector development
specialist, one procurement
specialist, one costing
specialist and a project
assistant
2/1998                      7    One education economist and
task team leader, one lawyer, one
financial management specialist,
one disbursement officer, one
procurement officer, one social
sector development specialist and
one team assistant
Supervision
10/26/1998                  6   Two education economists, one      S             S
education specialist, one
technical education specialist,
one social sector development
specialist and one program
assistant
03/15/1999                   5   Two education specialist, one     S             S
technical education specialist,
one social sector development
specialist and one team assistant
- 33 -



09/03/1999                  4   Two education specialists, one     S            S
economist and one social sector
development specialist.
04/03/2000                  8   One education specialist, one      S             S
technical education specialist,
one project implementation
specialist, one social sector
development specialist, one
school management specialist,
one procurement officer, one
financial management specialist
and one operations assistant.
12/04/2000                  5   One education economist, one       S            HS
social sector development
specialist, one school
administration consultant, one
procurement specialist, and one
financial management specialist.
08/13/2001                  3   Two education specialists and     HS             S
one project implementation
specialist
12/10/2001                  1   One education specialist           S             S
05/31/2002                  4   Two education specialists, one     S             S
project implementation specialist
and one procurement specialist
ICR
12/13/2002                  6    Two education specialists,       HS            HS
one project implementation
specialist, one architect, one
financial management
specialist, and one
procurement specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                             280.44
Supervision                                                       258.85
ICR                                                                23.80
Total                                                             563.09
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
rI Macro policies                     O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
L Sector Policies                     *H   OSUOM      ON   O NA
O Physical                            O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
LI Financial                          O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
LI Institutional Development          O H  O SU O M   O N 0 NA
LI Environmental                      O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction             O H  *SUOM      O N O NA
LI Gender                       O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
El Private sector development         0 H O SU O M    0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management            0 H  0 SU O M   0 N 0 NA
LiOther (Please specify)              OH   OSUOM      ON   * NA
- 35-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower NPrforunance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                               Rating
O Lending                                         OHS OS       OU    OHU
L Supervision                                     O HS OS      OU    OHU
L Overall                                         OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
O Preparation                                     OHS OS       O U   0 HU
O Government implementation performance           O HS OS      O U   0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance              O HS OS      O U   0 HU
LI Overall                                        OHS OS       OU    O HU
-36-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Bank preparation documents
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), Document 16505-AR, Preliminary Draft of May 15, 1997 and
Final Version of March 17, 1998, The World Bank.
Identification Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, Back-to-Office Report. The World Bank.
August, 1997.
Project Concept Document. The World Bank. September, 1997.
Preparation Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
Bank. October, 1997.
Pre-appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World
Bank. December, 1997.
Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report No. 17498. The World Bank. March 12, 1998.
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. The World Bank. February 25, 1998.
Supplemental Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. The World Bank. March 11, 1998.
Bank project implementation documents
Loan Agreement 4313-AR. The World Bank. November 16, 1998.
Amendments to the Loan Agreements including Memorandum to the Country Director. First
amendment of June 5, 2000. Second amendment of January 25, 2001. Third amendment of June 6,
2001. Fourth amendment of September 26, 2001. Fifth amendment of February 22, 2002. Sixth
amendrnent of June 11, 2002.
Statement of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Management Letters and
Project Status Reports of all the Supervision Missions. The World Bank. October 1998-December
2002.
Borrower project implementation documents
Informes de Avance del PRODYMES II. Project Implementation Unit. October 1998-December
2002.
Memoria del Proyecto PRODYMES III. 1998-2002. Project Implementation Unit. March 2002.
- 37 -



- 38 -






cpc4i N-. :        25549
Type:     C



