Page  1
September 26, 2001
Mr. José Octavio Bordón
General Director of Education and Culture
La Plata, Provincia de Buenos Aires
Argentina
Re:
Loan No. 4313-AR (Third Secondary Education Project)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the Argentine Republic (the Borrower) dated November 
16, 1998 (the Loan Agreement), with regard to the above-captioned Loan.  
With reference to your request dated August 17, 2001 and our discussions during 
the past months in respect of changes required to adjust the Loan Agreement to the 
circumstances now prevailing and the lessons learned in the carrying out of the 
Project, we are pleased to propose the following amendments to the Loan Agreement: 
1.
Section 2.03 is hereby amended in its entirely to read as follows:
"The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of 
such later date."
2.
Section I, Part C.2 of Schedule 4 of the loan Agreement is hereby amended to 
read as follows:
"Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $8,900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines."
Please confirm your agreement of the foregoing by signing and dating this letter 
in the space provided below. This amendment letter may be executed in two 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original. Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us. The provisions of this amendment Letter will 
become effective as of the date first above written, once the Bank has received one 
executed original of this amendment letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna L. Alexander
Director, Country Management Unit
for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ José Octavio Bordón
Page  2
General Director of Education and Culture 
Buenos Aires Province, Argentina
Date: October 3, 2001
