                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 30382-RO

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
         (CPL-39360 TF-22907 CPL-3936D CPL-3936E CPL-3936F CPL-3936G CPL-3936H)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$76.5 MILLION

                       TO ROMANIAN ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY (RENEL)

                                               ROMANIA

                                                 FOR A

             POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT




                                            January 19, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective November 15, 2004)

                   Currency Unit = Lei
                        1000 Lei = US$ 0.03
                          US$ 1 = 33,540 Lei

                         FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1     December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANRE         -      Romanian Energy Regulatory Agency
CEM          -      Country Economic Memorandum
CONEL        -      National Electric Company
EBRD         -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECSEE        -      Energy Community of South East Europe
EIB          -      European Investment Bank
EU           -      European Union
GoR          -      Government of Romania
IBRD         -      International Bank for Reconstruction & Development
OPCOM        -      Romanian Electricity Market Operator
PSRMP        -      Power Sector Rehabilitation & Modernization Project
QAG          -      Quality Assuarance Group
RENEL-       Romanian Electricity Authority
SAR          -      Staff Appraisal Report
SoE          -      State Owned Enterprises
TPP          -      Thermal Power Plant
USAID        -      United States Agency for International Development




                  Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
               Country Director      Anand Seth
                Sector Manager       Henk Busz
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Varadarajan Atur

                                          ROMANIA
     POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25

Project ID: P008794                                                  Project Name: POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION
                                                                     & MODERNIZATION
Team Leader: Varadarajan Atur                                        TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 19, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: POWER SECTOR REHABILITATION &                            L/C/TF Number: CPL-39360; TF-22907;
                            MODERNIZATION                                                            CPL-3936D; CPL-3936E;
                                                                                                     CPL-3936F; CPL-3936G;
                                                                                                     CPL-3936H
   Country/Department: ROMANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Power (100%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/24/1992                                     Effective:                           01/24/1996
     Appraisal: 07/28/1994                                         MTR:
      Approval: 08/29/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2000                 08/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          RENEL/RENEL
                      Other Partners:      EBRD, EIB, USAID, EU-PHARE

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Rachel Lomax
Sector Manager:                 Henk Busz                                      Ricardo Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:             Varadarajan Atur                               Sam O'Brien-Kumi
ICR Primary Author:             Varadarajan Atur; Elliott
                                Hurwitz


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

Introduction

The Power Sector Rehabilitation and Modernization Project (PSRMP) was intended to assist Romania in
its transition to a market economy. Under central planning the power sector played an important
quasi-fiscal role, imposing a burden on government finances by sustaining unviable firms and providing an
implicit subsidy to consumers.

In 1995, Romania's power sector comprised of the one integrated state-owned utility ­ the Romanian
Electricity Authority (RENEL) ­ that was responsible for production, transmission and distribution of
electricity, as well as production and bulk transmission of thermal energy. RENEL's operations and
finances suffered from the continuing accumulation of inter-enterprise arrears in the still largely
state-owned economy, from the high staff costs due to over employment, and from unbalanced &
inadequate tariffs on an already reduced demand for electricity. Furthermore, the operating efficiency of
the aging thermal power plants (TPP) had deteriorated considerably and RENEL was barely able to obtain
6000 MW of dependable continuous power during winter (compared to 8600 MW of peak winter demand)
from its installed capacity of 14,600 MW in TPPs.

In order to address these issues, the Government of Romania's strategy included several measures. The
short to medium term measures aimed at improving quality and reliability of energy supply and reducing
sector's pollution impact on the environment through modernization of TPPs; whereas the long term
measures would bring about the restructuring of the sector, downsize enterprises and operations, and
introduce competition with appropriate legal and regulatory systems to enhance the participation of
independent operators, both public and private in the sector.

The PSRMP was designed to support the Government's strategy with the participation of partner
institutions. In addition to financing rehabilitation of about 1450 MW of TPP capacity, significant
technical assistance was included to lay the foundation for the future development of the sector. The
planned IBRD funding of US$110 million was part of an overall financing plan of US$363.9, including
planned contributions from RENEL (US$125 million), EBRD (Euro 54.4 million), EIB (Euro 27 million),
EU-PHARE (US$3.6 million), and USAID (US$2.9 million). Actual disbursements are summarized in
section 5.4.

The project was implemented during an extended period of about eight years spanning three governments,
seven changes in top management of RENEL and its successor companies, slower-than- expected growth
and turnaround of the economy, and harsher impacts of sector restructuring than had been anticipated. The
project's objectives were substantially achieved and the sector entities and the Government seem to be well
placed to deal with the challenges of a competitive power sector, both within Romania as well as part of the
regional electricity market.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives were to: (1) support the government's program to reform the power sector in
accordance with its overall economic reform objectives; (2) meet the demand for electricity and thermal
energy in an economic manner by rehabilitating thermal generation capacity; and (3) lay the foundation for
the future development of the sector in an institutionally, economically, and environmentally sustainable
manner.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.



                                                      - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:
1.   Power Sector Reform Program, under which technical assistance was to have been provided to the
Ministry of Industry to: (i) carry out and implement a Study of Options of Long-Term Structure for the
Power Sector; (ii) develop and implement an appropriate legal and regulatory framework for the sector to
attract private investments to the sector; and (iii) establish a long-term least-cost power sector investment
program, and carry out and implement an electricity and thermal energy pricing study.

2.   Thermal Power Plant Rehabilitation Program, which included equipment, services and technical
assistance to RENEL to: (i) rehabilitate about 1,450 MW of its existing thermal generation capacity; (ii)
convert about 200 MW of its existing lignite-based thermal capacity to coal use; and (iii) reduce the
pollution impact of thermal plants.

3.   Corporate Restructuring Program, under which technical assistance was to have been provided to
RENEL to: (i) streamline the utility to focus on electricity and thermal energy generation, transmission, and
distribution; (ii) create cost/profit centers for the generation plants and distribution subsidiaries; (iii) design
and implement management systems (for operation and maintenance management, financial and cost
accounting, human resources, materials management, and corporate planning systems); (iv) improve
metering, billing and collection system; (v) design hydropower plant, and transmission and distribution
network rehabilitation programs; (vi) retire old and inefficient thermal units; and (vii) improve
environmental management and occupational safety and health.

3.4 Revised Components:

                   Component                              Plan Cost              Actual Cost                 Rating
         1. Power Sector Reform                       $    4,300,000            $  2,900,000                  S
         2. TPP Rehabilitation                        $ 344,800,000             $ 205,640,000                 S
         3. Corporate Restructuring Program           $   14,800,000            $   8,150,000                 S

The PSRMP retained its original components, however, the program under component (2), TPP
Rehabilitation, was reduced in scope. Originally, 2 TPPs, Deva and Isalnita, were to have been
rehabilitated under the IBRD loan, and 4 units at Palas, Braila and Brazi were to have been rehabilitated
under the EBRD loan. However, the overall level of demand for electricity was less than envisioned at
project inception, and the Least Cost Optimization Study placed the rehabilitation of the Isalnita plant
outward in time, so the government decided to focus project resources on the Deva TPP. The funds
allocated for Isalnita TPP (about US$33.5 million) were cancelled from the Bank loan, which reduced the
loan amount to US$76.5 million. The TPP units at Palas and Brazi also were determined to be of lower
priority due to changed demand scenario and only Braila TPP was rehabilitated. Subsequently, only 25
MW at the Brazi TPP was rehabilitated mainly to meet heat and hot water needs of the municipality.
Overall, 840 MW of TPP capacity was rehabilitated under the project scope. Additional detail is presented
in section 5.4.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is assessed as satisfactory. The PSRMP was highly relevant to the country's
development needs. The project was consistent with the country strategy insofar as it aimed to reduce the
budgetary and quasi-fiscal deficits incurred by the power sector and enabled by the sector (e.g., by
permitting SOEs to avoid payment). The project was also designed to restructure the sector in accordance
with the appropriate functions of government in a market economy, to permit private investment where
possible and establish a competent and independent regulatory authority. The objectives of increasing



                                                        - 3 -

efficiency and laying the foundation for an environmentally sustainable sector were also consistent with the
country strategy. Action plans for environmental mitigation were adequately assessed.

The project design squarely addressed the objectives, and the project team worked extensively with
stakeholders prior to project inception; at project inception, a very effective PIU team was in place (as
noted by QAG in its 9/00 Supervision Assessment). Considerable technical work was done during
appraisal to assess the needs of the sector. Furthermore, the only Condition of Effectiveness, "satisfactory
evidence of enforceable arrangements for debt repayment with major RENEL customers," was easily
satisfied. However, the difficulty of restructuring the sector, especially sustaing the support for reform
under several successive governments and through difficult macroeconomic conditions during the late-90s
was not foreseen.

The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) anticipated a number of risks:
    · the Government's reluctance/failure to move on sectoral reform, following experience from an earlier
    restructuring loan
    · Corporate and sector restructuring would be slow
    · Inability of RENEL to mobilize local funding

The SAR strategy to mitigate the risk of slow reform progress consisted of the appointment of a high-level
Inter-Ministerial Committee to oversee key aspects of the project, along with the issuance of the Statement
of Power Sector Policy by the government and the Strategy Document outlining how progress would be
achieved. However, lack of consensus within RENEL, along with political turbulence, delayed reform
progress for some years. It took much longer than expected to resolve the differences and reach a common
understanding, and in the event the Bank and government collaborated on a Policy Note in November of
1999 that finally established a pathway for sector restructuring. Sections 4.2 and 7.1 describe the reasons
for limited progress that was made on restructuring the sector from 1996 to 1999 and for spefici delays in
rehabilitation works during 1997 and 1998.

However one factor not addressed in the SAR proved to be quite significant: important macroeconomic and
industrial shifts were underway, notably a declining industrial sector. These changes were likely to have a
dramatic downward impact on the demand for power and the geographic distribution of demand, and
should have been addressed in the SAR.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Outcome is assessed as satisfactory. The PSRMP achieved most of its relevant objectives, but project
implementation progress was uneven and achievement occurred much later than envisioned. The project
was approved by the Bank Board in August 1995, and it was originally envisioned that all reforms,
organizational restructuring, and physical rehabilitation and modernization would be completed by the end
of CY 1999, and the project would be closed by June of 2000. However, though the restructuring process
started in 1998, progress during the first few years of implementation was much slower than expected, and
it was September, 2000, when the sector was restructured. The rehabilitation of four TPPs is completed,
they are in operation, and the rehabilitation works at Deva TPP is complete as of July 2004 with the
expectation that formal operational acceptance can be achieved by end-2004. A detailed account of the
delays, including an assessment, is presented at the end of section 4.2. In assessing progress under the
project, it is useful to note that the restructuring of the sector is currently moving forwardbeyond what
was envisioned in the project, with the full commitment of the government, driven by EU accession
considerations and supported by the Bank under subsequent ongoing projects in the sector and PSAL-2.



                                                        - 4 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
1.  Power Sector Reform Program: Technical assistance was provided to the erstwhile Ministry of
Industry (in conjunction with other donors), with the following results:

Least-Cost Study: The project funded (along with EU/Phare) completion of a Least Cost Study of the
Romanian Power Sector, which was delivered in April, 1998. This study, effectively adapted to the
Romanian context, determined an optimal strategy by which to meet the future demand for electricity.
Using the PowerSym 3 Model, which was transferred to the Romanian counterpart, the study:

    ·   confirmed the cost-effectiveness of rehabilitation of existing generation units, rather than
    installation of new units (as a general rule)
    ·   determined which generation units would be most efficient to rehabilitate, and which ones were
    sufficiently obsolete that it would not pay to invest in them further
    ·   confirmed the importance of the nuclear generation in the system
    ·   resulted in the reallocation of the sources of lignite and hard coal for some generation plants

The PowerSym model permits Transelectrica, which now uses the model, to vary the assumptions and
parameters of the model and test the cost and effectives of various options. the Government added a
cogeneration module to the basic model. The study was reported by officials to be extremely valuable, and,
updated with current data, is still being used periodically.

Sector Restructuring Study: The restructuring study was completed, but progress in the first 3 years of
implementation was disappointing. As noted below in section 7.2, the Bank played a major role--with the
government--in developing the November-1999 Policy Note, which served as a roadmap for the
subsequent restructuring of the sector. Additional advice on restructuring the sector was provided by
EBRD as well as the consultants funded under the EU-PHARE and USAID.

Power Sector Regulation: With the help of TA provided by the PSRMP (and other donors), an appropriate
legal and regulatory framework was established. The power sector in Romania is regulated by the National
Agency for Electricity (ANRE), which was established in 1998. By commonly agreed international
standards, ANRE is part of an independent regulatory framework; regulators are appointed for fixed terms;
circumstances for the dismissal of a regulator are specified in primary legislation; the agency is
independently funded through license fees; and regulators have full tariff-setting authority. Romania is in
compliance with the requirements for independent regulation under the Athens Memorandum (the Dec.2003
Athens Memorandum is the basic understanding that underpins the Southeastern Europe Electricity Market
and the principles under which it will be integrated into the Energy Community of South East Europe, or
ECSEE). In 2001, the Government established OPCOM, a subsidiary of Transelectrica, as the market
operator for supervising and managing electricity trading. Romania is a net exporter of electricity and in
2001, for example, Romania exported 3.4 TWh, which comprised more than 24% of all power traded in
ECSEE.

ANRE officials praised the TA provided under the PSRMP as very helpful to the agency, and critical to
building capacity during its start-up phase. Subject areas mentioned included market rules, commercial
arrangements and contracts between sectoral entities, and contracts for ancillary services.

2.  Thermal Plant Rehabilitation Program, which included equipment, services and technical assistance
to RENEL to: (i) rehabilitate about 1,445 MW of its existing thermal generation capacity; (ii) convert



                                                     - 5 -

about 200 MW of its existing lignite-based thermal capacity to coal use; and (iii) reduce the pollution
impact of thermal plants. Overall, 840 MW of TPP capacity was rehabilitated and modernized under the
project as noted in section 3.4. The status of rehabilitation under the project is summarized below.

         Table 1: Units Rehabilitated Under the Project
                  TPP Unit                   Capacity            Financing                     Status
                                               (MW)                Source
        Bucharest South # 3                      100                  EIB            Completed; in operation
        Bucharest South # 4                      100                  EIB            Completed; in operation
        Palas Unit 1                             50                EBRD                       Dropped
        Palas Unit 2                             50                EBRD                       Dropped
        Brazi Unit 1 a/                          200                 Own           Scaled down to 25 MW; in
                                                                  resources                   operation
        Isalnita Unit 7                          330                IBRD                      Dropped
        Braila Unit 2                            210               EBRD              Completed; in operation
        Deva Unit 3                              210                IBRD              Completed; in testing
        Suceava: lignite to                      100                 Own             Completed; in operation
        coal conversion                                           resources
        Iasi: lignite to coal                    100                 Own             Completed; in operation
        conversion                                                resources
      a/: Originally under EBRD, but later under a private-public partnership between Brazi municipality and Dalkia

All rehabilitation works suffered delays, both due to procurement and contractor performance reasons as
well as due to adverse impact of sector/corporate restructuring. The 210 MW Deva TPP Unit 3 was the
last unit to be rehabilitated. As a result of the delays, the contract for rehabilitation of the Deva plant did
not become effective until June 2000.

As a result of new generation equipments installed in Bucharest, Braila, Deva, etc., as well as automated
turbine generators, voltage regulators and other equipment upgrades, the rated output has increased by
about 10%. The boiler efficiency of the Bucharest TPP units improved from 92% to 94.5% and the heat
rate decreased from 2469 kcal/kWh to 1418 kcal/kWh with availability rates around 88%. Similar
improvements are recorded for the Braila unit and expected for Deva unit 3 also. The installation of new
turbines is expected to extend the life of the units by 100,000 to 150,000 hours, or around 15 to 20 years of
normal usage. It is expected that the unit's maintenance costs will be lower, and that fewer maintenance
staff will be needed, providing cost savings.

Emissions from the rehabilitated units will also be reduced. More modern control systems, additional heat
exchange surfaces, and a comprehensive control system will reduce NOx emissions to around 350 mg/m3
of flue gas, compared to 500-700 mg/m3 prior to the project. Carbon monoxide emissions will also be
reduced to around 250 mg/m3, compared to 400 mg/m3 earlier. These levels are in line with EU standards
for TPPs.

As noted above, in December, 1998, the Isalnita TPP was dropped from the Bank project as result of the
findings of Long-Term Least-Cost Power Generation Development Study as well as reduced estimates of
Romania's demand for power. The Isalnita TPP was in worse condition than Deva, and would have cost
more to rehabilitate. The decision to drop this facility from the program was assessed as sound by
officials, technicians, and the Bank. It should also be noted that during the project, a number of obsolete



                                                            - 6 -

and inefficient TPPs were retired. This was made possible by the lower level of overall electricity
consumption than expected, and the expectation that the units rehabilitated under the project would soon be
brought on line. Additionally, the Mintia hard coal facility was also rehabilitated under the project.

3.   The Restructuring of the Romanian Power Sector

At project inception, all functions of the power sector were conducted through The Romanian Electricity
Authority (RENEL), as shown in Figure 1, below. During project identification--and through 1998--the
Bank discussed with the Government a number of different pathways by means of which it might unbundle
specific functional units (the Government also received advice from other donors on restructuring the
sector). As noted earlier, the Government progress in this area from 1996 to 1998 was limited.

                           Figure 1--Romanian Power Sector, 1992-June, 1998


                               RENEL--Romanian Electricity Authority
                               ·Generation
                                        ·Nuclear
                                        ·Thermal
                                        ·Hydro
                               ·Transmission
                                        ·Load dispatch
                               ·Distribution


First Steps in Restructuring--In June, 1998, the Government took the first step in restructuring the sector
by corporatizing RENEL, so that it was no longer a government agency, but instead became a joint stock
company, the National Electric Company (CONEL). This meant that, although still government-owned,
CONEL had a Board of Directors, rules of corporate governance, the ability to enter into contracts, and its
own income statement. CONEL incorporated the major power generation and transmission assets as
shown below, with the exception that Nuclearelectrica was spun off from CONEL and made into a separate
joint stock company, owned by the Government (under the Ministry of Industry). This structure is shown
in Figure 2.

                    Figure 2--Romanian Power Sector, June, 1998-September, 2000


                                                 Government of Romania




                CONEL--National Electric Company
                ·Termoelectrica--Thermal power generation                       Nuclear Power
                ·Hidroelectrica--Hydro power generation                         Generation
                ·Transelectica--Transmission
                         ·Load dispatch
                ·Electrica--Distribution
                         ·Eight regional distribution companies




                                                     - 7 -

Further Restructuring--In September, 2000, CONEL was split into 4 independent corporations, which,
although they were still government-owned, comprised separate corporate entities. Each comprises a
separate cost/profit center, and individual management systems have been created to support their
operation. This arrangement is shown in Figure 3.

                       Figure 3--Romanian Power Sector, September 2000-present


                                                   Government of
                                                   Romania


              Termoelectrica
              ·Thermal power generation


               Hidroelectrica
               ·Hydro power generation

               Transelectrica
               ·Transmission
               ·Load dispatch

               Electrica
               ·Distribution

                                                              Regional Distribution Companies




Continued progress toward sectoral reform: It is important to note that the restructuring of the sector is
currently moving forward beyond what was envisioned in the project, with the full commitment of the
government. For example, by mid-2004, 2 of the 8 local distribution companies of Electrica were sold to
Enel, Italy through a share sale and bids for 2 more distribution companies are in evaluation process.
Termoelectrica also has been split into several TPP branches as subsidiary companies, and three major
lignite TPPs and the associated mines have been formed into energy comploexes. The unit that performs
repair and maintenance for Deva has been made a separate company, and been given a 5-year contract.
After 5 years, it is the firm's intention to issue a tender for its maintenance and repair work. Similarly,
Hidroelectrica has corporatized the 8 units that perform its maintenance and repair, and intends to privatize
them.

Romania is continuing to liberalize its electricity market along the lines of EU directives, which provide for
a gradually increasing share of electricity to be contracted between suppliers (generators and traders) and
eligible customers, electricity users qualified to purchase power directly from the wholesale market.
Hidroelectrica is currently selling 40% of its output on the market at rates subject to negotiation. The Deva
plant is selling 70% of its output at prices set by ANRE, with the remaining 30% sold at prices negotiated
with 8 distribution companies.




                                                        - 8 -

Social impact of Deva rehabilitation: Employment at Deva fell from around 2,200 in 1997 to 2,000 in
2001 and 1,800 in mid-2004. It should be noted that difficult social issues were dealt with and overcome
during the Deva rehabilitation. A minority of workers at the plant opposed the rehabilitation, and they were
supported by workers from other Termoelectrica units that might have been cross-subsidized by the more
efficient Deva operation. However, the trade union representing Deva workers eventually supported the
rehabilitation, which permitted the project to proceed.

Electricity prices

A key aspect of laying the foundation for an economically viable power sector was to increase and maintain
electricity prices at a level that would cover short run marginal costs. As discussed below, this price level
would provide power firms with a positive cash flow in the medium term. Throughout the project, the
Bank worked with the Government to encourage the politically difficult steps of raising tariffs. This was
reinforced by the inclusion of tariff conditionality in the SAL, as well as being supported by
cross-conditionality in Fund programs. Tariffs fluctuated widely during the term of the project, but the
overall trend was upward; Table 2, below, shows the average revenue (cents/kWh) and related variables
over the last 6 years:

                                  Table 2: Electricity Tariffs and Collections

                                         1999         2000        2001         2002         2003        2004
  average revenue (cents/kWh)            4.34          3.90        3.52        4.14         5.25         6.79
  collections (% of billing)             89.6          94.8        94.1        93.2         98.0         98.0
  cash collections (% of billing)        60.5          60.9        60.6        65.1         68.2         72.2
 Source: World Bank, Romania 2004 CEM, v. 2, p. 160, and progress reports

The tariff data in Table 2 are an average of different rates charged to different categories of consumers.
For example, in early 2003, residential customers paid 6.4 cents/kWh, while industrial customers paid 4.7
cents. This reflected the widely varying costs of providing service to each category of user. At the same
time, there was a special low rate charged for poor customers using less than 60 kWh per month. The
Romanian price of 5.3 cents compares favorably to tariffs in other SEE countries, which averaged 3.5
cents (CEM, p. 160).

The 2003 price of 5.3 cents was sufficient to cover short run marginal cost and provide power companies
with sufficient revenue to provide a positive cash flow. However, as noted earlier, substantial new
investment in generating capacity is needed. Consequently, in the longer run, prices would need to cover
investment requirements, and therefore need to be increased to a level in the range of 7 to 9 cents/kWh,
which would then be comparable to other EU accession countries and Western Europe (CEM, p. 161).

Regarding payment discipline, there has been substantial progress in collections (as shown in the table).
However, some payments are non-cash, i.e., debt offset, and in 2002, 28 percentage points of the 93.2
percent collected was non-cash. In cash collections, Romania lags the regional average, and clearly needs
to make more progress in this area.

In the course of the project, RENEL finances were weakened in 1996-97 when tariff adjustments were
delayed or were insufficient, a violation of a project covenant. Also, in 2001 Termoelectrica's finances
were weakened due to insufficient tariffs and poor collections. Tariffs were raised, and this problem was
subsequently remedied.


                                                      - 9 -

Assessment of Project Delays

During supervision of the PSRMP, the Bank balanced considerations of the delays early in the project
against the prospect that the restructuring of the sector and rehabilitation of the facilities could ultimately
succeed. The Bank judged that the positive trend in the Borrower commitment to reform, the incremental
progress made in the first half of the project, along with the prospect of EU accession, argued for
continuing to work patiently toward project goals. As noted above, this was ultimately successful as most
relevant objectives were achieved. The following were the main reasons for the delays, along with major
milestones in project progress:

    1. 1996-98: the Government and RENEL unable to agree on sector restructuring plan.

    2. 1996-97: RENEL finances weak due to insufficient/delayed tariff adjustments.

    3. Mid-1997 to end-1998: the Government and the Bank explore proposals for rehabilitation of TPPs
    through IPP model using the Bank's guarantee facility; the Government and CONEL finally reiterate
    desire to proceed with project as originally planned.

    4. Mid-1998: RENEL corporatized, becomes National Electric Company (CONEL).

    5. Dec.-1998: Isalnita TPP dropped from project scope as a result of the findings of Long-Term
    Least-Cost Power Generation Development Study and reduced estimate of Romanian demand for
    power; work continues on rehabilitation of Deva TPP.

    6. 1999: Significant progress made on development of sector restructuring plan.

    7. Sep.-2000: Sector restructuring initiated; CONEL unbundled into 4 component companies.

    8. May-2001: The project continues to be delayed and financial situation of Termoelectrica weakens;
    the Government, following discussion with the Bank, suspends project to ensure appropriate allocation
    of Loan obligations among the successor companies to CONEL (see below); Deva TPP contractor
    incurs costs as a result of suspension.

    9. May-2002: Project suspension lifted; Loan Amendments approved by the Bank's Board identifying
    Deva as borrower for remaining loan funds and project completion, and other CONEL successor
    companies as responsible for loan repayment for previously utilized loan funds.

    10. Jan.-2003: Deva TPP contractor resumes work after 9-month negotiation over magnitude of and
    responsibility for suspension-related costs.

    11. Sep.-2003: Deva TPP high-pressure turbine casings fail in test, necessitating manufacture of new
    casings; expected inspection date July, 2004.

Implication of the Delay

As noted above, the delays impacted project implementation considerably. The project required around 9
years to complete, compared to an original expectation of 5 years. While delays due to borrower and/or
government decisions or compliance are understandable for complex projects such as the PSRMP, the


                                                     - 10 -

nearly 18 months of delay in the rehabilitation works could have been avoided, or at least considerably
reduced, if the decisions on the idea of IPP were taken in an expedient manner. There were also delays due
to technical reasons and inadequate performance by contractors to address these snags in a timely manner;
such difficulties occurred in the rehabilitation works on the Bucharest, Braila and Deva TPPs. The delays
in commissioning of rehabilitated units required operation of the less efficient units to generate electricity
with an average incremental cost in the range of 0.6 to 1.5 cents per kWh depending upon the marginal
dispatch unit; Deva and Termoelectrica specialists estimate the cumulative impact of these delays at about
US$ 16 million equivalent per year during the 2001 to 2004 period on a total capacity of about 400 MW or
average energy dispatch of about 1.6 TWh per year.

Environmental Aspects

Termoelectrica introduced Bank-supported environmental monitoring equipment under the project, and
established a separate environmental department within the firm which received training from EU/Phare.
The reduced emissions levels at Deva resulting from the facility's rehabilitation has been discussed above.
Thermal power plants, including Deva, now regularly monitor pollution and emissions and other
environmentally related parameters in conformance with Romanian regulations, which as of 2001 were
aligned with EU requirements. The rehabilitation of the Deva TPP obliged contractors to provide all
emissions control equipment in compliance with EU requirements.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The NPV for the project was originally estimated at $272 million with an IRR of about 20%. The NPV for
the project re-estimated for the actual project scope was about $62 million with an IRR of 14.3%. The
discrepancy is mainly attributed to the following: (a) delays in rehabilitation requiring nearly twice the
original time estimates; (b) reduced scope with 605 MW of capacity dropped from the project resulted in
rehabilitation costs of about $205 million compared to $348 million at appraisal; (c) lower outage cost due
to reduced demand than was assumed at appraisal; and (c) the benefit stream accounts for about 3.4 TWh
of energy, which is about 60% of 5.7 TWh output assumed at appraisal. Considering that the project scope
was adjusted to meet the evolution of demand, the IRR of 14.3% for the project is considered satisfactory.
(Details of the calculation of IRR are in Annex 3)

4.4 Financial rate of return:
See section 4.3 above.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact was substantial:

    l The entire structure of the Romanian power sector was transformed from a single
         government-owned entity to a modern, market-oriented structure in substantial compliance with EU
         directives. This has increased sector efficiency, inter alia, by spinoff of inefficient units, attracting
         private sector into distribution, etc.
    l The corporatization of Deva TPP, its satisfactory performance as borrower and its financial audits
         meeting clean audit standards helped establish a replicative model for further unbundling of
         electricity generation sector.
    l An effective regulatory framework was established, in part with the assistance of other donors, and
         the capacity of the power sector regulator (ANRE) was strengthened.
    l A market operator (OpCom) was established and Transelectrica became a full member of the
         UCTE.
    l Acquisition of the PowerSim 3 model enhanced the country's capacity to analyze options




                                                      - 11 -

         concerning a "least cost" approach to meeting its power needs.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
    ·    During the project period, the overall demand for electricity was much lower than envisioned at
         project inception, mainly driven by 2 factors: the smaller proportion of the Romanian economy
         comprised of industry; and the increased prices (a project covenant). The industrial demand which
         was 35 TWh in 1990 rapidly declined to 29.4 TWh by 1995 and was expected to remain at this
         level by 2000, but reached only 23.2 TWh in 2000.
    ·    Exogenous factors causing delays in project progress have been discussed above.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    ·    There was considerable turbulence in the Romanian government and in the management of the
         power sector during the project, with 5 Ministers of Industry and 7 Presidents of RENEL/CONEL.
         Especially during the period 1996-99, this turbulence contributed to the delay in reaching
         agreement on sector restructuring.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
N/A

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project costs amounted to $216.7 million equivalent compared with $364 million planned at
appraisal. As noted before, this was due to reduction in scope for rehabilitation. The financing for
rehabilitation was provided by EBRD (Euro 44.7 million), EIB (Euro 27 million) and the Bank ($ 76.5
million), with the balance covered by the borrower. Financing for TA was provided by USAID ($2.6
million), EU Phare (Euro 4.7 million) and the Bank ($ 3 million). The original Bank loan of US$110
million was reduced to $76.5 million after cancellation of $33.5 million in March 2001. Following
restructuring of CONEL in 2000, the Bank loan obligation of US$76.5 million was allocated to the
successor companies of CONEL in the following amounts: Electrocentralle Deva, US$69.9 million;
Termolelectrica, US$1.44 million, and Hidroelectrica, and Transelectrica, US$0.72 million each. The
restructuring of the project and allocation of respective loan amounts to these new companies were
approved by the Bank's Board of Directors in May 2002.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the benefits achieved is highly likely. As described earlier, the pace of reform
accelerated significantly in late 1999, and progress was strong by the conclusion of the project. In this
regard, it should be noted that:

    ·    The restructuring and commercialization of the power sector is ongoing (as noted in section 4.2).
         Of the 8 distribution companies owned by Electrica, 2 have been privatized and bids for 2 more are
         under review. An increasing portion of the country's power is sold by means of negotiated
         contracts between generation units and distribution companies.
    ·    A Bank project to develop a wholesale electricity market was approved in June, 2003. This will
         further stimulate private participation in the power sector.
    ·    The country's prospective accession to the EU serves as a powerful incentive to sustain reforms.
    ·    The sustainability of the benefits achieved at the Deva plant is highly likely. Following its
         rehabilitation, there is a strong incentive to utilize the plant to its maximum capacity due to its



                                                       - 12 -

         lower cost of operation, greater reliability, and lower level of emissions.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project has transitioned completely to regular operations. As described earlier, Termoelectrica has put
into operation all rehabilitated units and Deva management has completed all aspects of the facility
rehabilitation on unit 3, which is poised for commercial operation in early-2005 following the tests through
end-2004. The Romanian authorities are pushing forward with the restructuring and commercialization of
the sector, in contemplation of fully meeting EU requirements. ANRE has been fully functional since
March 1999 and OPCOM also has been acquiring important experience in the management of electricity
market.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
As noted in section 3.5, Quality at Entry was overall satisfactory. The project was highly relevant to the
country's development needs. Power sector reform was critical to the country's transition progress and
improved fiscal performance, as well as being key to facilitating private investment and environmental
mitigation. Considerable technical work on the sector, and a substantial dialogue with government was
undertaken during project preparation. The project design was highly appropriate to achieving the
objectives as stated.

Despite the interaction with stakeholders, initial progress was disappointing, and the Bank did not take
adequate account of the macroeconomic shifts taking place--most notably a much smaller industrial
sector--which would have an important impact on the overall demand for electricity. The Bank also
underestimated the difficulty of restructuring the sector.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is assessed as satisfactory, the same assessment made by QAG (9/00 QAG Quality of
Supervision Review). Delays in project implementation were substantial and have been described above.
Especially during the first 3 years of implementation, the project team struggled with the issue of whether
to continue to work to try to further reform, or to cancel the project entirely. The decision was made to
continue the efforts envisioned, and it is the position of this ICR that the project's positive results confirm
the validity of that decision.

Interviews with GoR officials and the QAG report describe the team as "capable and professional."
Questions or concerns by the Borrower were addressed quickly and effectively. An especially positive
aspect of supervision was the methodical effort by the team to work with the Government to develop a
mutually-agreed reform agenda, culminating in a November-1999 Policy Statement that established a
pathway for sector restructuring (which, after a late start, has largely been implemented as planned).
According to interviews with both the Bank and other donors, coordination with other donors was good.

Officials of Transelectrica appreciated the actions by Bank specialists to work with them to verify the
results of the Least Cost study. Government officials said that, working with the Least Cost Model, Bank
staff induced the government to "rethink" its preconceived ideas about how Romania could develop greater
generation capacity. Romanian government officials reported that Bank staff working on the project were
technically proficient and extremely helpful in facilitating progress. As noted earlier, safeguard issues
related to environmental assessment were fully complied with, as reported in interviews and by QAG.

One negative aspect of supervision, noted earlier in section 4.2, was the Bank's eagerness to restructure the



                                                       - 13 -

project to adopt the model of Independent Power Producers (IPPs) to rehabilitate Thermal Power Plants
using the Bank's guarantee facility in response to an idea proposed by the Government in 1997. This was
intended to use a Rehabilitate-Operate-Transfer (ROT) approach, and occurred from mid-1997 to
end-1998. This would have required a fundamental restructuring of the project, but the officials at RENEL
did not concur with this idea. Some of the officials interviewed reported confusion over this proposal, and
regretted that it caused a delay of around 12-18 months. Eventually, the Government reverted to the
original implementation mode, and the project proceeded to completion.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above, overall Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
RENEL's performance during preparation of the project is assessed as satisfactory. RENEL received
significant assistance from Bank team as well as consultants in the design of a rather large and complex
project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government and RENEL were unable to agree on a sectoral restructuring plan for the first 3 years of
project implementation, and consequently around half of the project's 4-year delay was due to the
prolonged process of consensus building among the key stakeholders. Since the end of 1999, however,
progress has been rapid in the restructuring of the sector and in the rehabilitation of the Deva unit 3, the
latter due mainly to the effective efforts of the management of the state-owned company.

Also, during 1996-97, tariffs were not raised sufficiently (violating a project covenant), which adversely
affected RENEL's financial status and its ability to provide counterpart funding for the project.
Subsequently, GoR began to adjust tariffs and beginning with 2001 timely adjustments helped Deva to
complete implementation and also meet agreed financial performance covenants.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Initially, RENEL's performance, especially in the technical aspects were very satisfactory. Despite the
difficulties faced by RENEL, subsequently CONEL and its successor companies, Termoelectrica was able
to complete the rehabilitation of the TPPs; Deva's performance was exemplary in all aspects, which was
also borne out by its handling of the various issues related to rehabilitation and receipt of unqualified audit
opinions for its financial accounts for 2002 and 2003.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above, overall Borrower performance is assessed as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Restructuring the power sector is a time-consuming process: The restructuring of power sector
involving unbundling and setting-up of new corporate entities takes time and sustained efforts on the part of
both the Bank and the government. Even with a positive and consistent government commitment, allocation
of assets and liabilities and the potential for unforeseen delays can make it a long process.

Well functioning regulatory framework/agency facilitates reform: ANRE's evolution into a well
functioning reculatory agency was very instrumental in supporting the reform of the sector. ANRE's staff,
who are of high caliber and well respected in the profession, helped develop the broader consensus for
resolving many sectoral issues, especially on tariffs.



                                                      - 14 -

Sector-macro synergy can be strong stimulli for reform: EU accession goal provided significant
momentum to reforms in the power sector, and when the Bank's sector assistance to create the enabling
framework is combined with macro and policy reforms supported by the Bank and/or IMF, the synergy can
ensure better and timely results.

A Least-cost study can be of considerable value without reference to the structure of the sector:
The Least Cost Study described above in sec. 4.2 made a considerable contribution to the sector even
though it was undertaken when the sector was a vertically integrated monopoly.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Ministry of Economy in charge of the energy sector provided comments and expressed as follows.

         "...as a general overview, we believe that, if during the first stage of the project, a stronger
collaboration and dialogue between the WB and the Ministry's officials would have been established, part
of the delays could have been avoided... The improved cooperation that was developed after 2001 between
the ministerial officials and the WB staff, substantially contributed to the achieving of the project's
objectives...We want to thank the Bank representatives involved in the development of this project, for their
continuous support and advice..."

The borrower, Electrocentralle Deva S.A. also provided comments and expressed as follows.

         "...the PSRMP helped install new generation equipments such as automated turbine generators,
voltage regulators and other equipment upgrades, thereby increasing the rated output by about 10%, boiler
efficiency improved from 90% to 90.7% and the heat rate decreased from 2945 kcal/kWh to 1858
kcal/kWh with availability rates around 80%... The installation of new turbines is expected to extend the
life of the unit by 150,000 hours, or around 15 to 20 years of normal usage... The unit's maintenance costs
will be lower, and that fewer maintenance staff will be needed, providing cost savings. Emissions from the
rehabilitated unit will also be reduced. More modern control systems, additional heatexchange surfaces, and
a comprehensive control system will reduce NOx emissions to around 350 mg/m3 of flue gas, compared to
500-700 mg/m3 prior to the project. Carbon monoxide emissions will also be reduced to around 250
mg/m3, compared to 400 mg/m3 earlier.

         The implementation of Deva Unit 3 Reabilitation project had a lot of dificulties too, such as the
suspension of the loan, which delayed resumption of works and required 9-month negotiation over
magnitude of and responsibility for suspension-related costs. The amount of suspension cost required by
the Contractor is very large and due to this reason the problem of suspension costs is not yet settled.
Further, the contractor also caused delays; for example the high-pressure turbine casings failed in test,
necessitating manufacture of new casings. The delays in commissioning of rehabilitated unit required
operation of the less efficient units to generate electricity. Taking into consideration the above we are
satisfied that the ICR reflects the implementation of the project in a balanced manner..."

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n/a




                                                     - 15 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
                 Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Power Sector Reform comprising:

(a) Government decision on long-term         (a) Dec. 1996                            (a) July 1998
structure of the Romania Power Sector

(b) Completion of draft electricity law and  (b) end-1997                             (b) Nov. 1998
submission to Parliament

(c) Regulatory framework                     (c) Independent regulatory body          (c) Independent regulatory body

(d) Bilateral/3rd party contract for power   (d) 33% of market opened to competition  (d) 30% competitive market realized

(e) Tariff Adjustments                       (e) periodic; target average $50/MWh     (e) periodic; average $54/MWh

2. Corporate Restructuring of CONEL:

(a) Separation of nuclear operations         (a) during 1997                          (a) mid-1998

(b) Unbundling of generation, transmission   (b) during 2000                          (b) July-2000
and distribution

3. Thermal Power Plant Pollution:            Adopt EU standards                       Achieved EU standards for rehabilitated units




Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
                 Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Completion of study of options for long   1. Dec 1996                              1. July 1997
term structure for the Power Sector.
2. Completion of least-cost generation and   2. end-1997                              2. April 1998
electricity pricing studies
3. Corporatization of Electrica,             3. mid-2000                              3. mid-2000; and Nov.2001 (Deva)
Termoelectrica, Hidroelectrica and
Transelectrica
4. Establishment of ANRE                     1999                                     April 1999
5. Establishment of OpCom                    2001                                     March 2001
6. TPP capacity enhancement                  840 MW                                   840 MW

1End of project




                                                                - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
A. Thermal Power Plants Rehabilitation                                 282.40              205.64                    73
B. Technical Assistance                                                 16.00               11.05                    69

Total Baseline Cost                                                    298.40              216.69
 Physical Contingencies                                                 44.70
 Price Contingencies                                                    20.90
                            Total Project Costs                        364.00              216.69
                    Total Financing Required                           364.00              216.69


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                               146.70              0.00               0.00            175.00            321.70
                                       (86.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (86.00)
2. Goods                                7.00               0.00               0.00             4.70              11.70
                                       (7.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (7.00)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              23.40             7.10              30.50
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (17.00)           (0.00)            (17.00)
   Total                               153.70              0.00              23.40            186.80            363.90
                                       (93.00)            (0.00)            (17.00)           (0.00)           (110.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                80.09              0.00              0.00            100.75            180.84
                                       (56.88)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (56.88)
2. Goods                                1.10               0.00              0.00             0.00              1.10
                                       (0.89)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.89)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00             25.94             8.80             34.74
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)           (14.67)            (0.00)           (14.67)
   Total                                81.20              0.00             25.94            109.55            216.69
                                       (57.77)            (0.00)           (14.67)            (0.00)           (72.44)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 18 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
      Component                Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
                           Bank        Govt.      CoF.    Bank       Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
A. TPP Rehabilitation      102.70     122.30     119.80   66.54      61.90      77.20  64.8    50.6    64.4
B. Technical Assistance     7.30       2.70       9.10     3.00       1.40       6.65  41.1    51.9    73.1


   Govt. column indicates borrower's contribution




                                                   - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The IRR for the project was projected at 20%. The revised estimate of IRR based on actual costs of the
project and updated assumptions for forecast benefits and costs is 14.3% as shown in the following table.

                                                         Fuel and
                                                           Other
                                                          Variable
                      Capital      Fixed       Outage    Operating     Total        Total       Net
            Year        Cost       O&M         Cost        Costs      Costs       Benefits   Benefits
           1995                                                        0.0                     0.0
           1996          1.5                                           1.5                     (1.5)
           1997          2.9                                           2.9                     (2.9)
           1998          7.8                    7.4                    15.2                   (15.2)
           1999          9.6                    7.4                    17.0                   (17.0)
           2000         22.1                   10.4                    32.5                   (32.5)
           2001         32.6                   10.4                    43.0                   (43.0)
           2002         77.0                   10.4                    87.5                   (87.5)
           2003         52.7        3.8         3.0         72.0      131.5         54.0      (77.5)
           2004          5.9        3.8         3.0         72.0       84.7        108.0       23.3
           2005                     5.6                     98.3      103.9        154.7       50.8
           2006                     5.6                    101.2      106.8        159.3       52.5
           2007                     5.6                    103.5      109.1        162.8       53.7
           2008                     5.6                    106.6      112.2        167.6       55.5
           2009                     5.6                    109.8      115.4        172.7       57.3
           2010                     5.6                    113.1      118.7        177.9       59.2
           2011                     5.6                    116.5      122.1        183.2       61.1
           2012                     5.6                    120.0      125.6        188.7       63.1
           2013                     5.6                    123.6      129.2        194.4       65.2
           2014                     5.6                    127.3      132.9        200.2       67.3
           2015                     5.6                    131.2      136.7        206.2       69.5
           2016                     5.6                    135.1      140.6        212.4       71.7
           2017                     2.8                    139.2      141.9        218.7       76.8
           2018                     2.8                    143.3      146.1        225.3       79.2
           2019                     2.8                    147.6      150.4        232.1       81.7
           2020                     1.4                    152.1      153.4        239.0       85.6
           2021                     1.4                    156.6      158.0        246.2       88.2
                                                                                NPV@10%         62
                                                                                    IRR       14.3%


Capital costs are actuals based on progress reports for the revised scope of the project. O&M costs are
assumed at 2.5% of total capital costs in line with original assumptions. Outage costs are based on fuel
costs per MWh of production at the Deva ($25), Bucharest ($30.4), Braila ($39.26) and Brazi ($34) TPPs
and other variable costs at each plant at $5/MWh, with fuel prices assumed to increase at 4% annually.
Revenues from 3.4 TWh of maximum energy from these modernized units at $45/MWh (excluding VAT)
is assumed and annual adjustment at 3% to tariffs is assumed.




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/24/1992


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/01/1994
              04/13/1995

 Supervision

              07/28/1996                2    SR. ENERGY ECONOMIST (1);        U               U
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              04/14/1997                4    SR. POWER ENGINEER (1);          S               S
                                             SR. ENERGY ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              06/09/1998                1    PTL (1)                          U               U
              11/24/1998                4    PTL (1); FINANCIAL               U               S
                                             ANALYST (1); POWER
                                             ENGINEERS (2)
              04/28/1999                4    PTL (1); POWER ENGINEER          S               S
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)
              10/21/1999                4    PTL (1); POWER ENGINEER          S               S
                                             (1); PROJECTS OFFICER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              06/15/2000                2    PTL (1); OPERATIONS              S               S
                                             OFFICER (1)
              10/06/2000                3    PTL (1); POWER                   S               S
                                             ENGINEER(1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1)
              04/10/2001                3    PTL (1); POWER                   U               S
                                             ENGINEER(1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER
              11/24/2001                4    PTL(1); POWER                    U               S
                                             ENGINEER(1);
                                             OPERATIONAL OFFICER(1);
                                             FIN. MANAGEMENT(1)
              04/01/2002                2    PTL(1); OPERATIONS               S               S
                                             OFFICER (1)
              10/15/2002                3    PTL(1);OPERATIONS                S               S
                                             OFFICER (1); FIN.
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
              06/17/2003                6    PTL(1);POWER                     S               S
                                             ENGINEER(1);OPERATIONS




                                              - 21 -

                                                   OFFICER(1); FIN.MGMT (1);
                                                   PROC.SPECIALIST(1);
                                                   CONSULTANT (1);
               11/15/2003
               06/10/2004                     2    OPERATIONS OFFICER(1);               S                 S
                                                   FIN. MANAGEMENT (1);
               07/05/2004                     1    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)               S                 S
               08/20/2004                     2    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);              S                 S
                                                   PROC.SPECIALIST(1)


 ICR
               04/15/2004                     2    PTL(1);CONSULTANT(1)                 S                 S




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                     1183.4
  Supervision                                                                945.3
  ICR
  Total                                                                     2128.7
Note: SAP does not provide a breakdown of staff time by weeks spent. It does not distinguish between
Identification/Preparation and APpraisal/Negotiation, or between Supervision and ICR; therefore all costs
related to project preparation are shown under the Appraisal/Negotiation entry above, and all costs related
to ICR are included in the entry for Supervision.




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 25 -

- 26 -

