Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3936-D-RO
Loan Assumption Agreement
(Power Sector Rehabilitation and Modernization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ELECTROCENTRALE DEVA S.A.
Dated May 31, 2002
LOAN NUMBER  3936-1-RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 31, 2002 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
Page  2
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ELECTROCENTRALE DEVA 
S.A. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) by loan agreement between the Bank and the Regia Autonoma de 
Electricitate (RAE), dated August 29, 1995  and amended on July 20, 2000 (the Loan 
Agreement), the Bank made a loan (the RAE Loan) to RAE in an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to the amount of one hundred ten million dollars ($110,000,000) on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement;
(B)
by a guarantee agreement between Romania (the Guarantor) and the Bank, dated 
August 29, 1995 (the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor guaranteed all the obligations of 
RAE contained or referred to in the Loan Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
by Government Decision No. 365/1998 of the Guarantor, dated July 3, 1998, 
Compania Nationala De Electricitate S.A. (Conel) was created and assumed RAE’s assets, 
liabilities and subsidiaries;
(D)
by Government Decision. No. 627/2000 of the Guarantor, dated July 13, 2000, 
Transelectrica S.A. (Transelectrica), Hidroelectrica S.A. (Hidroelectrica), Electrica S.A. 
(Electrica) and Termoelectrica S.A. (Termoelectrica) were created and assumed Conel’s assets, 
liabilities and subsidiaries;
(E)
pursuant to the exchange of letters between the Bank and the Guarantor dated 
February 13, 2001 and February 16, 2001, an amount equivalent to $33,500,000 was cancelled 
from the RAE Loan;
(F)
by Government Decision. No. 1182/2001 of the Guarantor, dated November 27, 
2001, and pursuant to the Decision of the General Assembly of the Shareholders of 
Termoelectrica, No. 12/2001, dated December 11, 2001, the Commercial Company for the 
Production of Thermal and Electric Power - Electrocentrale Deva S.A. Subsidiary (Deva or the 
Borrower) was created as the subsidiary of Termoelectrica;
(G)
the Borrower has agreed to assume a portion of the RAE Loan in the amount of 
$69,908,805.43 equivalent (the Loan), of which an amount of about $10,930,016.29  equivalent 
was disbursed and outstanding as of April 30, 2002;
Page  3
(H)
by loan assumption agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Termoelectrica (the Termoelectrica Loan Assumption Agreement), Termoelectrica has agreed to 
assume a portion of the RAE Loan in the amount of $1,438,450.45 equivalent, all of which has 
been disbursed and outstanding as of April 30, 2002;
(I)
by loan assumption agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Electrica (the Electrica Loan Assumption Agreement),
 
Electrica has agreed to assume a portion 
of the RAE Loan in an amount of $719,648.11 equivalent, all of which has been disbursed and 
outstanding as of April 30, 2002;
(J)
by loan assumption agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Hidroelectrica (the Hidroelectrica Loan Assumption Agreement),
 
Hidrolectrica has agreed to 
assume a portion of the RAE Loan in an amount of $719,647.98 equivalent, all of which has 
been disbursed and outstanding as of April 30,2002;
(K)
by loan assumption agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Transelectrica (the Transelectrica Loan Assumption Agreement), Transelectrica has agreed to 
assume a portion of the RAE Loan in the amount of $719,648.03 equivalent, all of which has 
been disbursed and outstanding as of April 30, 2002;
(L)
the implementation of Parts A and C of the Project, as described in Schedule 2 to 
this Loan Assumption Agreement, has been completed;
(M)
the Borrower and the Guarantor, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to agree 
to the undertaking by the Borrower of the obligations in respect of carrying out Part B of the 
Project as provided in this Agreement;
(N)
the Bank has agreed to the request of the Guarantor and the Borrower;
(O)
this Loan Assumption Agreement and the Loan Assumption Agreements of even 
date herewith between the Bank and Termoelectrica, Transelectrica, Hidroelectrica and Electrica, 
respectively, supersede the Loan Agreement; 
(P)
by an amended guarantee agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank of 
even date herewith (the Amended Guarantee Agreement) the Guarantor guarantees all 
obligations of the Borrower contained or referred to in this Loan Assumption Agreement on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Amended Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to enter into 
this Agreement on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                    ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
Page  4
Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Currency Pool Loans” of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 with modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Loan Assumption Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons 
or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) and a new 
sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article 
III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement
."
Section 1.02.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Loan Assumption Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   
“Corporate Restructuring Program” means the program that has been carried out 
under Part C of Schedule 2 hereto;
(b)   “Power Sector Strategy” means the strategy of the Guarantor for the 
development of the power sector as stated in an official document dated May 1995 and as 
subsequently revised;
(c) 
“Project Implementation Department” means the department established by the 
Borrower for the implementation of Part B of the Project; and
(d) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Loan 
Assumption Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.
The Borrower agrees to assume a portion of the RAE Loan in the 
amount of sixty-nine million, nine hundred eight thousand, eight hundred five dollars and 
forty-three cents ($69,908,805.43) equivalent in accordance with the provisions of this Loan 
Assumption Agreement. A portion of the Loan equivalent to $10,930,016.29 has been  
Page  5
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement for expenditures made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.  The Bank agrees to lend 
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various 
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifty-eight million, nine 
hundred seventy-eight thousand, seven hundred eighty-nine dollars and fourteen cents 
($58,978,789.14) being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02.
(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for Part B of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Loan Assumption Agreement.
Section 2.03.
The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such 
later date.
Section 2.04.
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05.
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost 
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Loan Assumption 
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during 
the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)     “Interest Period” means a six-month period ending on the date immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this                  
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this Agreement 
is signed.
(ii)
“Cost of Qualified Borrowings” means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
Page  6
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may be made 
by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined 
otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
“Semester” means the first six months or the second six months of a 
calendar year.
(d)   
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months’ notice to the 
Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
“(a)  
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of  1%). On each of the dates specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Loan Assumption Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period.”
“(b)  
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such Quarter.”
“(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.”
Section 2.06.
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 and 
November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07.
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Loan Assumption 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Loan Assumption Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part 
B
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with  appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and public utility practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
purpose.
Section 3.02.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Loan Assumption Agreement.
Section 3.03.
The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the Project 
Page  7
Section 3.03.
The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the Project 
Implementation Department will continue to be adequately staffed and funded in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank in order to implement Part B of the Project.
Section 3.04.
The Borrower shall, no later than October 31, 2002, have appointed 
Project auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan; and 
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01.
The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and public utility 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02.
The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
public utility practices.
Section 4.03.
The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 5.01.
(a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial  condition.
(b)   
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) and the 
Page  8
statements of income and expenses and related statements) and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof as the 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
Section 5.02.
(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure 
that the estimated net revenues of the Borrower  during the year 2002 and during each 
succeeding fiscal year shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service 
requirements of the Borrower for any such fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower.
(b)
The Borrower shall at all times ensure that its average tariffs are set at a level 
adequate to achieve the debt service ratio of 1.5 as referred to in paragraph (a) above.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)   
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between:
Page  9
(A)     the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations and 
net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(iii)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference  between:
(A)    revenues from all sources other than those related to operations;  
and
(B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred 
in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(iv)    The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges on, debt.
(v)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, 
in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in another 
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of  servicing such debt, or, in 
the absence of such rate, on the basis of 
a rate of exchange acceptable to 
the Bank.
Section 5.03.
The Borrower shall ensure that receivables on its electricity sales to 
Electrica S.A., including contractual buyers, will not exceed the average of six weeks’  sales to 
such customers.
Section 5.04.
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank by October 31 of each year, 
beginning on October 31, 2002, for the Bank’s review, a financing plan set forth for the 
following fiscal year, including the measures proposed or agreed to be undertaken during the 
coming year showing compliance with agreed financial performance criteria for that year, 
incorporating any Bank’s comments on the previous draft, and approved by the Guarantor.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(i)
the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower 
Page  10
(i)
the execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower 
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and 
corporate action; 
(ii)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Termoelectrica Loan 
Assumption Agreement, Hidroelectrica Loan Assumption Agreement, 
Electrica Loan Assumption Agreement, Transelectrica Loan Assumption 
Agreement and the Amended Guarantee Agreement, other than those 
related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(iii)
the Borrower has submitted to the Bank the financing plan for the 
project for 2002, satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02.
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Loan Assumption 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.
The General Manager of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02.
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
 Electrocentrale Deva S.A
1 Santierului Street 
Mintia 2723
Romania
                        Facsimile:
40-54-225-846
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
Facsimile:
 
INTBAFRAD                 248423 (MCI), or
(202) 477 6391
             Washington, D.C.           64145 (MCI)             
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Loan Assumption Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Bucharest, Romania, as of the day and year first above written.
ELECTROCENTRALE DEVA S.A.
By
/s/
Victor Vaida
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/
Andrew N. Vorkink
Director
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia
Page  12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
   Amount of the
  Loan Allocated              
      % of
    (Expressed in         
 Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods (including                          57,000,000.00             
85%
associated works
and services)
(2) Consulting 
services:
 
(a)  Engineering and                      7,000,000.00             
100%
Project management
consulting services
(b) Other consulting                        200,000.00             
100%
services, including
audit services.
(3) 
Unallocated                                 5,708,805.43
       TOTAL                             69,908,805.43
2.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Loan Assumption Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $20,000,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after September 
1, 2000.
3.  
The Bank may require or agree to withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements for expenditures for: (a) consultant’s services under contracts with consulting 
firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (b) consultant’s services under contracts with 
individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (c) goods under contracts not 
exceeding $5,000,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
                  Description of the Project
Page  13
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support the Guarantor’s program to reform the 
power sector in accordance with the Guarantor’s overall economic reform objectives; (b) meet 
the demand for electricity and thermal energy in an economic manner by rehabilitating thermal 
generation capacity; and (c) lay the foundation for the future development of the sector in an 
institutionally, economically and environmentally sustainable manner.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Bank and the Borrower, with respect to Parts B and C of the Project, and the Bank and the 
Guarantor, with respect to Part A of the Project, may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives: 
Part A
:   Power Sector Reform Program
Provision of technical assistance to the Guarantor to: (i) carry out and implement a study 
of options of long-term structure for the power sector; (ii) develop and implement an appropriate 
legal and regulatory framework for the sector to attract private investments to the sector; and (iii) 
establish a long-term least-cost power generation development Program, and carry out and 
implement an electricity and thermal energy pricing study.
Part B
:  Thermal Plant Rehabilitation Program.
1.
Provision of equipment, services and technical assistance to the Borrower to:    (i) 
rehabilitate about 210 MW of its existing thermal generation capacity; and (ii) reduce pollution 
impact of thermal plants. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower to: (i) rehabilitate about      1,145 MW 
of its existing thermal generation capacity; (ii) convert about 200 MW of its existing 
lignite-based thermal capacity to coal use; and (iii) reduce pollution impact of thermal plants.
Part C
:    Corporate Restructuring Program
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower to: (i) streamline the utility to focus on 
electricity and thermal energy generation, transmission, and distribution;         (ii) create 
cost/profit centers for the generation plants and distribution subsidiaries;      (iii) design and 
implement management systems (for operation and maintenance management, financial and cost 
accounting, financial auditing, human resources, materials management, and corporate planning 
systems); (iv) improve the billing and collection system; (v) design hydropower plant, and 
transmission and distribution network rehabilitation programs; (vi) retire old and inefficient 
thermal units; (vii) improve environmental management and occupational safety and health; (viii) 
and carry out a Y2K assessment for the power system and develop a contingency plan.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Page  14
Date Payment Due
  (expressed in dollars)*
May 1, 2002                                         
1,501,343.30
November 1, 2002                                   
1,554,317.34
May 1, 2003                                           
1,607,196.26
November 1, 2003                                
1,666,732.62
May 1, 2004 
1,722,940.26
November 1, 2004                                
1,785,805.34
May 1, 2005                                         
1,848,575.29
November 1, 2005                                 
1,914,769.06
May 1, 2006                                         
1,980,867.73
November 1, 2006                                 
2,053,623.83
May 1, 2007                                         
2,126,379.92
November 1, 2007                                 
2,199,136.00
May 1, 2008                                         
2,278,549.51
November 1, 2008                                 
2,357,867.92
May 1, 2009                                         
2,443,938.84
November 1, 2009                                 
2,529,914.66
May 1, 2010                                      
2,619,124.09
November 1, 2010                                 
2,711,757.34
May 1, 2011                                         
2,807,719.28
November 1, 2011                                 
2,906,914.84
May 1, 2012                                        
3,009,439.11
November 1, 2012                                 
3,118,525.68
May 1, 2013                                         
3,227,707.38
November 1, 2013                                 
3,343,451.38
May 1, 2014                                        
3,459,195.38
November 1, 2014                                
3,584,830.40
May 1, 2015                                         
3,710,465.43
November 1, 2015                              
3,837,717.24
TOTAL
69,908,805.43
______________
*  
 The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the respective dates of 
withdrawal. 
See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on the 
principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for 
the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) 
applicable to the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Page  15
Not more than three years                   
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                        
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                           
0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                      
0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                      
0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                       
1.00
maturity
                   SCHEDULE 4
                        Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I
.  Procurement of Goods
Part A
:   General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B
:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  
The supply of goods, erection and commissioning services for each of the thermal plants 
under Part B of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.  
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)   
Prequalification
 
Bidders for goods under Part B of the Project shall be prequalified in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods. The provisions of   paragraphs 
Page  16
(b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods. The provisions of   paragraphs 
2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Guarantor.
Part C
:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.  
Prior Review
With respect to all contracts procured under Section I Part B of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.  Employment of Consultants
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The 
World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, 
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for 
consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such  modifications thereto as shall have been 
agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.  
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)   the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Loan Assumption Agreement; and
(c)   
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  17
3.  
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)   
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii)   
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.  
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Loan 
Assumption Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of this Loan Assumption Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
Page  18
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for Part B of the Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to Part B of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts B of the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  
(a)   
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)   
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)   
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)   
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Loan Assumption Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
