LOAN NUMBER          RO
Guarantee Agreement
(Power Sector Rehabilitation and Modernization Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                           , 1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3   RO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        #k,4"*'Zq    , 1995, between ROMANIA
(the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Regia Autonoma de Electricitate
(the Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
(B)  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower
a Loan in various currencies equivalent to one hundred ten million
dollars ($110,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to
this Agreement and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan


﻿-2-
Agreement, and, to this end, without limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and
not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal
of, and interest and dther charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of
all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever
there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the
Borrower will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures
required for the carrying out of Parts B and C of the Project, to
make arrangementz, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are
needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall carry out or cause to be
carried out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions
(relating to plans and schedules and records and reports,
respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall: (i) appoint consultants,
whose qualifications and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to
the Bank, to carry out a study of options of long-term structure for
the power sector, and ensure its completion by September 30, 1996,
or such later date as the Bank may agree; (ii) no later than three
months after the conclusion of the assessment of the options of the
long-term sector structure (Phase I of the study), or such later
date as the Bank may agree, inform the Bank of its decision on the
selected long-term structure for the power sector in Romania; (iii)
complete a draft electricity law for submission to the Romanian
Parliament no later than December 31, 1996; (iv) no later than three
months after the submission to the Guarantor of the consultants'
final report on the study of options of long-term structure for the


﻿-3-
power sector, provide to the Bank an action program, satisfactory to
the Bank, for the implementation of the long-term sector structure;
and (v) implement said action program.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that its departments, agencies and enterprises, as well as
local authorities, settle the Borrower's electricity and thermal
energy bills within no more than 60 days from the date of such
bills.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall review annually with the
Bank, no later than October 31 of each year, the progress in the
implementation of the Power Sector Strategy and policy framework,
and shall take corrective and other policy measures to ensure the
achievement of the strategic objectives set forth in said Power
Sector Strategy.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall: (i) promptly after the
commissioning of the first unit of the Cernavoda nuclear power
station, inform the Bank of the commissioning of said unit; (ii)
over a period of eighteen months after the commissioning of said
unit, take all necessary measures, agreeable to the Bank, to
separate all nuclear power activities from the power activities of
the Borrower; and (iii) no later than twenty months after the
commissioning of said unit, establish an independent public entity
to carry out such nuclear power activities.
Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall progressively reduce the
level of cross-subsidization of electricity prices paid by
households over a period of four years from the date of this
Agreement, so as to ensure that by December 31, 1999, all such
subsidies shall have been eliminated.
Section  3.08.   The  Guarantor  shall   maintain  consumer
electricity prices corresponding on average to not less than the
equivalent of $50 (including VAT) per megawatt-hour through periodic
adjustments to the consumer electricity prices in accordance with a
timetable acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.09. The Guarantor shall adjust, pursuant to
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the consumer electricity prices
if changes to the level prevailing on the date immediately preceding
the adjustment of the consumer electricity prices shall have
occurred in the international market prices of the main fuels (coal,
natural gas and fuel oil) used by the Borrower for power generation.


﻿-4-
Section 3.10. The Guarantor shall: (i) by September 30, 1995,
or such later date as the Bank may agree, appoint consultants, whose
qualifications and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, to carry out an electricity and thermal energy pricing study;
(ii) promptly upon its completion, discuss with the Bank the
findings and the recommendations of said study; and (iii) according
to a timetable acceptable to the Bank, provide to the Bank a
satisfactory program for the implementation of the actions agreed as
a result of said study and discussions with the Bank.
Section 3.11. The Guarantor shall: (i) by September 30, 1995,
or such later date as the Bank may agree, appoint consiltants, whose
qualifications and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, to carry out a long-term least-cost power generation
development study; and (ii) promptly upon its completion, discuss
with the Bank the findings and the recommendations of said study.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
The Ministry of Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania
Telex:
11239


﻿-5-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex.
INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
ROMANIA
By /5S  L on d
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  ISl,  dl     &
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


