Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14676
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2253-MOR)
JUNE 26, 1995
Agriculture Operations Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2253-MOR)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dirham (DH)
Appraisal Year Average:               US$ 1 = DH  6.00
Implementation Years Average:               US$ 1 = DH  8.72
Completion Average:                US$ 1 = DH  9.5
WEIGHT S AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ASAP                Agricultural Sector Adjustment Programme
AUEA                Water Users' Association
CMU                 Central Management Unit
CNCA                National Agricultural Credit Bank
DER                 Directorate of Rural Equipment
DPA                 Provincial Directorate of Agriculture
DPAE                Directorate of Planning and Economic Affairs
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP              Food and Agricultural Organization/World Bank-Cooperative Programme
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
LPEE                Laboratoire public des etudes et essais
MARA                Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
O & M               Operation and Maintenance
ONE                National Electricity Authority
ORMVASM            Regional Office for Agricultural Development for Souss-Massa
PAGI                Large-Scale Irrigation Improvement Project
PCC                 Project Coordination Committee
PCR                 Project Completion Report
PRV                Research and Extension Project
SAP                 Special Action Programme
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SMSI                Small and Medium-Scale Irrigation
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
ice of Director-General
perations Evaluation                                                             June 26, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Morocco
Small and Medium-scale Irrigation Project (Loan 2253-MOR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Morocco Small and Medium-scale
Irrigation project (Loan 2253-MOR). Parts I and III were prepared by the FAO/CP for the Middle
East and North Africa Regional Office. Part 11 was prepared by the Borrower.
Part of a national shift in emphasis from large-scale irrigation, the project aimed to up-grade
or create five irrigation perimeters which differed greatly in size and other characteristics. Forming
users' associations and turning over operation and maintenance (O&M) to them was a key objective.
Budget constraints hampered implementation. Four sub-projects commanding 13,420 ha were
completed about three years later than projected. The quality of civil works was adequate.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. Farmers are making good use of irrigation,
intensifying cropping even more than projected at appraisal. However, benefit estimates are not based
on monitoring and evaluation, which never got started because baseline studies were not completed.
Operation and maintenance arrangements are adequate. Therefore, sustainability is rated as likely
despite inadequate water supply or declining aquifers on some sub-projects. Much progress has been
made in creating and solidifying irrigators' groups. Therefore, institutional development is rated as
substantial.
The PCR presents a fair and complete assessment of the project and its expected impact.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2253-MOR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................,                                                                  ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                        ........ 1
1. Project Identity   .         ..........................................   1
2. Background .............................................  1
Economic Context . ....................................... 1
Policy Context .......................................... 2
Macro-Economic Situation During Project Implementation ...............   2
3. Project Objectives and Description   ...............................  2
4. Project Design and Organization                   ......................                                4
5. Project Implementation . ....................................... 5
General .............................................. 5
Main Components . ....................................... 6
Monitoring and Evaluation  ...........                    .......................  7
Studies, Technical Assistance and Training  ........................  7
Management ........................................... 8
Rislcs  ............................................                                               8
Project Cost ...........................................   8
6. Project Results .       ...........................................  9
Water Availability  .          ......................................  9
Support Services ........................................ 10
Agricultural Development ................................... 11
Water Users' Associations .................................. 11
Economic Returns . ....................................... 12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2253-MOR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Small and Medium-Scale
Irrigation Project in Morocco for which the Loan 2253-MOR in the amount of US$ 42.0 million
was approved in March 1983. The loan was closed on December 31, 1992, three years behind
schedule. A sum of US$ 11.2 million was cancelled.
This PCR (Parts I and III) was prepared by staff of the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP), who visited Morocco from October 17 to 31, 1993. Part II
was prepared by the Borrower.
The report is based, inter alia, on information gathered by the FAO/CP team and
the project staff and through discussions with officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Ministry of Public Works (Hydraulics Department), Bank staff associated with the Project, the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, the Preparation Report, Supervision Reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda.






- ii -
PROJECT COM1PLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2253-MOR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background, Objectives and Design
The Small and Medium-Scale Irrigation (SMSI) project was conceived at a time
when the Government had decided to increase the share allocated to agriculture in the public
investment programme, and within that sector, specifically to the rainfed areas and SMSI
schemes, in order to remedy its disappointing performance. The increased emphasis on SMSI
also reflected the recognition that this sub-sector, in contrast to large-scale irrigation, had been
relatively neglected in the past and offered an opportunity for substantial increases in agricultural
production. The project was implemented during a period of severe financial crisis, at which
time public investments were drastically cut, thus affecting most projects, including the SMSI
project.
The central objective of the SMSI project was to establish a systematic approach to
the development of the sub-sector through (i) the creation of a viable legal framework; (ii) the
design and implementation of workable arrangements for farmers' responsibility in operation,
maintenance and cost recovery of the irrigation systems; (iii) the building up of SMSI experience
in the Provincial Directorates of Agriculture (DPA). This approach was to be established through
the construction of the Jemaa Sahim and Middle Sebou schemes, the rehabilitation of the Souss,
Ghiss and Chichaoua schemes, and the preparation of a second-stage project.
The project was well designed as the systematic approach adopted laid the
foundation for long-term development of the sub-sector. The Second SMSI project, appraised
in May 1987, is now being implemented.
Project Implementation
The project became effective in January 1984 and the closing date, initially planned
for end December 1989, was delayed by three years to end December 1992. Due to the difficult
budgetary situation faced by the country at that time, progress was initially slow, in spite of
frequent and regular World Bank Supervision Mission interventions. The Loan agreement was
amended twice, the first time in 1985 under the Special Action Programme (SAP), which
increased the disbursement rate for civil works from 40 to 60%, and the second in 1987, when



- iii -
the Middle Sebou sub-project and an amount of US$ 8 million from the loan were cancelled.
The project cost was originally estimated at around DH 325 million (US$ 57.5 million), not
taking into account the Middle Sebou sub-project. The actual cost is estimated at around DH 448
million (US$ 53.8 million) or in DH and US$ terms, 138% and 94% respectively of the
estimate. The large difference between the DH and US$ rates results from the significant
appreciation of the US$ versus the DH during proiect implementation. Actual disbursements
totalled US$ 30.8 million or 91% of the loan amount as amended in 1987 (US$ 34 million).
Broadly speaking, the physical targets planned for the irrigation infrastructure were
met and even exceeded, but with a delay varying from two to four years. Irrigation development
within the four schemes totalled 13,426 ha instead of the 12,880 ha planned at appraisal. The
high standard of construction can be largely attributed to the quality and continuity of the project
management (CMU, ORMVASM and DPAs). The construction and equipment programme to
support the introduction of improved technical packages was partially cancelled, in order to use
the limited budget available to complete the irrigation infrastructure. Support activities were
nevertheless frequently financed by other projects. Data on on-farm investments are
unfortunately not available as the monitoring and evaluation system was weak and did not record
them. Local technicians have nevertheless noticed that some farmers have purchased motorized
as well as animal traction equipment and upgraded cattle, have established orchards, etc.
Project Results
Following project implementation, water availability to farms increased, but
reliability varies from one sub-project to another, depending on water sources. The Jemaa Sahim
scheme has a guaranteed water source of 300 1/sec which would meet water requirements in the
peak demand month. Rehabilitation of the three traditional schemes has reduced losses and
increased availability by at least the appraisal estimates of 25 to 45 %. Water resources provided
by the tubewells and wells constructed by the project would approximately cover the projected
demand of the Souss scheme for the near future. Long-term water availability for the scheme
is an important issue discussed in para. 7.2. Water resources for the Ghiss scheme during
periods of peak demand are likely to amount to only about 50 to 60% of the appraisal estimate.
Land use and cropping intensity will therefore have to be adjusted accordingly. Water available
in the Chichaoua scheme is more than adequate to irrigate the equipped area. However, water
resources misused in the upstream areas could be reallocated for further extension of the scheme
if a water rights rental market were to be established.
The Directorate of Planning and Economic Affairs (DPAE), which had been
entrusted responsibility for monitoring and evaluating project benefits, is still completing the
Souss, Ghiss and Chichaoua economic and social baseline surveys. Notwithstanding the almost
total absence of reliable data on project impact, a rough estimate of the "present" and "at full
development" agricultural production has been made in collaboration with DPAs and
ORMVASM staff. The actual cropping patterns show clearly that, as soon as water is available,
farmers react quickly to market opportunities. Farmers give preference to citrus, olives,



- iv -
sugarbeet, grain legumes and alfalfa, for which the returns are high. Yields are promising and
it is anticipated that, at full development stage, they are likely to exceed the planned appraisal
levels. Total expected production could therefore exceed the appraisal estimate. The estimated
actual Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is nevertheless slightly lower (13.5% instead of 15%)
than envisaged at appraisal due to (i) the very low viability of the Ghiss sub-project (4%)
because of overestimated water resources and (ii) the marginal ERR of the Jemaa Sahim sub-
project (9%) with high per ha investment costs and some delays in completion and intense use
of the irrigation infrastructure.
The constitution of Water Users' Associations (AUEA) in all four sub-projects can
be considered as one of the most important accomplishments of the project, in spite of the delays
experienced, due essentially to numerous administrative and legal hurdles. Creation of "de facto"
associations prior to promulgation of the law, has allowed the project, since the early stage of
operation of the schemes, to gradually entrust the operation and maintenance responsibility to
the water users. Nevertheless, in spite of all the achievements, much remains to be done to
arrive at full responsibility of AUEA for operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems.
It is not yet clear whether the farmers of the Souss and Jemaa Sahim schemes will be able to pay
the full 0 & M cost plus an adequate allowance for depreciation of the pumping stations.
Project Sustainability
Both the rehabilitated traditional schemes and the new one are expected to be
correctly operated and maintained by the AUEA as farmers appreciate the value of irrigation
water and have already agreed to contribute substantially, although not fully, to the operation
and maintenance cost. It will, however, be necessary to fix, as soon as possible, in agreement
with the AUEAs in each of the four schemes, the water charges in Ghiss and Chichaoua at a
level that could cover 0 & M cost and a fair percentage of the irrigation infrastructure
investment cost, including in Souss and Jemaa Sahim adequate allowances for depreciation.
The sustainability of groundwater resources in the Souss valley will depend on full
implementation of the 1981 decree for control of private pumping in the Souss aquifer.
However, even with strict control of private pumping, there would be a continuous drawdown
of the water table due to the annual deficit of the Souss aquifer. Water resource availability for
the Souss scheme would nevertheless not be an issue for its sustainability but pumping costs
would increase continuously.
Lessons Learned
The experience with this project shows that:
(i)   the establishment of AUEA seems to be a correct approach to the problem
of operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes;



(ii)    AUEA should be established in time for the beneficiaries to be able to
influence the final design of the rehabilitation works;
(iii)   the agreements between AUEA and the Government specifying the rights
and duties of both parties should be signed before the rehabilitation works
are completed;
(iv)   flexibility is an important factor in the design of SMSI projects;
(v)    a well designed and staffed monitoring unit is instrumental in implementing
a decentralized project;
(vi)   continuity of capable project management at both central and regional levels
is a crucial factor for project success;
(vii)  in support services, necessary efforts should be dedicated to efficient use
of water at farm level;
(viii)  to overcome the rigid traditional water rights for optimal water resources
allocation, SMSI projects should encourage the development of a water
rights rental market;
(ix)    SMSI projects should exploit the considerable amount of hydrological and
geohydrological data of the Hydraulic Administration for assessment and
planning of water resources available for irrigation schemes;
(x)    More effort is required to convince Authorities in gathering adequate socio-
economic data in order to monitor and evaluate project benefits.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2253-MOR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name           Small and Medium-Scale Irrigation Project
Credit No.       .    Loan 2253-MOR
RVP Unit               MENA Region
Country          :     Morocco
Sector                 Agriculture
Sub-sector       .    Irrigation
2. Background
Economilc Context
2.1        The Small and Medium-Scale Irrigation (SMSI) project was conceived in the late
1970s, at a time when the relative importance of agriculture in the Moroccan economy in terms
of production, export and employment had declined while other sectors had grown more rapidly.
The value of agricultural output had increased at an average annual rate of 2.4% (in constant
prices) during the preceding fifteen years, a lower rate than in the other sectors of the economy
and less than the growth of demand for agricultural products, which led to a rapid increase in
imports. The average growth of agricultural imports during the period 1978-1980 was 20% (in
value), while agricultural exports expanded at 15% per annum. The agricultural trade balance
therefore deteriorated, with the ratio of exports to imports having declined from about 130% at
the beginning of the 1970s to 70% in 1980.



-2 -
Policy Context
2.2        To counteract the disappointing performance of the agricultural sector, the
Government decided to include a remedial strategy in the 1981-1985 Development Plan, the
main points of which were, inter alia: (i) to increase the share devoted to agriculture in the
public investment programme; (ii) to increase public investment in the rainfed sector and in
small and medium irrigation schemes; (iii) to establish a price policy that would ensure equitable
returns to the farmer and stimulate import substitution for the basic foodstuffs; (iv) to expand
the role and lending programme of the National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA). That strategy
was in line with the Bank's recommendations for the sector. Also, the increased emphasis on
small and medium-scale irrigation reflected the general recognition that this subsector had been
relatively neglected in the past and offered an opportunity for substantial increases in agricultural
production. Annual investments in SMSI were projected to increase fivefold under the Plan.
Macro-Economic Situation During Project Implementation
2.3        The project was declared effective in January 1984, at a time when the country was
in the midst of a severe financial crisis. Beginning in early 1983, Morocco's financial situation
deteriorated rapidly and net foreign assets declined sharply, prompting the Government to
impose emergency restrictions and massively curtail public expenditure. A set of extensive
stabilization and adjustment policies were drawn up by the Government and supported by a
series of three IMF standby arrangements and World Bank structural adjustment loans.
Substantial improvements were achieved through these operations, but at the expense of a drastic
reduction in public investment, thus affecting most projects, including World Bank-supported
projects like the SMSI project.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        The central objective of the SMSI was to establish a systematic approach to the
development of the neglected sub-sector of the small and medium-scale irrigation schemes.
Morocco has considerable potential for increasing agricultural diversification, yields, production
and income on lands that could aggregate to several thousand hectares through the rehabilitation
of degraded SMSI schemes and the creation of new ones. These schemes are widely distributed
throughout the country and exploitation of their potential could help meet food deficits in various
highly-populated urban areas as well as improve the standard of living of small farmers in
poverty stricken rural areas.
3.2        The systematic approach implied (i) the creation of a viable legal framework, (ii)
the design and implementation of workable arrangements for farmers' responsibility in operation,
maintenance and cost recovery of the irrigation systems, and (iii) the building up of SMSI
experience in the Provincial Directorates of Agriculture (DPA) of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Agrarian Reform (MARA). This approach was to be established through the development
of five specific SMSI schemes and the preparation of a second-stage project.



- 3 -
3.3        At appraisal, the project consisted of the following main components:
(i)    *  Irrigation infrastructure for (a) the rehabilitation of three traditional
schemes (Souss, Chichaoua and Ghiss) and (b) the establishment of
two new schemes (Middle Sebou and Jemaa Sahim).
*  Souss. The deteriorated traditional earth channel ("seguias") network
of the scheme, which is constituted of 12 sectors totalling 9,650 ha,
would be replaced by about 125 km of concrete primary and
secondary canals, following the same layout of the traditional
network. Existing concrete-line canals would also be rehabilitated.
The scheme's water resources, which relied entirely on stream
resurgences now dried up, would be provided by 13 wells and about
60 tubewells through 25 pumping stations. The installation of about
53 km of power supply lines and the improvement of about 60 km of
unsurfaced roads would complete the infrastructure.
*  Chichaoua. The rehabilitation of this spring-fed scheme of 1,900 ha
would include the lining of 57 km of deteriorated primary and
secondary canals, the construction of two syphons, a drainage network
and erosion control works. About 56 km of unsurfaced roads would
also be rehabilitated.
*  Ghiss. The rehabilitation of this river-fed traditional scheme would
include: the construction of about 52 km of concrete-lined canals to
replace the deteriorated network on the existing 780 ha and to serve
an extension of 140 ha, a total of 920 ha; the construction of a new
diversion weir on the Ghiss river and a conveyance canal of 4 km;
subsurface drainage on 400 ha of heavy soils; a collector to divert
excess rainwater and drainage water to the Mediterranean; flood
protection dikes and an interconnector canal to divert excess water of
the Ghiss river into the Nekor irrigation scheme.
*  Jemaa Sahim. This new sprinkler-irrigation scheme of 410 ha, to be
supplied by the existing Safi canal, would be equipped with a
pumping station with a rated capacity of 400 I/s, about 14 km of
underground pipes and mobile sprinklers.
* Middle Sebou. This new gravity scheme of 4,870 ha would be
constituted of 28 sectors to be supplied by 5 first-stage and 6 second-
stage pumping stations lifting water from the Sebou river, with an
aggregate flow of about 6,000 1/s.
(ii)       Support activities. The concerned Regional Office for Agricultural
Development for Souss-Massa (ORMVASM) in charge of the Souss



scheme, the DPAs of Marrakech, Al Hoceima, Safi and Fes in charge
of the Chichaoua, Ghiss, Jemaa Sahim and Middle Sebou schemes
respectively, and to the Central Management Unit (CMU) would be
strengthened and equipped. This would include the construction and
equipping of staff houses, centres for livestock development, artificial
insemination, milk collection, extension work, and livestock breeding,
as well as equipment and vehicles. Technical assistance would also
be provided to support the irrigation infrastructure implementation and
on-farm development. It would consist of short-term and long-term
consultant services  in  equipment procurement,  construction
supervision and farm mechanization. Overseas and local training,
supplementary implementation studies and initial operating costs
would also be provided.
(iii)      On-farm development. Crop and livestock development investments
and short-term inputs would be financed by credit.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1        The substantial changes in irrigation development policy introduced by the
Government under the 1981-1985 Development Plan have provided the basis for the project
design. Government objectives have shifted from the considerable support to the large-scale
irrigation sector during the seventies, to emphasis on the development of small and medium-scale
irrigation schemes for their lower costs per hectare and more rapid build-up of benefits,
increased recovery of operation/maintenance and investment costs from farmers, and reduction
of social and regional income disparities through investment and employment creation in
depressed areas. The project was well designed as it has contributed substantially to the
implementation of this policy. The systematic approach adopted by the project, which involved
a legal framework for the creation of water user associations responsible for operation and
maintenance of networks and for cost recovery, and the building up of SMSI experience in
MARA, has laid the foundation for long-term development of the sub-sector. A follow-up
operation, the Second SMSI project, appraised by the Bank in May 1987, is now being
implemented.
4.2        The irrigation infrastructure, the main project component, was composed of five
sub-components corresponding to as many SMSI schemes, located in various socially and
environmentally diverse regions of the country. The component diversification enabled the
project to capitalize experience in SMSI and its flexibility allowed necessary adjustments. Due
to budget constraints (para 5.1), the new and modem scheme of Middle Sebou was cancelled
at the early stage of the project without altering the project central objective. Based on existing
engineering studies, the irrigation infrastructures of the four remaining schemes are well
designed. In the Souss, the capacities of a number of new tubewells had been a matter of
concern as they fell short of expected yields. The ORMVASM, with adequate assistance from
the Regional Directorate of Hydraulics, has efficiently solved this groundwater exploitation



problem. However, water resources' evaluation in the Ghiss river, carried out during preparation
and at appraisal, and based on very short hydrological records, was over-optimistic for the low
flow season.
4.3        Responsibility for project implementation was entrusted to the Directorate of Rural
Equipment (DER) under the overall coordination of a Project Coordination Committee (PCC),
which included representatives of the main directorates, ministries and agencies involved.
Monitoring, coordination and reporting of project activities was to be provided by the CMU
established within DER's Division of Rural Development, and evaluation by MARA's
Directorate of Planning and Economic Affairs (DPAE). Day-to-day implementation of irrigation
infrastructure and support activities was entrusted to the construction divisions of ORMVASM
and the DPAs. The project organization was well designed and has fulfilled its role.
5. Project Implementation
General
5.1        The project was approved in March 1983 and signed in June 1983, but did not
become effective until January 1984. The closing date, initially planned for end
December 1989", was delayed by three years to end December 1992. Due to the difficult
budgetary situation faced by the country at that time, progress was initially very slow, in spite
of frequent and insistent World Bank Supervision Mission requests. During the first four years
(1983-1987) of the project, total expenditures amounted to less than 20% of total project costs.
In March 1985, under the Special Action Programme (SAP), the project implementation schedule
was modified and the disbursement rate for civil works was increased from 40 to 60%. A second
amendment to the Loan Agreement, signed in 1987, stipulated: (a) to restructure the project by
cancelling the Middle Sebou sub-project and by extending the total length of irrigation canals
to be rehabilitated in the Souss perimeter from 125 to 300 km; (b) to extend the applicability of
the disbursement percentage increase under the SAP to the project closing date, and (c) to cancel
an amount of US$ 8 million from the loan. Furthermore, an agreement was reached between the
Government and the World Bank on financing procedures (special account and direct payment)
that would enable speeding up of implementation of the project components. The rates of
disbursement increased substantially from 1988, and in a five-year period about 80% of the total
project cost was disbursed. In spite of the three-year extension of the project, however, and the
more efficient financing procedures introduced in 1987, an additional US$ 3.2 million was
cancelled at the closure of the project.
Main Components
5.2        Irrigation. Implementation of the irrigation infrastructure was hampered by the
long and slow bidding and contract award procedures, resulting mainly from the above-
" The Staff Appraisal Report Cost Tables present a five-year schedule (1983-1987) whereas the Schedule of
Disbursements starts from FY 1984 and ends in FY 1989.



mentioned country budget situation. The Souss scheme rehabilitation, which was initiated in
1983 as planned, was suspended in 1984 and 1985 due to budget restrictions. It was
subsequently further delayed by the poor performance of a tubewell contractor, thus stalling
implementation of the pumping stations. Meanwhile, construction of the distribution systems was
proceeding satisfactorily. One of the principal sectors of the scheme, with an area of 3,550 ha,
was first irrigated in July 1991. The entire scheme, including the additional 135 km of roads,
was completed in mid 1993 instead of end 1987 as planned. The Chichaoua, Jemaa Sahim and
Ghiss schemes were planned to be initiated in 1983 and completed by the end of 1987. They
were practically completed and operational in September 1989, June 1990 and May 1991,
respectively. However, some minor works on bank protection at Chichaoua and supplementary
protection of the head canal and diversion structure in the Ghiss were achieved only in 1992.
5.3        Broadly speaking, the planned physical targets were met or even exceeded (Table
4). Hence, total irrigated area amounted to 13,426 ha compared with 17,800 ha as planned at
appraisal. This was mainly due to the exclusion of the Middle Sebou scheme (4,865 ha). A few
other discrepancies have occurred, such as in the "road improvement" component in the Souss
sub-project (192 km instead of 60 km) and in the Chichaoua sub-project (21 km instead of 56
km); in the "primary canal" of the Ghiss sub-project (8.6 km instead of 7.8 km) and in the
"power supply line" in the Jemaa Sahim sub-project (0.23 km instead of 3 km). The main
reasons for these, according to the Project Management, is that a few estimates made during
preparation had to be corrected during implementation on the basis of the detailed design bills
of quantities. Other reasons may also be given, such as the amendment to the Loan Agreement
in which the length of the irrigation canals of the Souss scheme was increased from 125 to
300 km, and also created the need for an increased length of roads to maintain the primary
canals or the construction after appraisal of a new power line to supply a village close to the
pumping stations of the Jemaa Sahim scheme.
5.4        Support activities. Notwithstanding the budgetary and administrative difficulties,
the early implementation of support activities to strengthen the CMU, the ORMVASM and the
DPAs has enabled a high standard of construction of the irrigation infrastructure to be secured.
An important factor contributing to the success of the project has been a general continuity in
staffing at the CMU as well as at the ORMVASM and DPAs till the project completion. A few
key problems in civil construction were actually solved with the help of Bank supervision
missions. Support activities for introduction of on-farm investments, cropping patterns and
irrigation techniques were provided late. The programme was partially cancelled in order to use
the limited budget resources available to complete the irrigation infrastructure. Hence, in the
Souss scheme, the planned houses, offices and other buildings have not been constructed.
However, support activities have benefited from facilities financed by other projects (Large Scale
Irrigation and Research and Extension Projects, etc.).
5.5        On-farm development. On-farm investments were delayed consequent to the delays
in completing the irrigation infrastructures. At appraisal, it had been planned that they would
include: animal traction equipment, orchards, purchase of in-calf heifers and construction of
stables for a total cost of US$ 1.2 million, to be financed through credit or by self-financing.
Local technicians have noted that some farmers have purchased motorized as well as animal



- 7 -
traction equipment and upgraded cattle, have constructed stables and have established orchards;
they are nevertheless unable to quantify these investments. The project monitoring and evaluation
system has not recorded the on-farm investments and as the National Agricultural Credit Bank
(CNCA) accounts do not permit to distinguish the loans attributed to farmers cropping within
the four schemes, there are no data available as far as on-farm development is concerned.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.6        Day-to-day monitoring, coordination and reporting of project activity as well as
evaluation of project implementation, agricultural production, and cost recovery was planned to
be done by the CMU which had been established within DER. It was also planned to entrust to
the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of DPAE the responsibility for implementing an economic
and social baseline survey of the sub-project areas and for monitoring and evaluating project
benefits. CMU performed very well; it monitored project activities, supervised DPA's and
ORMVASM's implementation works and prepared quarterly reports on time. Nevertheless, data
on agricultural production were not collected by DPAs and ORMVASM because agricultural
development started only recently and first priority was not given to that task. The monitoring
and evaluation of the project benefits, entrusted to DPAE, is up to now unsatisfactory. The
economic and social baseline surveys in the Ghiss and Chichaoua schemes, started in 1987, are
reportedly to be finalized soon. The Souss baseline survey, initiated in 1991-1992, should be
completed in the following months. DPAE is presently in the process of defining a monitoring
and evaluation methodology. It has also recently been strengthened in order to be able to
evaluate the benefits of agricultural projects. It should nevertheless be questioned whether
DPAE, even with strengthened resources, will ever be in a position to evaluate the benefits of
a large number of projects implemented simultaneously.
Studies, Technical Assistance and Training
5.7        The Service for General Studies attached to DER carried out the second-stage SMSI
project preparation in close collaboration with the FAO/CP. The preparation did not require any
assistance of a consultant in rural engineering although 4 man-months had been planned for that
purpose in SMSI 1; the Laboratoire public des etudes et essais (LPEE) was nevertheless granted
contracts for supervising geotechnical works as well as the first tranche of works for SMSI-II
(para 5.8).
5.8        Technical assistance was planned to consist of 12 m/m of short-term experts (5 m/m
in electro-mechanical engineering, 3 m/m in farm machinery and 4 m/m for the above-mentioned
consultant in rural engineering) and 48 m/m of long-term experts (24 m/m in civil engineering,
12 m/m in electro-mechanical engineering and 12 mlm in agricultural extension), not taking into
account Middle Sebou requirements. However, the project was implemented without any
intervention of consultants. Main reasons seem to be that (i) alternative solutions were identified
by the project management: tender documents for Jemaa Sahim and Souss were prepared by the
local consulting firms in charge of preparing detailed designs; use of LPEE for the control of
complex works; use of ORMVASM expertise to control complex electro-mechanical works and
use of the facilities provided under the World Bank financed Research and Extension project to



- 8 -
strengthen the extension services; (ii) the project management did not give high priority to the
recruitment of consultants; (iii) local procedures for the recruitment of consultants are
cumbersome. It should nevertheless be noted that the contribution of specialists in farm
mechanization and in extension would have been useful to better serve the farmers. That
comment is also valid as far as the training of the extensionists is concerned. The SAR had
planned to send four extension trainers overseas for a three-month training period, but this was
substituted by a local one week refresher course.
Management
5.9        The project was implemented, as foreseen at appraisal, under the general authority
of the Directorate of Rural Equipment. The ORMVASM and the DPAs of Al Hoceima,
Marrakech and Safi were the respective implementing agencies for the Souss, Ghiss, Chichaoua
and Jemaa Sahim sub-projects. The Project Coordination Committee established in 1983 met
only once, owing to the fact that since the project design was simple, the management did not
encounter national coordination problems which would have required the meeting of the PCC.
On the other hand, the Regional Sub-project Coordination Committees, also established in 1983,
met regularly once or twice a year and were instrumental in solving coordination problems.
Risks
5.10       The SAR identified two of the main risks which could affect a successful outcome
of project implementation: (i) the formation of Water Users' Associations (AUEA) and their
management; (ii) a possible shortfall in Government budgetary financing, which could delay
implementation and adversely affect costs and benefits. In actual fact, the project implementation
was severely constrained by the lack of financing in spite of the frequent interventions of the
World Bank. Due to the fact that on average, schemes were put into operation with a delay of
three years and that the project started by establishing "de facto" associations, the very long
delay in revising the 1924 ASAP Law regarding AUEA has been less detrimental than it could
have been. On the other hand, the SAR did not mention water availability as a possible
constraint when in fact there is a risk that there may not be enough water for the Ghiss scheme
and, later, for the Souss one.
Project Cost
5.11       The project cost was originally  estimated at around DH  325 million
(US$ 57.5 milion), not taking into account the Middle Sebou sub-project cancelled in 1987. The
actual cost is estimated at around DH 448 million (US$ 53.8 million) or in DH and US$ terms,
138% and 94% of the estimate respectively. The large difference between the DH and US$ rates
resulted from the significant appreciation of the US$ versus the Dirham during project
implementation (DH 6.00 per US$ at appraisal and on average DH 8.8 per US$ at
implementation). Taking into account that many support activities in the Souss and Ghiss sub-
projects were not financed by the project, that on-farm investments were not recorded and that
the total length of irrigation canals to be rehabilitated under the Souss sub-project was increased



- 9 -
from 125 to 300 km, it can be concluded that total project costs are close to the appraisal
estimates. Hence, actual unit costs per ha expressed in 1993 constant prices, including support
costs, vary from US$ 3,054 for the Chichaoua sub-project to US$ 8,707 for the Jemaa Sahim
sub-project. At appraisal, they had been estimated to vary from US$ 2,420 to 8,530.
6. Project Results
Water Availability
6.1        Water availability to farms following the project implementation varies from one
sub-project to another, depending on the water sources. The water balance in the four schemes
is presented in Table 6.A. The new and modem Jemaa Sahim scheme, with an irrigation area
of 443 ha (planned area: 410 ha), has an exceptionally guaranteed water source as it can draw
a maximum permanent flow of 300 1/s from the existing Safi canal, which is an extension of the
Doukkala canal and the source of municipal and industrial supply of the city of Safi. The fixed
maximum water allocation provides an average excess of about 50% but just meets water
requirements in the peak demand month (July). Water transfer from the canal to the sprinkler-
irrigation scheme is provided by a pumping station with a rated capacity of 400 l/s (4 pumps of
100 l/s). During peak demand season, the scheme is operating at about 90% of its capacity. This
could be considered as a good performance for a new scheme where farmers have not yet
acquired long experience in irrigation.
6.2        For the three traditional schemes (Souss, Chichaoua and Ghiss) rehabilitated by the
project, the common feature in water availability is a considerable reduction of water losses
along the irrigation networks. The corresponding gain in water availability would be equal to
or higher than 25% to 45% as estimated at appraisal. The Chichaoua scheme, which is fed by
several permanent springs surging from the northern piedmont of the Atlas Mountains, has had
adequate water supply, even during the severe droughts of 1991-92 and 1992-93. Resulting from
the important reduction of water losses in the distribution networks, water available at the plots
has increased substantially over the whole scheme and farmers are requesting an extension of
the rehabilitation works to downstream areas. However, the study in irrigation techniques,
carried out by DER's Service for Irrigation Research", has shown that water distribution which
is still applying the strict traditional water rights, is far from optimum: as water losses in the
distribution network have been reduced, downstream plots are now adequately supplied but
upstream plots are still being oversupplied. It seems that water resources misused in the
upstream areas could be reallocated for further extension of the scheme, but it is well-known that
it would be difficult to change traditional water rights. A more efficient water allocation system
for better use of water resources would need the development of a water rights rental market.
6.3        The Souss scheme used to be irrigated by the diversion of stream resurgences. Prior
to project implementation, much of the area was under rainfed cultivation as resurgences have
DER. Service des Experimentations d'hydraulique agricole. Amdlioration des techniques d'irrigation dans les
perimatres PMH. Rapport de synthese et programme d'action. Septembre 1991.



- 10 -
gradually disappeared, following continuous drawdown of the valley water table. Water
resources provided by the 76 tubewells and wells constructed by the project would fully cover
the projected water demands of the 12 sectors of the scheme, with a total irrigated area of
10,160 ha (planned area: 9,650 ha), except for one sector where the slight water shortage could
be managed by increasing pumping time to about 22 hours/day during peak demand season. The
important issue of long-term water availability for the scheme through pumping from the
overexploited Souss aquifer is discussed under Project Sustainability (para 7.2).
6.4        Water resources for the Ghiss scheme would be provided by a weir diverting the
Ghiss river flow. At appraisal, the average river flow available for water supply of the scheme
during the critical month of summer irrigation (July) was estimated at 350 l/s, resulting in an
average deficit of about 50 1/s in relation to water demand, which was considered manageable.
This estimation was based on a very short (8 years) hydrological record of a station which was
later considered unreliable and consequently abandoned in 1973. According to the hydrological
simulations of Ghiss river carried out recently by the Directorate of Water Resources in the
framework of the preparation of the Regional Water Master Plan", available flow for summer
irrigation diversion would amount, on average, to about 50% to 60% of flow estimated at
appraisal. Projected land use and cropping intensity in the Ghiss scheme would have to be
adjusted accordingly. According to the same hydrological simulation, the planned transfer of
water resources from the Ghiss river to the Nekor scheme would only be feasible, on average,
once every two years.
Support Services
6.5        Support activities were designed for servicing the two other main components of
the project, irrigation infrastructure construction and on-farm development. As such, support
services have essentially fulfilled their role. Notwithstanding the already mentioned budgetary
and administrative constraints, the CMU, ORMVASM and DPAs have carried out the necessary
engineering studies and detailed designs of civil works and efficiently managed 117 contracts for
civil works construction, equipment procurement and services. Supervision was also satisfactory
as the irrigation infrastructure can be qualified as of high standard. The damages to the
infrastructure resulting from the heavy floods of 1989 at the Ghiss and Chichaoua schemes have
been repaired adequately.
6.6        Extension Centres were established or strengthened in each of the schemes and
farmers have reported that the number of extensionists is adequate. On the other hand, improved
irrigation techniques and improved small-scale farm machinery and equipment are not yet
available for dissemination due to the cancellation of or delay in carrying out the planned
studies.
" According to the simulation results, out of every 10-year period, the discharge of Chiss river in July would
be nil for 3 years, less or equal to 200 I/s for 2 years and higher than 400 I/s for 5 years. Ministare des
travaux publics, de la formation professionnelle et de la formation des cadres. Administration de l'hydraulique.
Plan directeur de l'am6nagement des bassins Loukkos, Tangerois et Cotiers mediterraneens. Analyse des
6coulements de l'oued Rhiss. Juin 1993.



Agricultural Development
6.7        The actual cropping patterns show clearly that farmers react quickly to market
opportunities as soon as water is available. Farmers then give preference to citrus, olives,
sugarbeet, alfalfa, vegetables and grain legumes, the returns of which are quite attractive.
Farmers' interest in orchards is well known, but the SAR planned cropping pattern had
nevertheless not anticipated the importance of the new orchards which would be established. Up
to the present, farmers have already planted 1,640 ha of new orchards and soon they envisage
planting another 600 ha. The area planted to alfalfa should also exceed the SAR planned figure,
as well as those of sugarbeet and grain legumes. On the other hand, cereals, maize and winter
forage are likely to be less cropped than envisaged at appraisal (Table 6.B). Furthermore, on
the basis of present yields, there is clear evidence that appraisal yield estimates are conservative
and will probably be exceeded at full development. As a result of the revised cropping patterns
and yields, production of citrus, sugarbeet, olives and alfalfa is likely to considerably exceed the
SAR estimates. On the other hand, maize and winter forage production may be lower than
anticipated.
Water Users' Associations
6.8        The constitution of Water Users' Associations in all four sub-project areas and as
specified at appraisal, could be considered as one of the most important accomplishments of the
project, in spite of the delays, due essentially to numerous administrative and legal hurdles.
Moreover, creation of defacto associations, prior to the promulgation of the law in December
1990 and publication of the application decree in May 1992, has allowed the project, since the
early stage of operation of the schemes, to gradually entrust responsibility for their operation and
maintenance to the water users. In the Souss, 21 associations with a total of 5,504 members have
been created, covering the 21 irrigation sectors of the scheme. In Chichaoua, 13 associations
with 1642 members have taken over the responsibility of operation and maintenance of the
rehabilitated scheme. The new Jemaa Sahim scheme, which has a unique water source, the
pumping station supplying the whole sprinkler system, has only one association grouping all
farmers of the scheme. In the Ghiss scheme, due the severe drought of two successive years
following the rehabilitation completion, farmers have not yet benefited from the projected water
resource improvement, mainly for summer irrigation; two out of three associations have been
formally created. All associations are being converted to a de jure basis and agreements between
the administration and the associations are being drawn up following the new legislation.
6.9       In the Souss and Jemaa Sahim schemes, which are supplied by pumping, the
associations signed contracts with ONE for the power supply to the pumping stations. Funds for
payment of operation expenses have been set up at Chichaoua, Jemaa Sahim and the Ghiss. In
the Souss, farmers pay the AUEA in advance for water at about 0.30 DH/m3 (sufficient to cover
the costs of energy and direct operating expenses). In spite of all the achievements, much
remains to be done to arrive at full responsibility of the water users' associations for operation
and maintenance of the irrigation systems. This is particularly so for the two pumping schemes



-12 -
where the equipment is relatively sophisticated. The administration will need to continue to
provide technical supervision for some time while the AUEA build experience and train their
own personnel.
6.10       In spite of the fact that DER staff are still convinced that farmers should pay the
total amount of the operation and maintenance costs and a fair percentage of the investment costs
of the irrigation infrastructure, their present position is quite pragmatic and flexible. Each
scheme has been studied separately and specific solutions proposed. In the case of Chichaoua
and Ghiss, the farmers' participation in investment costs has been set at 10% and recovery
should not be a problem. However, to help provide for the longer-term heavier maintenance
items, MARA is discussing with the Ministry of Finance the possibility of this participation
being retained rather than disappearing into the state treasury. On the other hand, the pumping
stations of the Souss and Jemaa Sahim schemes will have to be replaced regularly and it is not
yet clear whether the farmers will accept or, indeed, be able to pay in full the 0 & M cost plus
an adequate allowance for depreciation. In these two cases, MARA's view is that the farmers
should not be asked to reimburse the state, but instead they should build up a revolving fund to
cover the eventual cost of pump replacement. The DPA and ORMVASM are advising the
AUEAs to gradually increase charges for this purpose.
Economic Returns
6.11       Although project impact data were not collected by the DPAE and the CMU, the
mission working with DPA and ORMVASM staff was able to roughly estimate the "present" and
'at full development" agricultural production (Annex 2). Nevertheless, data were not detailed
enough to make reasonable estimates of the "Without" and "With Project" situations of some
farm models. Global data related to the entirety of each of the four schemes were utilized to
present the "without project", "actual" and "at full development" situations. As the baseline
surveys of the four schemes have not yet been completed (para 5.6) the SAR data were used to
estimate the "Without Project" situation.
6.12       The estimated actual Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is slightly lower (13.5%
instead of 15%) than anticipated at appraisal (Part III, Table 6.C). This results from the fact that
the viability of the Ghiss sub-project is very low (4%) due to the limited water resources and
that the ERR of the Jemaa Sahim sub-project is marginal (9%) due to the high per ha investment
costs and to some delays in completion and intensive use of the irrigation infrastructure.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1        With the exception of the Ghiss scheme, the principal components of the project,
which are the irrigation schemes, are likely to maintain an acceptable level of benefits
throughout their economic life. Both the rehabilitated traditional schemes and the new one are
expected to be correctly operated and maintained as farmers appreciate the value of irrigation
water and are contributing substantially to the operation and maintenance costs. It will



- 13 -
nevertheless be necessary to fix, as soon as possible, in agreement with the AUEAs in each of
the four schemes, the water charges at a level which would cover the total amount of the 0 &
M costs including in Jemaa Sahim and Souss adequate allowances for depreciation plus, if
possible, a reasonable percentage of the investment costs of the irrigation infrastructure.
7.2        In relation to the groundwater resources sustainability in the Souss valley on which
would depend the sustainability of the Souss scheme, assurances were obtained for an action
programme to implement the 1981 decree for control of private pumping in the Souss aquifer.
The water balance of the Souss aquifer can be summarized as follows"'. The total non-
renewable reserve of the aquifer is estimated at 40,000 million m3. Between 1969 and 1991,
there was an overexploitation of about 2,500 million m3 (average: 110 million m3/year) from this
reserve, resulting in a total drawdown of the water table of 10 to 35 m in the central part and
of 5 to 10 m in other areas. Current annual drawdown varies from 0.5 to 2 m around the
Taroudant area and from 1 to 3 m in the Guerdane area. However, downstream of the Aoulouz
dam and in the surface water irrigation scheme of Issen, recharge water and return flow have
increased the water table by 0.5 to 1.5 m annually. Even with the strict control of private
pumping, it is estimated that there would be an extension of private irrigation of about 250
ha/year. This extension would correspond to an additional, albeit marginal, stress on the aquifer
of about 2 million m3/year. Water requirements of the Souss scheme rehabilitated by the project
would amount to a net withdrawal of 70 million m3/year (Table 6.A), which corresponds, for
the whole project life, to about 2,000 million m3 or 5 % of the total aquifer reserve. As the Souss
aquifer would have an annual deficit of about 100 to 200 million m3, depending on rainfall, there
would be a continuous drawdown of the water table. Water resources availability for the Souss
scheme would not be an issue for its sustainability but pumping costs would increase
continuously and would have to be taken into account.
8. Bank Performance
8.1        Bank performance in preparation and appraisal was satisfactory, taking into account
that this project was the first Bank investment in the SMSI sub-sector. Nevertheless the main
risks could have been more accurately assessed (para 5.10). Supervision missions visited the
project frequently and regularly (on average every six months) with good staff continuity. They
were well staffed from the technical standpoint and were able to make significant contributions
to the implementation of the project: design of the repairs to the damaged works in Chichaoua
and Ghiss following the severe flood of 1989, water resources analysis of the Souss aquifer,
investment costs recovery analysis, etc. Furthermore, the supervision missions acquired a good
understanding of the project's implementation problems and assisted in overcoming some of the
most salient implementation constraints, particularly the lack of financing. This was highly
appreciated by project staff.
" Ministere des Travaux publics de la formation professionnelle et de la formation des cadres. Administration
de l'hydraulique. Direction de la rdgion hydraulique du Souss-Massa et Draa/Agadir. Etat d'etiage de la nappe
du Souss. Juin 1993.



- 14 -
8.2        The Bank proved responsive and flexible in restructuring the project scope in the
light of the budgetary constraints and in undertaking a Special Action Programme. A total of
US$ 11.2 million was cancelled from the original loan and the project was extended by three
years. On the other hand, the Bank should perhaps have insisted more on the hiring of
consultants and on the undertaking of the baseline surveys and the evaluation of the project
benefits.
9. Borrower's Performance
9.1        It should be pointed out that MARA pursued the project's objectives with as much
resolution as the Bank. A competent staff was assigned to the project during the whole
implementation period both at central and regional levels. Competence and continuity of project
management certainly made a significant contribution to the project's success.
9.2        On the other side, Government did not provide adequate funding for the project,
thus inducing considerable delays in project implementation. The practice of allocating a certain
budget amount but without committing the required funds to the project every year to cover
expenditures also had a negative impact on project implementation as it led in many instances
to the slowing down or abandonment of project works by the contractors. However, these facts
should be seen in the light of the general, severe public finance situation of Morocco in those
years. Other weaknesses on the part of the borrower relate to its reluctance to mobilize
international consultants that could have strengthened the support services to farmers, and to
DPAE delays in implementing the baseline surveys and in evaluating project benefits.
10. Lessons Learned
10.1       Experience with this project shows that:
(i)        the establishment of Water Users' Associations (AUEA) seems to be
a correct approach to the problem of operation and maintenance of
irrigation schemes;
(ii)        AUEA should be established at a time when the beneficiaries could
influence the final design of the rehabilitation works;
(iii)       the agreements between AUEA and the Government specifying the
rights and duties of both parties should be signed before the
rehabilitation works are started;
(iv)         flexibility is an important factor in the design of SMSI projects;
(v)         a well designed and staffed monitoring unit is instrumental in
implementing a decentralized project;



- 15 -
(vi)        continuity of capable project management at both central and regional
levels is a crucial factor in project success;
(vii)        in support services, necessary efforts should be dedicated to efficient
use of water at farm level;
(viii)       to overcome the rigid traditional water rights for optimal water
resources allocation, SMSI projects should encourage the development
of a water rights rental market;
(ix)        Future SMSI projects should exploit the considerable amount of
hydrological and geohydrological data of the Hydraulic Administration
for assessment and planning of water resources available for irrigation
schemes.
11. Project Relationships
11.1      The relationship between the Bank and the Moroccan authorities was excellent
during the whole project. The recommendations made by the frequent supervision missions were
generally considered useful and followed by concrete actions.
12. Consulting Services
12.1      Detailed designs for irrigation infrastructure and related works were completed
satisfactorily by local consulting firms without any assistance from international consultants. In
fact, none of the 99 man-months designated for short-term and long-term specialists was used
(paras 5.7 and 5.8). Moreover, the preparation of the SMSI Second Phase project was carried
out by the DER "Service des etudes generales" with the assistance of FAO/CP (Part III, Table
6.D).
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1      The Preparation Report and the SAR proved to be useful during project
implementation. The involvement of DER staff in project preparation and appraisal greatly
contributed to the understanding of the loan agreement and the appraisal document.
13.2      From 1984 to 1992, the CMU prepared quarterly progress reports following a
standard presentation agreed with the Bank. The CMU collected basic data for the last
supervision mission to help in preparation of the Project Completion Report. However, DPAE
did not collect or process data which would have permitted the preparation of a project impact
analysis and no information was available on the credit component implemented by CNCA.



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN 2253-MOR
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Translated from the Original French Version)
(a)    Verification of the data in Parts I and III:
As a whole, the data in Parts I and III are consistent with the data available to the Irrigation
Development Department, with the exception of the figures on p.6, para.5.3., regarding the area
covered by the Middle Sebou subproject (4,865 ha instead of 410 ha) and the total length of the
primary canals (G and D + 1) for the Ghiss subproject (8.6 km instead of 13.4 km). These changes
have been made in the text.
(b)    Comments on Part I:
p.6. para. 5.4:
*     -lWith regard to the irrigation technique improvement component, the research and
demonstration studies began in October 1989, well before the completion of the improvement
works at the Chichaoua perimeter.
.7. para. 5.6 Monitoring and evaluation:
At the time of the project preparation, a monitoring and evaluation system for this type of
project had not been designed causing the delays experienced in the monitoring and evaluation of
project benefits, despite the efforts made by DPAE to conduct reference surveys on the Ghiss,
Chichaoua and Jemaa Shim [sic] schemes.
Finally, with a view to monitoring and evaluating this type of project, before project startup
an appropriate system must be devised with sufficient funding and, if necessary, the pertinent
technical assistance.
p2.7. para, 5.7:
-     Five contracts were awarded to LPEE, of which three for the supervision of
geotechnical works at the sites of water deviation works at Chichaoua and the first tranche of
works for the SMSI-II project.



- 17 -
R.10. para. 6.:
-      The number of contracts managed was 117 for the various components of the project.
p. 13. para.7. 1 [French Versionl:
-      At present, the users of irrigation at the four schemes are shouldering the entire
maintenance and operating cost. Beneficiary contribution of a minimum of 10% of the
investment cost is now being discussed with the Ghiss and Chichaoua irrigation associations.
With regard to the replacement of the electromechanical equipment at Souss and Jamaa
Sahim, responsibility for amortization costs for the equipment is now being studied on the
basis of the farmers' reimbursement capacity.
.p15. Rara. 10.1 (iii) [French versionl:
-     The agreements to be concluded with the water user associations must be finalized
before the start of competitive bidding for the rehabilitation works.
p.15. para.10.1 (ix):
-     The irrigation improvement studies for the SMSI-I schemes include all hydrological
and geohydrological data available at the regional level.
(c)    Performance of the Bank during project implementation:
During implementation of the Small and Medium-Scale Irrigation Project, Bank performance
was satisfactory. In point of fact, recognizing the difficulties of implementing such a project, the
Bank agreed to restructure and extend the project by three years.
The Bank played an active role in eliminating several constraints during project
implementation, as evidenced by the large number of missions it sent. The major constraint that was
resolved was that of budget reduction and the establishment of a working capital fund within the
7rdsorerie G{nerale du Royaume.
(d)    Performance of the Borrower during project implementation: The Government of Morocco
did its utmost to carry out the project successfully and considers that project implementation was
satisfactory overall.
The Government placed great importance on carrying out the project activities, given the
project's importance to the development of small and medium-scale irrigated farming.
The efforts made by the Government of Morocco can be summarized as follows:
-      mobilization of the maximum of available funds, despite the budget restrictions
adopted by the State during the period of project implementation;



- 18 -
-      allocation of competent high-level staff with the personnel necessary for project
execution;
-      organization of project management at the central and regional levels;
-       establishment of a coordination structure (committees) composed of the various
project players and beneficiaries (provencial committee and national committee);
-     promulgation of regulatory texts governing the organization of farmers on the various
irrigated schemes into water users' associations, to take on responsibility for maintenance and
operating cost with a certain level of participation in investment cost.
(e)    Relations between the Bank and Borrower:
Under the Small and Medium-Scale Irrigation Project, relations between the Government of
Morocco and the Bank were excellent at various levels, which facilitated implementation of the
project in question.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLMION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN 2253-MOR
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
Loan Number and Title   Year of              Purpose                Original      Status
Approval                                 Loan Amount
(USS million)
- Loan 2253-MOR             1983  Support the development of the        42.0        Closed
Small and Medium Scale           neglected Small and Medium Scale                December
Irrigation Project I             Irrigation Sub-sector through the                 1992
creation or rehabilitation of five
schemes and the preparation of a
second-stage project
- Loan 2590-MOR             1985  Support the first phase of           100.0        Closed
Agricultural Sector              implementation of the Government's.             June 1987
Adjustment Loan                  programme of adjustment in the
agricultural sector. The principal
objectives of the programme were to
improve the growth rate in
agriculture within the overall
constraints in public resources
- Loan 2656-MOR             1986  Support and complement the reform     46.0        Closed
Large Scale Irrigation           package agreed upon under the First             June 1993
Improvement Project              Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
with regard to the irrigation sub-
sector through the rehabilitation of
about 150,000 ha, the improvement
of operation and maintenancel
operations and the setting up of an
efficient management information
system
- Loan 2885-MOR             1988  Support the second phase of          225.0        Closed
Second Agricultural Sector       implementation of the Government's              April 1992
Adjustment Loan                  medium-term agricultural sector
adjustment programme within the
framework of a general
macroeconomic restructuring
programme. The essential objectives
were to foster efficient agricultural
growth and to contribute to the
reduction of budgetary and current
account deficits to manageable levels
- Loan 2954-MOR             1988  Finance a part of the Government's    23.0      On-going
Second Small and Medium          public investment programme in
Scale Irrigation Project         small and medium scale irrigation
during the 1988-92 Plan through the
renovation of about 120 traditional
irrigation schemes and the equipment
of seven spate irrigation repair
brigades to operate in poverty areas
in selected Southem Provinces
- Loan 3088-MOR             1989  Financing of activities of CNCA      190.0       Closed
Seventh Agricultural             from 1990 to 1993                               December
Credit Project                                                                     1993



- 20 -
Table 2. Project Timetable
Itemn                 Date Planned        Date Revised      Actual Date
- Reconnaissance              -                   -                April 1980
- Identification              -                    -               November 1980
- First Preparation Mission   -                   -                January 1981
- Final Preparation Mission   -                    -               February 1982
- Appraisal                  May 1982             -                May 1982
- Loan Negotiations          January 1983         -                January 1983
- Board Approval             March 1983           -                March 1983
- Loan Signature             June 1983             -               June 1983
- Loan Effectiveness                               -               January 1984
- Loan Closing               December 1989         -               December 1992



-  21  -
Table 3. Loan Disbursements
A. Cumulative Estimated Adjusted and Actual Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year   Appraisal       Adjusted        Actual    | % of Appraisal % of Adjusted
Semester Ending    Estimate       Estimate"                      Estimate        Estimate
FY 1984
December 1983          0.3             -              -               -              -
June 1984              2.8            0.4            0.36            13              90
FY 1985
December 1984          4.3            0.4            0.43            10             108
June 1985              6.7            0.9            0.87            13              97
FY 1986
December 1985          10.5           1.2            1.17            11              98
June 1986              16.1           1.5            1.50             9             100
FY 1987
December 1986         22.3            1.8            1.80             8             100
June 1987             27.5            2.9            2.91            11             100
FY 1988
December 1987         32.2            5.7            5.63            17              99
June 1988             36.1            8.0            6.64            18              83
FY 1989
December 1988         39.5           12.0            8.07            20              67
June 1989             42.0           15.5           12.10            29              78
FY 1990
December 1989           -            22.0           15.30            36              70
June 1990               -            24.0           16.71            40              70
FY 1991
December 1990           -            30.0           19.49            46              65
June 1991               -            34.0           22.29            53              66
FY 1992
December 1991           -              -            23.83            57              70
June 1992               -              -            27.80            66              82
FY 1993
December 1992           -              -            29.70            71              87
June 1993               -              -            30.81            73              91
" As of December 1987 after cancellation of US$ 8 million.



-  22  -
Table 3. Loan Disbursements
B. Planned and Actual Disbursements by Category
Category             Planned"       Revised'         Actual'     Actual as a %
l             l               I                  of Revised
. ........... (US$ million) .
1. Civil Works                   26.0           20.0           24.7            124
2. Equipment                      5.6            5.6             1.6            29
3. Civil Works and Equipment      4.2            4.2             3.2            76
for Power Supply
4. Consultants and Training       1.2            1.2             0.9            75
5. Fee                            0.3            0.3             0.3            100
6. Unallocated                    4.7            2.7             -               -
7. Fund                           -              -               0.1             -
Total                          42.0           34.0            30.8            91
" Loan Agreement of June 1983.
2/  Amendment to the Loan Agreement approved in June 1987.
31  Last disbursement made in May 1993 at which time the loan account was closed and the remaining balance
of US$ 3.2 million was cancelled.



-  23  -
Table 4. Project Implementation Ratio
(Key indicators)
Component                        Ulit    Planned SAR        Actual    Ratio Actual/Planned
I          I (or Revised)                          (%)
A. Irrigation Infrastructure
(a) Souss Sub-project
- Rehabilitation Area             ha         9,650          10,163              105
- Tubewells & Wells               U             73             75               103
- Pumping Stations                U             25             25               100
- Canal Network                  km            300            261                87
- Power Supply Line              km             53             45                85
- Road Improvement               km             60            192               320
(b) Ghiss Sub-project
- Rehabilitation Area             ha           920            920               100
- Diversion Weir                  U              1              1               100
- Conveyance Canal               km              4              4.2             105
- Primary Canal                  km              7.8           13.4             171
- Secondary & Tertiary Canals    km             39.6           48               121
- Soil Drainage Network          km            400            386                96
- Excess Rainwater Drainage      km             17             18               106
(c) Cbichaoua Sub-project
- Rehabilitation Area             ha         1,900           1,900              100
- Irrigation Network             km             57             43                75
- Syphons                         m            450            660               146
- Road Improvement               km             56             21                37
- River Intake                    U              -              3
(d) Jemaa Sahim Sub-project
- New Area Implemented            ha           410            443               108
- Pumping Station                 U              1              1               100
- Underground Pipe               km             14             16               114
- Power Supply Line              km              3              0.23              7
- Drainage Network               km              -             20.8
B. Support Activities"
- House, Offices                  U            125             17                14
- Milk Collection Centres         U              7              3                43
- Livestock Centres               U              7              4                57
- Breeding Stations               U             11              1                 9
- Artificial Insemination Centres  U             I              1               100
- Breeding Animals                U             22              2                 9
- Vehicles                        U             36             25                69
- Motorcycles                     U             72              8                11
- Technical Assistance           m/m            60               -
- Overseas Training             rn/m            35               -
- Local Training                 m/m            80             30                37
Excluding the Middle Sebou Sub-Project.



Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Breakdown of project costs by Loan Categories (n million DH)
Categories               1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   TOTAL                SAR*
SOUSS SUB-PROJECT
Irrigation Infrastructure    10.0    3.8      1.6    2.1    9.8   70.5   65.0    842    51.4    14.8         313.1      176.1
Support costs                 0.1    0.5    0.1    0.1        0.8     0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5           3.9      47.4
On-farm Investments                                                                                                       4.1
Sub-total                 10.1    4.3      1.6     2.2   10.6   71.0    65.4   84.7    51.9    152         317.0     227.6
GHISS SUB-PROJECT
Irrigation Infrastructure    0.0    0.0    16.4    10.2   17.4    4.6    4.3         1.6    1.1    0.9        56.6       34.8
Support costs                 0.0    0.0      1.0    0.6    0.3    0.4        0.3    0.0    0.1    0.1          2.8       6.1
On-farm Investments                                                                                                       0.6          I
Sub-total                  0.0    0.0    17.5    10.8    17.8    5.0    4.6        1.6     12      1.0      59.4      41.5
CHICHAOUA SUB-PROJECT
Irrigation Infrastructure    0.0    3.2    2.1       7.0    11.0    8.1      2.4    0.7      1.8    0.0       362        19.4
Support costs                 0.0     1.1     1.3    0.9    0.8    0.5    0.0    0.4    0.6          02         5.8       5.9
On-farm Investments                                                                                                       1.3
Sub-total                  0.0    4.3    3.4       7.9    11.8    8.6    2.4       1.1    2.4      02       42.0      26.6
JEMAA SAHIM SUB-PROJECT
Irrigation Infrastructure    0.0    0.2    4.6       6.7    4.3    3.0        12     02      0.3    2.3       22.8       13.8
Support costs                 0.0    0.6      12      0.2    0.4    0.4       1.2    02       0.5    0.9        5.6       5.5
On-farm Investments                                                                                                       0.7
Sub-total                  0.0    0.8    5.8    6.9    4.7    3.3    2.4    0.4    0.9             32       28.4      20.0
CENTRAL MANAGEMENT UNIT         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1        0.2     02      0.4    0.1    0.0    0.0          1.0       9.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         10.1    9.5   28.3   27.9   45.1   88.1   75.2   87.9   56.3   19.6    447.8              324.7
* Including physical and price contingencies



-  25  -
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
B. Project Financing
T      Planned      |       Actual
.             (US$ million).
IBRD                        42.0                 30.8
Govermment"                 56.4                 23.0
CNCA                         1.0                N.A.
Beneficiaries                2.2                N.A.
Total                     101.6                53.8
Estimated as balance of total project cost minus IBRD's contribution.



- 26 -
Table 6. Project Results
A. Water Balance
T   Water Demand     Water Resources
Ghiss (Irrigated Area: 920 ha)
Critical Month (July)
- Net at Plot                             260 I/s
- Gross at Headworks "                    400 I/s            220 I/s "
Annual
- Gross at Headworks                    8,700 m3/ha
- Total for Scheme                       8 mill. m3       60 mill. m3 2'
Chichaoua (irrigated Area: I,900 ha)
Critical Month (July)
- Net Demand at Plot                     565 I/s v
- Gross Demand at Headworks              940 I/s             1,100 I/s
Annual
- Gross at Headworks                  10,350 m3fha 3
- Total for Scheme                     19.7 mill. m3        35 mill. m3
Jemaa Sahim (Irrigated Area: 440 ha)
Critical Month (July)
- Net at Plot                            200 I/s 4
- Gross at Pumping Station 4/            300 I/s '            300 I/s
Annual
- Gross at Pumping Station              9,560 m3/ha
- Total for Scheme                      4.2 mnill. m3      7.9 mill. m3
Souss (Irrigated Area: 10,160 ha)
Critical Month (July)
- Net at Plot                           2,410 I/s 4'
- Gross at Pumping Station 4/           4,810 I/s '          4,570 I/s
Annual
- Gross at Pumping Station              9,480 m3/ha
- Total for Scheme                     96.3 mill. mn3     67.4 mill. m3n"
" Assuming field efficiency of 75%, conveyance efficiency of 85%.
2   On average, according to hydrological simulation.
3   Assuming field efficiency of 75%, conveyance efficiency of 80%.
41  Assuming 20-hour irrigation/pumping.
5' Assuming field efficiency of 85%, conveyance efficiency of 90%.
6/ Assuming field efficiency of 75%, conveyance efficiency of 80%.
7'  Net extraction from Souss aquifer.



Table 6. Project Results
B. Cropping Pattern, Yields and Production
Appraisal Estimate                                           Mission Estimates                        Full Devlopment as a % of
With Project Appraisal Estimate
Selected Crops            Before Project                  With Project                   Actual Situation             Full Development    Ajrea  I Yields I Production
Area  |Yields |Production   Area  |Yidds  | rdcin Area  |Yields  |Production   Area  |Yields |Production ........-- -. (%) . ..-..-..-..-
(ha)   (tons/ha)  ('000 tons)   (ha)    (tons/ha)  ('000 tons)   (ha)    (tons/ha)  ('000 tons)  (ha)   (tons/ha) ('000 tons)                        l
Cereals                4,550        1.0        4.6   3,800          2.9       11.0   2,350          2.5       5.9   3,170         3.2      10.1     83       110         92
Grain Legumes (Green)     40       4.0         0.2     230         13.0        3.0      270         5.0       1.4     430         7.0       3.0    187        54        100
Winter Vegetables        330       15.0        5.0   1,070         26.0       27.8      560        25.0      14.0     970        30.0      29.1     91       115        105
Sugarbeet                  -        -          -         60        45.0        2.7      180        52.0       9.4     200        50.0      10.0   333        111        370
Winter Forage (000 UF)    220      3.0       660.0   1,490          3.9    5,770.0      110         5.0     550.0     950         5.0   4,750.0     64       128         82
Maize                    870        1.5        1.3   2,370          3.3        7.8   1,170          2.7       3.2     790         3.5       2.8     33       106         36
Summer Vegetables        440       15.0        6.6    1,635        28.0       45.8      610        20.0      12.2   1,400        30.0      42.0     86       107         92
Alfalfa (000 UF)         610        5.0    3,050.0   1,155          8.2    9,460.0      830         6.5   5,395.0   2,330         8.0  18,640.0   202         98        197     <
Olives                 3,360        1.5        5.0   3,365          2.7        9.1   4,130          2.0       8.3   4,550         4.0      18.2    135       148        200      I
Citrus                    90       15.0        1.4       90        22.0        2.0      900        20.0      18.0   1,000        35.0      35.0  1,111       159      1,750
Other Fruits             130       4.0         0.5      165        18.0        3.0      190         6.0       1.1     270        10.0       2.7    164       150         90
Other Crops                -        -          -        275         -           -         -         -         -          -        -         -         -        -          -
Total Area Cropped   10,640       -           -    15,705          -          -    11,300          -         -    16,060
Total Project Area    13,426      -           -    12,880          -          -    13,426          -         -    13,426
Harvest Intensity        84        -          -       131          -          -        90          -         -       137



- 28 -
Table 6. Project Results
C. Economnic Impact"
Economic Rate of Return       |        SAR Estimate            PCR Estimate
(%) .
Souss Sub-project                               17.3                      14.4
Ghiss Sub-project                               15.3                       3.8
Chichaoua Sub-project                           16.7                      20.8
Jemaa Sahim Sub-project                         14.5                       9.1
Whole Project                                    15.02                    13.5
D. Studies
Studies                              Status                     Com  ents
Detailed design for some irrigation infrastructures            Done       Local Consulting Firms
Preparation of a second-stage SMSI Project                     Done       DER with the assistance of FAO/CP
Use of Small-scale Farm Machinery and Equipment                  -        Consultant never recruited
" See Annex 2 for assumptions.
2/   The actual ERR is higher than 15.0%  as that rate includes the Middle Sebou Sub-project, cancelled in 1987,
the rate of which was only 12.9%.



-   29   -
Table 7. Status of Covenants
| Loan    StatusOriginal  Revised I
Agreement   Status    Date        Date            Description of Covenants                     Cormnents
Section
3.01 (a)       OK         -          -    CNCA shall make agricultural credit available
to farmers.
3.02 (a)       OK         -          -    Employment of consultants.
3.04 (a)       OK         -          -    Maintain MARA's unit for irrigated crops in
DPV.
3.04 (b)       OK         -          -    Construct field offices at Chichaoua.
3.04 (c)       Rev.       -          -    Establishment of an Irrigation Operations  Not applicable since corresponding
Division in DPA of Fes.                  sub-project has been cancelled.
3.06 (c)       OK                    -    Preparation of quarterly reports.
3.06 (d)       OK         -          -    Preparation of an economic and social baseline Surveys completed; results not yet
survey.                                   available.
3.07 (a)       OK         -          -    Regulate pumping of groundwater in Souss   ORMVSM maintains monitoring
valley following decree No. 2.79.606 of   unit.
9/9/81.
3.07 (b)       OK         -          -    Provide the Bank with information on pumping -
regulation of the Souss aquifer.
3.08           OK                    -    Control diversion of water from Ghiss River.
3.09           OK    06130/85        -    Establishment of water users' association in   Defacto acsociation was converted t
Jemaa Sahim.                              de jure status in December 1992.
3.10           OK    12/31/85        -    Establishment of legal framework for water   Law signed 12/90 and published in
associations.                             official bulletin January 1991.
Application decree published 05/92.
3.10           OK         -          -    Ensure conformity of water users' associations
with said legal framework.
4.02 (a)       OK         -          -    Ensure that annual budget resources allocated
to each department.
4.02 (b)       OK         -          -    Furnish to Bank annual budgets of project
activities as included in Loi de Finance or
Progr. d'emploi.
4.03 (b)       OK         -          -    Send Bank audit reports.
4.04           OK         -          -    Ensure adequate 0 & M.
4.05           OK         -          -    Establish water charges to recover all 0 & M  Formulae agreed at negotiations
costs and a reasonable proportion of      SMSI-I1. DER to negotiate level with
investment costs.                         associations.
Sch.1-4 (b)    OK         -          -    Establishment of water users' association and  8 dejure and 6 defacto associations
of variable plan for use of water of Tajoujet  exist.
canal in Chichaoua.
Sch.1-4 (c)    OK                    -    Establishment of water users' associations in  2 de jure and I defacto associations
Ghiss.                                    exist.



Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
To FY 82  FY 83   FY 84   FY 85   FY 86   FY 87   FY 88   FY 89   FY 90   FY 91    FY 92   FY 93  FY 94  Total
Preparation and Pre-  101.5       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -             101.5
Appraisal
Appraisal              37.4     47.7            -        -       -        -        -        -        -         -             -             85.1
Negotiations            -        4.8            -        -       -        -        -        -        -         -             -              4.8
Sub-total           138.9     52.5       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -             191.4
Supervision             -        4.7      6.0      2.4      7.7      8.8      8.4      8.0      9.6      7.3      9.2       2.3            74.4
PCR                     -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -     13.2   13.2
Total               138.9     57.2      6.0      2.4      7.7      8.8      8.4      8.0      9.6      7.3      9.2      2.3    13.2   279.0    W



-  31  -
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
B. Missions
Stage of Project Cycle  Month/Year   No. of  | Days in  | Specialization    Performance
Persons     Field     Represented"   Rating Status2'
Preparation and Pre-    02/1982        9         N.A.    2 1, A, 4 E, L
Appraisal3'
Appraisal               06/1982        6         N.A.    1, A, 2 E, S, H
Supervision 1           09/1983        2           8           1, E            1/F
Supervision 2           02/1984        2          10           2 1             1/M
Supervision 3           10/1984        1           5            I              2/F
Supervision 4           02/1986        2           3           I, H            3/F
Supervision 5           08/1986        1          16            1            2/F, M
Supervision 6           12/1986        3          12          2 1, E         2/F, M
Supervision 7           11/1987        3           5          2 I, A         2/F, M
Supervision 8           04/1988        1          11            I            2/F, M
Supervision 9           09/1988        2           8           I, A          2/F, M
Supervision 10          04/1989        2          15           1, A          2/F, M
Supervision 11          10/1989        2          16           I, A          2/F, M
Supervision 12          06/1990        2          11           I, A          2/F, M
Supervision 13          12/1990        2          15           I, A          2/F, M
Supervision 14          06/1991        2          12           A, E          2/F, M
Supervision 15          12/1991        2          12           A, I          2/F, M
Supervision 16          05/1992        2          12           A, I          2/F, M
Supervision 17          03/1993        2         N.A.          A, I          2/F, M
Completion              09/1993        2          10           E, I
I: Irrigation Engineer; A: Agronimist; E: Economist; L: Livestock Specialist; S: Sociologist; H:
Hydrogeologist.
v      1: Problem free or Minor Problems; 2: Moderate Problems; 3: Major Problems; F: Financial; M:
Managerial; T: Technical.
31     Project preparation was largely undertaken by Moroccan staff with the assistance of three FAO/CP bus-
stopping missions, for which manpower details are not available. The FAO/CP final preparation mission was then
organized



-  32  -
Part El1: Annex 1: Note on Detailed Project Costs
Detailed project costs of the Souss, Ghiss, Chichaoua and Jemaa Sahim sub-projects, in
current terms, are presented in Tables 1, 2, 3 and 4, respectively. Table 5 details for each of
the four sub-projects, in constant 1993 DH, the Investment Costs, the Operation Costs and the
Maintenance Costs. Incremental operating costs of the extension services are listed in Table 6.



MOROCCO: Siii3l Nix] Mediutim-Scalc Irrigatioi lrujecl
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Project Completion Report
Pnrt III: Aninex 1: Note ont tetailed Project Costs
Table 1. Detailed Project Costs - Snuss Sub-Project (Current 1)11)
19841       1985       16        9877         1988|      1989|      190         19         19921      1993   TOTAL
IRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE
14sondagesl&19forages             7988648      3109499    1009795          0           0          0           0          0          0          0    12107941
SpultsreglondAhmar                  563714      433280     264826          0           0          0           0          0          0          0    1261820
7puitsregionAhmar                  816517         6921     257925          0           0          0         -0           0          0          0    1081363
Crousoment de 40 forages                             0          0   2042154      5347193          0           0          0          0          0    7389347
Creusement de 23 forages                             0          0          0     2263082   11806823           0          0          0          0    14069906
Reseau dirrig. sect.D9                               0          0          0           0  25236984   14590161   15661464    4004728            0   59493337
Reseau dirrig. sectAval                              0          0          0           0   23855287   20459521    2712481      506071     928712    48462072
Genie civil stat. pomp. secteur 09                   0          0          0           0   5979066    6452579    1043763            0          0    13475407
Reseau dirrigation secteurs Amont                    0          0          0           0           0   9042531   24475723    7970359    1701165    43189778
Geniecivildessecteurs Amont                          0          0          0           0           0   4100337    1469332      606922          0    6176591
Genia cMl des secteurs Aval                          0          0          0           0           0          0   5903442    9634510    2307832    17845784
Reseau rouler (80<m)                                 0          0          0           0           0          0   7799618    2199512           0    9999130
Reseau routier (135Km)                               0          0          0           0           0          0          0   12609500   2988736    15598236
Complement reseau dirrigation D9                     0          0          0            0          0          0          0     801125     156875      958000
2 forages d'exploitatlon                             0          0          0            0          0          0          0          0    1200000     1200000
Curage et develop. 8 IBrages                         0          0          0           0           0          0          0          0    999650       999650 W
Control travaux Cabo)                                                                                    600000     500000     700000      80000     1880000 W
Equip. electromeca. secteur D9                       0          0          0           0           0   9264988    4751908      975294          0    14992191
Equip. electromeca. secteurAval                      0          0          0           0           0          0   11417651    9247877    1222370    21887898
Equip. electromeca. secteurAmont                     0          0          0            0          0          0   6510572      469676          0    6980248
Electrif. stat. pomp.                                0          0          0     1996122    2994183           0    1952709     618243    2008973     9570230
CouvwerLe aerlome                    90000           0          0          0            0          0          0          0          0          0       90000
Levee prolas en long                132690           0          0          0            0          0          0          0          0          0       132690
Etude de lequipement               274326           0      23266      60018       156017      47083      38996          0          0          0      599708
Additd levee profils en long        122903      132284      19208          0            0          0          0          0          0          0      274395
Carte occupat. sdls par satallte                140965          0          0            0          0          0          0    346246           0      487211
Etude artrages prise pour segulas                    0          0          0            0    245520      220038          0     124633          0      590191
Etude equipement 2eme tranche                        0          0          0            0     342166     208238          0     538278    1184917     2273599
Total lrrigation Infrastructure  9988798    3822949    1575019    2102172      9762415   70507112   64977390   84198662   51352974   14779231   313066722
SUPPOllT COSTS
Fourniturede3RLet2R9TC                          239145          0          0           0           0          0          0          0          0      239145
Fourniture de 2 Land Rover                      189315          0          0           0           0          0          0          0          0      189315
Fourniture de 8 v6hicules legers                     0          0          0      553216          0           0          0          0          0      553216
Salalres & Deplacem.                 75000       49000      49000     110000      219000     434000     446000      473000     482000     458000    2795000
O & M Vohicules                      10000       10000      10000      200W        20000      20000      20000       20000      20000      10000      160000
Total Support costs                  85000      487460      59000     130000      792216     454000      466000     493000     50200      4680D0     3936676
ON-FARM INVESTMENTS                N.A.        N.A.        N.A.       N.A.       N.A.        N.A.        N.A.       N.A.       NA.        NA.        NA.
TOTAL SOUSS                   10073798     4310410    1634019    2232172    10554631   70961112   65443390   84691662   51854974   15247231   317003399



MOROCCO: Stinll ailtl Mediu,m-Scik trrigilinii Prnjclc
(Loin 225.1-MOR) - Project Completion Report
Part III: Auiiex 1: Note ott D)etailed Project Costs
Table 2. Detailced lroiect Costs - Chtiss Sul)-Project (Current Dil)
1986     1987      1988      1989T    19901    1991 |    19921    19931  TOTAL
IRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE
ConduitesG & D+l             8128768   1729246   1179373                                            42856 11080243
Barrage derivation sur Ghiss  2648162   147546   247974                                                     3043682
Protection eaux sauvages     2071104  2021275    510760   1007649  2092720                                  7703508
Reseau irrigation            2440782  3248627   4439092              366652    493392                      10988545
Conduite tete morte                    2421360   9647618    681233             1002434                     13752645
Drains aspirateurs                                314852    220435    40814                                  576101
Reseau de pistes                        645244              139335    61955                                  846534
Drainage profond                                 1106016   2243943   217076                                 3567035
Protection conduite tete morte                              342160   989256      97103               8674   1437193
Reparaton conduite tete morte                                                            1094416   828830   1923246
Recalibrage oued Ghiss                                                498257                                 498257
Controle geotechn.           1128758                                                                        1128758
Remise etat reseau drainage                                                                         55500    55500  u
Total Irrigat Infrastr.   16417574  10213298  17445685   4634755  4266730   1592929   1094416   935860 56601247
SUPPORT COSTS
Construction 4 bureaux        156329    31894      11767                                                      199990
Construction 4 logements      737976    19013                                                        55546   812535
Vehicules                               250050    26731      22868                                           299649
Materiel veterinaire                                                                      109992             109992
AEP batiments                                                14803                                             14803
Electrificat batiments                                       28678                                            28678
Suivi                         144600   289200    289200   289200   289200                                   1301400
Total Support costs        1038905   590157    327698    355549   289200           0    109992    55546  2767047
ON-FARM INVESTMENTS            N.A.     N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.      N.A.
TOTALGH_SSSUBPROJECT _ 17456479 _10803455  17773383   4990304  4555930  1592929  120440_8   991406 59368294



MOROCCO; Snuill mid Mediumi-Scalc lrrigalinii Itnjce1
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Projecl Crmpictioii Rerort
Part III: Annex 1: Note on D)etailed lroject Costs
Tnble 3. Detailed Project Costs - Cliicinoua Sub-ProJect (Current 1)11)
1    19851    19861    19871    19881    19891    1990o    1991 |    19921    19931 TOTAL
IRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE
Oiuvrges Iradtissemenl    399942   107221   166734         0        0         0         0         0        0   673897
Stablisation berges     1150617   345948   1820208   712084         0         0         0         0        0  4028857
PRehablitat. reseau     1500614   646553   134618          0   756570   191963          0         0        0  3230318
Betcnnage resetu                  551013  1928629  3849555  1967311           0    161082         0        0  5457590
Assinissement agricde                  0         0    100680   170601         0         0         0        0   271281
Plstes                                 0   141298   772407   622953           0         0   1716554        0  3253212
Siphon Bou Anneflir                    0   279185       6000   108002         0         0         0        0   393187
3 Barrages prise                       0  2479642  5529210  4123500   724906            0         0        0  12857258
Siiron 1ranchiss.                      0         0         0        0   939546          0         0        0   939546
Trav. compl. barrages price             0        0         0         0   528058         0         0        0   528058
Stablisal. berges                      0         0         0        0         0   459075          0        0   459075
Couvertiure aerienne     131096   124200         0         0   347675         0    103897         0        0   706870
Eludes geotedmn.                  317235         0    32829         0         0         0         0        0   350064
Conlrde travaux                        0         0         0         0     16703        0    60448         0    77151
Tola Irrigat. Infrastr.  318271   2092170  6950314  11002765  8096612  2401176   724054   1777002        0 36226364
SUPPORT COSTS
Constduct. batiments     583144  1024192   657095   228756           0        0         0         0   158822  2632009
AEP puits)                             0         0     16170      7400        0         0         0        0    23570
AEP batiments                          0         0    88372       9819        0         0         0        0    98191
AEP brrtncements                       0         0     19778         0        0         0         0        0    19778
Amenagemrmts divers                    0         0         0         0        0      4500         0        0      4500
Postb transformateur                   0         0    116931    27964         0         0         0        0   144895
Modopomnpe AEP                         0         0         0    24000         0         0         0        0    24000
Vehiwles                 214668        0         0         0         0        0         0         0        0   214668
Veilcules                102700        0         0         0         0        0         0         0        0   102700
Motocydettes                           0         0         0    49760         0         0         0        0    49760
Bacs refrigerants                      0         0         0         0        0    126500         0        0   126500
Materiel velerinaire                   0         0         0         0        0      8877   117941         0   126818
Materiel audiovis.                     0         0         0         0        0      9880   131270         0   141150
Materid agricole                       0         0         0         0        0    24611   326985          0   351596
Fcumiiture bureau                      0         0         0        0         0   226813    17072          0   243885
Fcumiture bureau                       0         0         0        0         0         0    15000         0    15000
Fcrlukre bureau                        0         0         0        0         0         0    15880         0    15880
Bectrifical. batiments                 0         0         0    81790         0         0        0         0    81790
Secitificat. batiments                 0         0    34401         0         0         0        0         0    34401
Suivi                    264200   273900   273900   273900   273900
Totdl Sipport costs   1144712  1298092   930995   778308   474633           0   401181   624148   158822  5810891
ON-FARM INVESTMENTS   NA.          N.A.     N.A.      N.A.      NA.      NA.       N.A.      NA.      N.A.      N.A.
TOTALCHICHAOUA          4326983  3390262  7881309 11781073  8571245  2401176  1125235  2401150   158822 42037255



MOROCCO: Small anti Medium-Scale Irrigatkin Prljecl
(LAoan 2251-MOR) - Prijcc Cnmpiletion Report
I'art III: Autitex 1: Note on D)efniledl I'roject Costs
Table 4. I)etliled Prolcct Costs - Jemotn Snitint Suib-Project (Current Di)
19198|186  987      19881      1989        01992
____L_   L__. _.......... ...  - ---- I .. .__.                   .....    .                ._---1
IRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE          1985  __5~~9_-91193 :TO:TAL
Pisles & colatures                         1834573   1681406         0    406311    100014          0          0             4022304
Genie civil stat. pomp.                          0    138831    604157    761436          0         0          0    405841   1910265
Canalisat. bomnes                                0   3605671   2845990    558072    298429          0          0    585858   7894020
Barodage porte                                   0         0         0          0     29648         0          0               29648
Conduites                                        0         0         0          0         0         0    322120      74438    396558
Electritic. stat. pomp.                    416932          0         0          0         0         0          0    515927    932859
Controle tIrav.                                  0     42269          0     13552         0          0         0               55821
Mater. elec. stat. pomp.         232658    697975   1255245    831532    125256    555339           0          0    558000   4256005
Crepines                                         0         0          0         0         0      9980          0                9980
Electropomp.                                     0         0          0         0         0     29512          0               29512
Mater. mobileltrig.                        1612146         0          0   1091055    217904    151385          0    148152   3220642
Divergert lrdg.                                  0         0     23616          0         0         0          0                23616
Total irrigat. Infastr.  232658   4561626   6723422   4305295   2955682   1201334    190877    322120   2288216  22781230
SUPPORT COSTS                                                                                                                                                    L
Constr. agence                   396800   1006481          0          0         0    170958          0         0              1574240
Infirmerie veter.                                0         0    106720          0     70963          0         0               177683
Centre intercoop.                                0         0    151440    100349    193279           0     24572               469640
Centre colecte lalt                              0         0          0     39780         0     27134      27001                93915
AEP batiments                                    0         0          0         0         0          0    198440    125560    324000
Station monte                                    0         0          0         0         0          0    111361     88212    199573
Mob4ier bureau                                   0         0          0     69700         0          0         0                69700
Vehicules                         103929         0         0          0         0         0          0         0               103929
Vehicules                                        0         0          0         0      2474          0         0                 2474
Vehicules                                    59003         0          0         0         0          0         0                59003
Genheurs                                         0         0          0         0         0      29800         0                29800
Equip. coil. bfet                                0         0          0         0    168615          0         0     55385    224000
Audiovisuel                                      0         0          0         0     73810          0     69119     47071    190000
Equip. centre elev.                              0         0          0         0         0     73198      12277                85475
Machine elec.                                    0         0          0         0         0          0     12500                12500
Photocop.                                        0         0          0         0         0     58000          0               58000
Ordinateur                                       0         0          0         0         0          0     90499     10055    100554
Electrific. batim.                               0         0          0         0    400001         0          0    559999    960000
Architect. bat.                                  0         0          0      9980         0          0         0                9980
Suivi                            107800    172800    172800    172800    172800       81400                                   880400
Total supp. costs       608529   1238284    172800    430960    392609   1161500    188132    545769    886282   5624866
ON-FARM INVESTMENTS               N.A.      N.A.       N.A.      N.A.      N.A.       N.A.      N.A.      N.A.       N.A.        N.A.
TOTAL JEMAA SAHIM                841187   579990   6896222   4736?55   3348291   2362834    379009    867889   3174498  28406096



MOROCCO: Smiiall anid Mcdliin-Scalc Irrigatioii lronject
(Loanr 2253MOh1R) - Project CompIcliom Report
Palt III: Anniex 1: Nole onii Deailed Project Cosls
'I'Tble 5. Iives(nielit am(i Operatlion & Malagehllent Cos(s (Consltant 1993 DII)
1904    1905   1908   1907    1900   1989   1990   1991    1992   1993   1994   1995   1998   1997   1990   1999   2000                       2001
2020
SOlSS SJB -PFlOJECT
A. INVESTMENr
IlrIgaon (lrrdgr)                6584    2498      873    1061    4591   33405   29123   36962   21592    6133
rTigaton (local)                  9982    3524    1316    1690    7457   51019   44892   54365   31548    0646
Suppfrtlcr eig.t)                   56     318       33      66     373     215      209     216     211      194
Support (local)                     85     449       49     105     605     334      322     310     306     274
8. OPERATION Ml\lTENARNCE
Opoalcon                                                                                                            15850   15650   15850   15050   15050   18730   10730      20955
blnltmance                                                                                            340     600    1150    1150    1150    1150    1150    1150    1150        5084
TOTAE                           16708    6789    2271    2921   13026   05773   74546   91062   53999   15927   17000   17000   17000   17000   17000   19800   19000         26039
a0-Iss sJB-PnwEcT
A- INVESTMENT
IrTigalion (krdgn)                   0       0   9096    5155    0205    2196    1912       699      460     300
InlgaUon (local                      0       0   13720    8211   13326    3408    2948    1029       672     547
Supporl (rc-elgrl)                   0       0      578     290     154      168     130       0      46      23
SupPJn (local)                       0        0     068     474     250     261      200       0      00      32                                                                       U.
B. OPERATION MtA NTENANCE
Operalcn
lbinlenanco                                                                                                   430     860    1730    1730    1730    1730    1730   4690         2028
TOTlt                               0       0   24260   14139   21936    6032    5190    1720    1246    1421       860    1730    1730    1730    1730    1730    4690        2026
C-lC.AOLJAs SJ-PInOJECT
A. INVESTMENT
rrlgalon lcrdgn)                     0    2079    1159    3500    5175    3836    1076      318      747       0
lrrlgaton (ocal)                     0    2933    1748   5588    8405    5951    1659       468    1092        0
SuppcTt (Urrelgri)                   0     748      719     470     366     225        0     176     262      66
Suppcrt(local)                       0    1055    1085      748     595     349        0     259     383      93
'B. OPERATION MAINTENANCE
Opration
ainlrenance                                                                          170     340      690     690     690     690     690      690     690     690     690        699
TOT&                                0   6815    4712   10314   14540   10360    2905    1560    3175        849     090     690     690      690     690     690     690       699
JEMM SAHIM SUB -PROJECT
Ak INVESTMENT
lrrigaIon (creign)                   0     152    2527    3394    2025    1400      538      04      135    950
in-IgaUon (local)                    0     214    3012    5405    3209    2172      030     123     198    1339
Supporl (icrolgn)                    0     398     606       87     203     106     521       83     229     360
Support (local)                      0  * 561    1035       139     329     289     802      121     335     510
'B. OPEnlATION MAlNTENANCE
Opcralon                                                                                    785      705    705      705     705      785    705      705     785     785       705
Malntenance                                                                                  230     460     930      930     930     930     930     930      930    4790      1636
TOftt                              0    1325    0060    9025    5045    4047    2691    1426    2143    4890    1715    1715    1715    1715    1715    1715    5575          2421



- 38 -
MOROCCO: Small and Medium-Scale Irrigation Project
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Project Completion Report
Part [I: Annex 1: Note on Detailed Project Costs
Table 6. Incremental Operating Costs of the Extension Services"
Scheme                             DHlYear
Souss                                 -
Ghiss                              42,000
Chichaoua                            89,000
Jemaa Sahim                           45,000
Source:      Mission estimates on the basis of data presented by ORMVASM and DPA staff.
" Including salaries of additional staff, operating costs of vehicles, etc.



-  39  -
Part III: Annex 2: Note on Economnic Analysis
1.        MARA's Directorate of Planning and Economic Affairs (DPAE) was in charge
of defining the "Without Project situation", by conducting four baseline surveys, and of
regularly evaluating project benefits. However, at the time of the mission's visit DPAE had
not yet processed the baseline survey data nor had it started collecting data to evaluate project
benefits. The mission was therefore obliged to roughly estimate the "present" and "at full
development" agricultural production on the basis of limited data collected by DPA and
ORMVASM staff and, principally, their broad knowledge of the project area.
2.        Main assumptions underlying the PCR estimates of the Economic Rate of Returns
are:
(i)    Land use "before" and "during the project" presented in Tables 1, 2, 3
and 4 respectively for the Souss, Ghiss, Chichaoua and Jemaa Sahim
schemes.
(ii)    Economic prices and costs listed in Table 5. These prices are mainly
taken from the SAR of the Second Large-Scale Irrigation Improvement
Project (March 1993).
(iii)   With and without project, Per Ha Economic Returns for Selected
Commodities (Table 6). Technical parameters of the "With" and
"Without Project" situations have been taken from the Preparation
(FAO/CP) and SAR Reports. Due to the limited accuracy of the data
used to estimate the economic benefits of the project, it has been
voluntarily decided not to have specific per ha budgets for each of the
schemes, but rather to have "National/Ha budgets" only.
(iv)   Per Ha Economic Returns Progression for Selected Commodities
(Table 7). Annual increases have been arbitrarily fixed at 20%, 30%,
30% and 20% respectively of the difference between "Full
development" and "Without project" net returns in the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and
4th years of the project. It is indeed assumed that full development will
be reached in 4 years because the present situation shows that many
farmers have, since water is available, started intensifying their
production.
(v)    Tables 8, 9, 10 and 11 present the economic benefits resulting from the
rehabilitation or construction of the Souss, Ghiss, Chichaoua and Jemaa
Sahim schemes respectively. Economic benefits are calculated by
aggregating Land Use (Tables I to 4) and Per Ha Economic Returns
Progression (Table 7).
(vi)   The "Without Project" situation, taken from the SAR as more precise
data are not yet available, has been considered constant during the whole
project life.



- 40 -
(vii)   Tables 12 to 16 present the flows of economic costs and benefits in 1993
constant DH for each of the four schemes and for the whole project:
- investment costs; the data detailed in Annex 1, Table 5 are adjusted
by the Standard Conversion Factor (SCF); the life of the irrigation
rehabilitation and new construction works is assumed to be 30 years
not taking into account the construction period;
- operating costs; they include the Operation Costs of the pumping
stations (Annex 1, Table 5) and the Incremental Operating Costs of
the Extension Services (Annex 1, Table 6), adjusted by the SCF;
- maintenance costs; the data presented in Annex 1, Table 5 are
adjusted by the SCF;
- incremental net economic benefits (Tables 8, 9, 10 and 11).
3.        Main assumptions underlying the SAR economic analysis are:
-      project life: 35 years;
-      irrigation is assumed to start in the year following the completion of all
construction or rehabilitation works;
-      full farmer participation in irrigation is projected for year 11 and full
development for year 21;
-      period from start-up of irrigation to full development is five years or
less for crops;
-      economic prices were derived from the Bank's projections of world
market prices; non-traded inputs and outputs have been valued at their
market and farTngate prices, adjusted by the appropriate conversion
factor;
investment and operating costs have been valued at economic prices.



- 41 -
MOROCCO: Small and Medium-Scale Irigation Project
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Project Complenon Report
Part m: Annex 2: Note on Economic Analysis
Table 1. Land Use - Souss Scheme"'
Before
Project2/     1992      1993      1994      1995      1996    1997-2020
(3/4/      (4/      (E/       (6/        (6/      (6/
Cereals                            2940       820      1050       300      1000      1500     2000
Grahi Legumes                         0         0         0         0        0          0
Winter Vegetables                     0       160       180       200       300       400      500
'Jhter Forage                         0         0         0       200       300       400       500
Sub-total                2940       980      1230       700      1600      2300      3000
Maize                               280       300       400       400       400       450       500
Summer Vegetables                   260       350       390       520       650       800      1000
Sub-total                 540       650       790       920      1050      1250      1500
Alfalfa                             440       320       840      1280      1500      1800      2000
Olhres                             2810      3150      4000      4000      4000      4000      4000
Citrus                               90       880       920      1000      1000      1000      1000
Other Frubts                          0         0         0        50        50        50        50
Sub-total                3340      4350      5760      6330      6550      6850      7050
TOTAL                    6820      5980      7780      7950      9200     10400    11550
ikrigable Area                    10163     10163     10163    10163    10163       10163     10163
HlarvestIntersity (6/              71        62        85        91       105       120       133
1 / Irtrastructire completed, scheme by scheme from July 1992 to mid 1993.
2/ Staff Appraisal Report data.
3/1992: Cropping season 1991-1992.
4/ ORMVASM's data
S Mission estimates based on discussions with ORMYASM's staff
6/ Afalt area Is courted twice to account for multiple cuts.



- 42 -
MOROCCO: Small and Medium-Scale Irnigaion Project
(Loan 22S3-MOR) - Project Compleion Report
Part m: Annex 2: Note on Economic Analysis
Table 2. Land Use - Ghiss Schemeu
Before                       With Projet
Project 2/     1992       1983      1994      1995      1996     1997- 202
(3/4/      (4/        (5/       (51        (5/     (5/6/
(              Ha .....
Cereds                                   450       440        440       440       420        410       400
Grain Legumes                             20         0          0         0        40         60        80
Winter Vegetables                        200       220       1IO        20        200        200       20
WinterForage                             120        100       120        120       110       110       100
Sub-total                  790       760        720       7e0       770        780       780
Maize                                     70        30         10        30        30         30        30
Summer Vegetables                         70        30         20        40        50         60        80
Sub-total                  140        60         30        70        80         90       110
Alfalfa                                  130        140        60        100       110       120       130
Olives                                     0         0          0         0         0          0         0
Other Fruits (N-A)                         -        50         60        70        80         90        90
Sub-total                  130       190        120       170       190        210       220
TOTAL                     1060      1010        870      1000      1040       1030      1110
Irigated Area                            920       920        920       920       920        920       920
HarvestIntensity (71                   129       125        102       120       125        130       135
1/ Infrmstructure was completed in May 1991. but due to the low rainfall
there was almost no water durng 1992 and 1993 summers; the 1994
cropping season Is therefore the first one during which the new
infrastructure will probably be properly used.
2/Staff Appraisl Repoit data.
3/ 1992: Cropping season 1991-1992.
4/ OPA's data.
S/ Mission stimates based on discussions with OPAs staff.
6/ Due to limited water availabilty in July. August and September
appraised total area of summer cropi has been reduced from 400 Ha. to 240 Ha.
7/ AlfaIta area is counted twice to account for multiple cuts.



- 43 -
MOROCCO: Small and Medium-Scale Irrigation Project
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Project Completion Report
Part HI: Annex 2: Note on Economic Analysis
Table 3. Land Use - Chichaoua Scheme"
Before
Project 2/     1990      1991       1992     1993-2020
(3/4/      (41        (41       (5/
Cereals                               950       900        850       750       700
Grain Legumes                           0         0        100       200       300
WVinter Vegetables                    130       150        150       200        200
Winter Forage                         100        150       200       300        350
Sub-total                 1180       1200      1300       1450      1550
Maize                                 520       600        700       750        800
Summer Vegetables                     110        130       150       170        190
Sub-total                   630       730       850        920       990
Alfalfa                                40        60         90       120        150
Olives (6/                            550       550        550       550       550
Other Fruits                          130       130        130       130        130
Sub-total                  720        740       770        800       830
TOTAL                     2530       2670      2920       3170      3370
Irrigable Area                       1900      1900       1900      1900      1900
Harvest Intensity (7/               135       144        158       173       185
1 / Infrastructure completed in September 1989.
2/ Staff Appraisal Report data.
3/ 1990: Cropping season 1989 -1990.
4/ Mission e4ttrtes- based on discussions with DPA's staff.
5/ DPA's data and Mission Estimates.
6/ Olive trees intercropped with winter and summer crops.
7/ Alfalfa area is counted twice to accountfor multiple cuts.



- 44 -
MOROCCO: Small and Medium-Scale Irrigation Project
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Project Compiedon Report
Part ImI: Annex 2: Note on Economic Analysis
Table 4. Land Use - Jemaa Sahim Scheme"
Before
Project2/      1991       1992      1993       1994     1995- 2020
(3/4/      (4/      (4/5/        (6/       (6/
( .  Ha .)
Cereals                                   210        220       180        130       100         70
Grain Legumes.                             20        130        30         50        50         50
Winter Vegetables                           0         30        20         30        50         70
Sugarbeet                                   0          0       170        190       200        200
Winter Forage                               0          0         0          0          0         0
Sub-total                   230       380        400       400        400        390
Maize                                       0        110       110         50        70         70
Summer Vegetables                           0         20        90         50        100       130
Sub-total                     0        130       200        100       170        200
Alfalfa                                     0         10         10        10        30         s0
OlIves                                      0         0          0          0         0          0
Other Fruits                                0          0         0          0         0          0
Sub-total                     0         10        10        10         30         50
TOTAL                       230       520        610       510       6S0         640
Irrigated Area                            443        443       443        443       443        443
HarvestIntensity (7/                     52        120       140        117       142        156
1/ Infrastructure completed in June 1990.
2/ Staff Appraisal Report data.
3/ 1991: Cropping season 1990-1991.
4/ DPA's data.
5/ Reduclon in harvest intensity due to power cuts.
61 Mission estmates based on discusslons with DPA's staff.
7/ Afalfa area is counted twice to account for multiple cuts.



- 45 -
MOROCCO: Small and Medium-Scale Irrigation Project
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Project Completion Report
Part mII: Annex 2: Note on Economic Analysis
Table 5. Economic Prices"
DH per Ton
Selected Commodities
Cereals                                                      2,200
Maize                                                        1,600
Sugarbeet                                                      330
Green Legumes                                                2,000
Winter Vegetables                                            1,600
Summer Vegetables                                            1,300
Forage (per 1,000 FU)                                        2,000
Citrus                                                        1,300
Olives                                                       3,100
Other Fruits                                                 2,500
Conversion Factor for Selected Inputs
Seeds                                                           1.0
Manure                                                          1.0
Fertilizers                                                    0.8
Chemicals                                                       1.0
Mechanization                                                  0.9
Labour                                                         0.8
Standard Conversion Factor:
Investment Costs and Operation and Maintenance Costs           0.9
Source:      Kingdom  of Morocco: Staff Appraisal Report of the Second Large-Scale Irrigation
Improvement Project - World Bank, March 1993 and Mission Estimates.
"   1993 Prices.



MOROCCO: Small and Medium-Scate Irrigat/on Project
(Loan 2253-HOR) - Project Completion Report
Part III: Annex 2: Note on Economic Analysis
Table 6. With and Without Project Per Ha. Economic Returns for Selected Conmodities"
Cereals        Maize        Sugarbeet   Green Legumes      Winter          Summer        Alfalfa         Bersim         Citrus         Olives      Other Fruits
I     I               I ~~~~~~Vegetables  IVegetablesI|
Without With |Without With Without With  Withoutl With   WithoutlWith   WithoutW With  Witho ith  Without With  Withoutl With  Withoutl With  Without With
. ................................ ... . (DH per ha)   ....... ..............................
roduction
osts" v
peeds           350    350    180    180    -      1,200    375     600  5,700  7,600    400    600    -                 500     700    -       -
anure           -      -      -      -      -       -    2,000   2,000  4,000  6,000  4,000  4,000    -          -      -       -       -       600    -       400    -      -
Fertilizers     160    800    240    800    -      2,400    -       800    320  2,400    320  2,400  . 320    640    .           640  2,000  4,000    -        640    400    800
hemicats        -      300    -      300    -       260    -       400    250  3,600    500  3,000    -          200    -       -     1,300  2,600    -        500    500  1,000
echanization    252    756    252    756    -       630    315     630  1,386  2,268  1,575  3,150    378    630    378         630  1,386  2,835    315       630    378    756      >
abour           600    800    800    960    -    4,000    800   1,600  3,200  4,800  2,800  4,400  2,000  3,200  1,600   2,000  3,400  6,800  2,000   3,200  2,400  4,000
oontingencies    138    304    148    304           860    350     600  1,484  2,662    955  1,750    272    470    252         400    804  1,685    235       540    372    754
First Esta-      -      -      -      -              -      -       -              -       -      -      1,340  1,340    -       -    2,000  2,000    400      400  2,000  2,000
t ishment"
Total       1.500  3.310  1.620  3.300    -    9.350  3.840   6,630 16.340 29.330 10,550 19.300  4.310  6.480  2.730   4.370 10,890 20.520  2.950   6.310  6.050 10,310
ross Vatue
f Product."
ain Product  2,200  7,040  2,400  5,600    -    16,500  8,000  14,000 24,000 48,000 19,500 39,000 10,000 16,000  6,000  10,000 19,500 45,500  4,650  12,400 10,000 25,000
y-Product       750  1,310    900  1,310    -     1,500                    -      -       -          -       -       -          -      -       -          -           -      -
Total       2.950  8.350  3.300  6.910    -    18.000  8.000  14.000 24,000 48.000 19.500 39.000 10.000 16,000  6.000  10.000 19.500 45.500  4.650  12.400 10.000 25,000
alance        1,450  5,040  1,680  3,610    -    8,650  4,160   7,370  7,660 18,670  8,950 19,700  5,690  9,520  3,270   5,630  8,610 24,980  1,700   6,090  3,950 14,690
"   At full development.
21   Economic prices are listed in Table 5.
3/   Waler costs have not been included to avoid double counting as operation and maintenance costs of the irrigation infrastructures have already been taken into account.
"    On the basis of 5 years for alfalfa, 25 years for citrus and 30 years for olive trees.



- 47 -
MOROCCO: Small and Nfedium-Scale [rrigaton Project
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Project Completion Report
Part m: Annex 2: Note on Economic Analysis
Table 7. Per Ha. Economic Returns Progression for Selected Commodities,
Without            Project years 2J
Project          1         2          3      4-30
.            DH per Ha ....... . ..
Cereals                   1450       2170      3250      4320       5040
Maize                     1680       2070      2650      3220       3610
Sugarbeet                    -       4330      6490       7790      8650
Legumes                   4160       4800      5770       6730      7370
Winter vegetables         7660       9860     13170      16470     18670
Summer vegetables         8950      11100     14330      17550     19700
Alfalfa                   5690       6460      7610       8750      9520
Winter forage             3270       3740      4450       5160      5630
Citrus                    8610      11880     16800      21710     24980
Olives                    1700       2580      3895       5210      6090
Other fruits              3950       6100      9320      12540     14690
Source: Tables 5 and 6 and mission estimates.
1/ Annual increases are arbitrarily fixed
at 20%, 30%, 30% and 20% respectively of the difference
between "Full Development" and "Without Project'
net returns, in the 1 st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th years of the project.
2/ Project starts in the cropping season which follows
the completion of the irrigation infrastructure
(Chichaoua: 1990; Jemaa Sahim: 1991; Souss and Ghiss: 1992).



- 48 -
MOROCCO: Small and Medium-Scale Irrigadon Project
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Project Completion Report
Part m31: Annex 2: Note on Economic Analysis
Table 8. Total Economic Benefits - Souss Scheme
Without
Project       1992       1993      1994       1995       1996     1997-
(           1993 Constant 'OOODH .................)       2020
Cereals                              4263       1779       3413      1296      5040       7560      10080
Grain Legumes                           0          0          0         0          0         0          0
Winter Vegetables                        0      1578       2371      3294       5601      7468       9335
Winter Forage                            0         0          0      1032       1689      2252       2815
Sub-total                 4263       3357       5783      5622      12330     17280      22230
Maize                                 470        621       1060      1288       1444      1625       1805
Summer Vegetables                    2327       3885       5589      9126      12805     15760      19700
Sub-total                  2797      4506       6649     10414      14249      17385     21505
Alfalfa                              ?504       2067       6392     11200      14280     17136      19040
Olives                               4777       8127      15580     20840     24360      24360      24360
Citrus                                775      10454      15456     21710      24980     24980      24980
other Fruits                            0          0          0       627        735       735        735
Sub-total                 8056      20649      37428     54377      64355     67211      69115
TOTAL                     15116     28512      49860     70413      90934    101875    112850
Total incremental                   13396      34744     55297      75818      86759     97734
Source: Tables 1 and 7



- 49 -
MOROCCO: Small and Medium-Scale Irrigation Project
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Project Completion Repon
Part m: Annex 2: Note on Economic Analysis
Table 9. Total Economic Benefits - Ghiss Scheme
Without
Project       1992       1993      1994      1995       1996     1997-2020
.           1993 Constant'OOODH .................)
Cereals                                  653        955      1430       1901      2117      2066       2018
Grain Leumes                             83          0         0          0       295       442        590
Winter Vegetables                       1532       2169      2107       3294      3734      3734       3734
Sugarbeet                                  0          0         0          0         0          0         0
Winter Forage                            392        374       534        619       619        619       583
Sub-total                 2660      3498       4071       5814      6765      6862       6903
Maize                                     118        62         27        97       108        108       108
Summer Vegetables                        627        333        287       702       985       1182      1 576
Sub-total                  744        395       313        799      1093      12iO       1684
Alfalfa                                   740       904        457       875      1047       1142      1238
Orlves                                     0          0          0         0         0          0         0
Other Fruis                                0        305        559       878      1175       1322      1322
Sub-total                  740       1209      1016       1753      2222      2465       2560
TOTAL                     4144      5103       5400       8365     1W081     10617      11147
Total incremental                     959      1256       4222      5937      6473       7003
Source: Tables2and7



- 50 -
MOROCCO: Small and Medium-Scale Irrigation Project
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Project Compledon Report
Part DI: Annex 2: Note on Economic Analysis
Table 10. Total Economic Benefits - Chichaoua Scheme
Without
Project      1990      1991      1992    1993-2020
(.         1993 Constant'OOODH ........... )
Cereals                            1378      1953      2763     3240      3528
Grain Legumes                         0         0       577      1346     2211
Winter Vegetables                   996      1479      1976      3294     3734
'inter Forage                       327       561       890      1548     1971
Sub-total               2700      3993      6205      9428    11444
Maize                               874      1242      1855     2415      2888
Summer Vegetables                   985      1443      2150     2984      3743
Sub-total                1858      2685      4005     5399      6631
Alfalfa                             228       388       685      1050      1428
Olives                              935      1419      2142      2866     3350
Other Fruits                        514       793      1212      1630     1910
Sub -total               1676      2600      4039     5546      6687
TOTAL                    6235      9278     14248    20372    24762
Total incremental                  3043      8014    14138    18527
Source: Tables 3 and 7.



- 51 -
MOROCCO: Small and Medium-Scale lrilgation Project
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Project Completion Repon
Part m: Annex 2: Note on Economic Analysis
Table 11. Total Economic Benedits - Jenma Sahim Scheme
Wlthout
Project        1991      1992       1993      1994     1995- 2020
(. 19      93 Constant 'OOOO H   .................)
Cereals                                   305        477       585        562       504        353
Grain Legumes                              83        624        173       337       369        369
Winter Vegetables                           0        296       263        494       934       1307
Sugarbeet                                   0          0      1103       1480      1730       1730
Winter Forage                               0          0          0         0          0         0
Sub-total                   388      1397       2125      2872       3536       3758
Maize                                       0        228       292        161       253        253
Summer Vegetables                           0        222       1290       878       1970      2561
Sub-total                     0       450       1581       1039      2223       2814
Alfafa                                       0        65         76        88        286       476
Olives                                      0          0         0          0          0         0
Other Fruits                                0          0         0          0          0         0
Sub-total                     0         65        76        88        286        476
TOTAL                       388       1912      3782      3998       6044       7048
Total Incremental                     1524      3394      3611       5657       6660
Source: Tables 4 and 7.



MOROCCO: Smaltl and Medium-Senle Irrfgation Project
(Loan 2253-1OR) - Project Completion Report
Part III: Annex 2: Note on Economic Analysis
Table 12.  Cash Flow for Economic Rate of Return - Souss Sub-Project (Constant 1993  000 DiH)
1964      19065     196        1967      1908       1989     10        1991       1992      1993      1994       1995      199       1997       199       1999      200      2001-
2020
lnvesmentQosh (1/                  15035      611o       2044      2829      11723     77196     67091      62676     48293      13722         0
OperabigCost (2                        0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0      7133      9273       9908     11412      14265     14285      14285     14285     14285     16l89
MaltrenmrceCosts (3(                   0         0          0         0         0          0         0          0       308       612       1035      1035       1035      1035      1035       1035      1035      4576
Total Eewnomlc Cos       15035      6110       2044      2829     11723      77190     67091     62678      55732     23807      11021     12447      15300     15309     15309      15300     153M0    23436
hcrem.n et Economic Beinens (41        0          0         0         0          0         0         0          0     13390     34744      55297     75816      86759     97734     97734     97734      97734     97734
alice ebr OboDunt      -15035      -8110     -2044      -2829    -11723    -77199    -07091    -62870    -42338       11137      44278     83371     71459      82434     62434     62434     52434      74296
ERR          14.38%
I/ Source Annex 1, Table 5. edlusled by hie SCF.
21 Opralhg cosb hekde operatbin eost of ihe puup&g
statons (Mnex 1.Table 5)and iehehemenlelopeuathnwsbof Ihe
exte sbn sersces (Annex 1. Table 60, sdusted by ihe SCF.
31 Srce knex 1. Table . esdlsted by th SCF.
4I Sourcw Table 6.



MOROCCO: Smatl and Medium-Scale Irrigation Project
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Project Completion Report
Part III: Annex 2: Note on Economic Analysis
Table 13.  Cash Flow for Economic Rate of Return  - Ghiss Sub-Project (Constant 1993   000 DH)
1964      1965       1986      1987       1989       19ag      1990       1991      1992       1993       1994      1995       1990      1997       1998      1899       2000    20u1-
2020
InvestmentQsts (11                          0         0     21834       12125     19742       5429      4871       1555      1121        092          0
Opematlngtsbl2/                             0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0         0         3M 39                38         38        38         38        38         38        38
MalntnanceCosts (3/                         0         0          0         0          a          a         0          0         0        387       774       1557       1557      1557       557      1557       4221      1823
TotalEwonDmic sts           0          0     21834      12725      19742      5429       4671       1559      1121       1317       812       1595       1595      1595       1595      1595       4259      1881
Inremental NletEconomkBenellnb (41        0          0          0         0          0         0          0          0       959       125G      4222       5937       6473      7003       7003      7003       7003      7003
BalancelorDiscount            0         0   -21834    -12725    -19742        -5429      -4671     -1555       -162        -61      3410       4342       4879      5408       5408      5406       2744      5142
EPFt           384%
1/ Souroe: Amex 1. Table s,er usled by the SCF.
2/ lncrenentaloperatlg cmts of the exlensbn services
prnex 1 Table 6). afsted by tIhe SCF.
3Y Sance: A--ex 1, Table b. acluilei by tIhe SCF.
41 Sounrc: Table 9
(41



MOROCCO: Small and Mediun-Scale Irrigation Project
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Project Completion Report
Part III: Annex 2: Note on Economic Analysis
Table 14.  Cash Flow for Economic Rate of Return - Chichaoua Sub-Project (Constant 1993  000 DII)
19114     1965      1996       1967      1996       1969      I 90      1991       1992      1913      1994       1Q95      1996      1997       1996      1999      2000    20011-
202
lnvestmentCosb (if                     0      6134       424t      92fl3    13006       9324      2462       10o9      2237        143         0
OperatingCosb (21                      0          0         0         0          0         0         oO        60        e0         0o        6o        so         n0        80         80        s0        so        o0
MartentnceCosts (3Y                    0          0         0         0          0         0        153       306       621       621        621       621       621        621       621       621        621       629
Total Economic CosIs         0      6134       4241      9283     13086       9324      2695       1484      2938       044        701       701       701        701       701       701        701       709
Increm.NetEconomic Benelis (4l         0         0          0         0          0         0      3043      6014      14139      18527     16527      R6s27     16527     16527     19527      16s27     18527     16527
Balancebrflbcount            0     -6134     -4241      -9263   -13060      -9324        346      (530      11200     17603      17626     17626     17626      17629     17626     17626      17626     17616
ESR          20.n3%
(_n
1/ Source Annex 1, Table 5, dusled by tie SCF.
2V hcrernwetal operithg costs of tie extensxn servicesI
(Annex 1 Table 6), adjusled by tIe SCF.
31 Source Annex 1, TableS. adlusted by tie SCF.
41 Scurce Tabla Io



MOROCCO: Small anrld Mediunm-Scate Irrigation Project
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Project Completion Report
Part III: Annex 2: Note on Economic Analysis
Table 15.  Cash Flow  for Economic Rate of Return  - Jemaa Saiuim Sub-Project (Constant 1993  '000 Dil)
1984      10os       1998       1007       ono 9     191        1030      1901       1092       1003      1094       1095       1900      1997       I0D8      1090       2000 2001-2020
InvestmentCbsts (t/                        0       1193       7254      8123       5261       3642       2422       370        80m      2858          0
Operating (bsb (21                          0         0          0          0         0          0          0       00         079        570       676        747        747       747        747       747        747       747
Maln5tnanceCosb (3/                         0         0          0          0         0          0          0       207        414       037        037        837        537       637        837       837       4311      1472
TotalEmnommc sts             0       1193       7254      8123       5261       3642      2422       1183       1096      4265       1513       1504       1584      1584       1584      1584       5058      2219
lnaermentalNelEconornmeenel.is (4/          0         0          0          0         0          0          0      1524       3394       3611      5057       0660       6660      G6e8       6660      0660       660       6660
Ul
BslanceforDiscounl            0     -1193     -7254      -8123      -5261      -3642      -2422       341       1498      -654       4144       5078       5070      5078       5078      5078       1802      4441
ER11           9 12%
1/ Sou,ce: Annex I Tdabe 5e4 usld by SCf.
21 Opr. atkaoss hchde eperal-r coss of lteepLxrpk
statrm  (Atnn  I. Table t  d fie haemertalop ;xhgcosbof he
riesrservices pex I. lable 6). ed)oed by Ire SCF.
3t SoLjcce tmrex I* Table 5. aijurlad by tihe SCF.
4t SoLuice. Tame ii.



MOROCCO: Small and Hediun-Scale Irrigation Project
(Loan 2253-MOR) - Project Conpletion Report
Part III: Allnex 2: Note on Fconomic Analysis
Table 16.  Cash Flow for Economic Rate of Return  - Whole Project (Constant 1993  000 Dil)
1904      195        1906      197         90n      1900 I6w liw         ID91       1992       1993      1994       1095       l9G9      1997       Io9       19o9      20U0     2001-
s____l___N_____;-o________i___---___                                                                                                                                                    2020
- C7ICiGAOUA                           0       6134      4241       9203     13006       9324      2462       1096       2237        143         0
- souss                            15035       6110      2044       2629      lI123     77196     67091      82918      49293     13722          0
-JEMAASA1iIM                           0       1193      7254       9123      5251       3642      2422        370        we9      20s5          0
- GlIOSS                               0          0     21834      12125      19742      5429      4671       1555       1121       802          0
Sub-blal                 15035      13437     35373      32700     49012      05991     7G464      95609     52459      17915          0
- CII(CAWOUA                           0          0         0          0         0          0 o        0 o0                00        eo         0o         e0        0o         ao        e0          0        GO        e0
- souss                                0          0 0             0              0          0          0         0       7133      9273       9966      11412     14295      14265     14265      14265     14205     19600                U,
-JEMAASAII9M                           a          0         a          0         0          0          0       606        976       570        076        747       747        747       747        747       747       747
- GIIS                                 0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0        36        3a          39        36         36        36         38        36        38
Sub-btlW                     0         0          0          0         0          0        e0        r66      7909       0061      10700     12277      15130      15130     15130     15130      15130     19725
MBUILtNwIESQCLQS
- CiuCIAOUA                            0          0         0          0         0          0        153       306        621       621        e21       621        921        621       e2t       621        621       029
- Souss                                0          0         0          0         0          0          a         0        30M       612       1035       1035      1035       1035      1035       1035      1035      4576
-JEiAASAMOM                            0          0         0          0          0         0          0       207        414       837        637        037       837        937       837        931      4311       1472
- GIIESS                               0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0       307        774       1557      1557       1557      1557       1557      4221       1923
Sub-bLtI                     0          0         0          0         0          0        153       513       1341      2457       3267      40.0       4050      4050       4050      4050      10196      65sc
_I llnAL IAANAGEwNI UNII               0          0         0        120        220       220        440       loo          0
TOTALCosb                       15035      13437     35373      32660     50032      96011      77319    o00o        61699     30033      14047      16327     19100      19190    i191o       19190     25318     2022S
tlLQE LLeilAt ECOOMUft2ECfJ1
-C74XCEAOUI                            0          0         0          0O        0          0      1043     I1X14      14136     1n92r      10527     10527      19527      19927     16257      18527     10527     19527
- s0ouss                               0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0      133:9     34744      55207     75619    90/59       97734      87734     07734      07734     97134
- J EMAA SAI IIM                       0          0         0          0                    O 0       0       1524      3304       3011       5057     o61o        66lo0     6000       CGO       60000     066O       6GCO
- GICI1SS                              0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0         .99     1271       4212      5937       6473      1093       7003      7073       70W3      7M3
ToI.l1l '411.                0          6         0         0          0          0      37)43     o5sn      31967      961.10    03703    10G942    116419    121924    129924    120924    129924    129924
UALLAtCf.fC1nDltCSQtiL            -15035    -13437    -35373    -3ZO0       - nn32   -69611   -74770   -774r0    -20602           70105      011690    90615      69239    110744    110744    110744    104001    101099
Enn           1348l
ouwce lablm 12. 13, 14 a.d Is



,12                         ,10                          1                                                          4                            2'
-36'                                                                                                                             TANGER @
MOROCCO                                                                                             TETOUAN
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                                  NORTH                  ALHOCEIMA             NADOR
PROJET DE DEVELOPPMENT DE LA PETITE ET                                                                      LARACHE@  WES T @CHAOEN ( GHISS1
MOYENNE HYDRAUUUQUE AGRICOLE
OUEZZANE                                              OUJDA)
LOCATIONOF SUBPROJECTS                                                                               O                                                     O .
LOCALISATION  DES SOUS PROJETS                                                                                       MIDDLE  TACUNAT/
SIDI    BOU   TONT
KENITRA      KACEM                         STAZA                                            3 
A   SUBPROJECT LOCATIONS (n.4A                                                                                  0@ES    1.A  
*   SUBPROJECT CANCELED (n. I )MOHAMJIEDIA                                                             MEKNRS      0 SEFROU
-34'
-34                         ~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS                                           CASABLANCA@,FAE@                                       S        
ELEVATIONS ABOVE 1,000 METERS                                                                  .         @FRANE0'  
BERRECHIOD                ___     ALROU
@   PROVINCE CAPITALS                                ELJADIDA@         B     I                                                                                        I
j  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                 SETTAT@              OUED         ',                             
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                             @      *ZEM                     !------'-
KHOURIBGA                        ,
- -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
*-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY (APPROXIMATE                                                       -KASBATADLA"                                         , -                        I
SAF   JEMAA
S   A JIM                          BENI MELLAL                                                                                 32-  -  -
EL KELAA               -
DES                                    -)
32,                            0    35   50   75    MOAlesDSR N @                                                                                 ,SERRACHIDIA\               _ 
-32~~~~~ O                  5    53    7      OMII                                                                         1'    -       K.                   #
0  25  50  75  00 K,ls                                               @           - .      ,                                           J
CI-IvHAOU    MARRAKECH   ---
CHIO-AOLIA
OUARZAZATE .                                         -
--
TAROUDANNIA
AGADIR            SOUss                                                                                                                     30 
TIZNIT                                          APIRO    M
The  onais
CANARY                                                                         r'                                                                                                     -rafioOf sho  a,
-on she  pat of The 2
3(W{Spain)                                                                  Wj,d Bk G-W
ay jdg-e as t
legal statu   l any 
<   -25                                                                                                                                                                                               errr,    r  ay-
VA                                  2'                            to'                                                           6'                                                            2,                     CD'









IM AG I 1C G
Repc,rt No:        14676;
Type: PCR



