Document of                            FILE CO |
The World Bank                             L   X
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3476-MOB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN'
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$42 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
March 7, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Dirham (DH)
US$l = DH 5.65
DH 1 = US$0.16
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADA              Association of Agricultural Development
CMU              Central Management Unit
CNCA             National Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole)
DPA              Provincial Directorate of Agriculture
(Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture)
INRA             National Institute for Agricultural Research
(Institut National de la Recherche Agricole)
LSI              Large-Scale Irrigation
MARA             Ministry of Agriculture
(Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la Reforme Agraire)
ORMVASM          Regional Office for Agricultural Development for Souss-Massa
(Organisation Regionale pour la-Mise en Valeur Agricole de
Souss-Massa)
PCC              Project Coordinating Committee
RCC              Regional Coordinating Committee
SMSI             Small- and Medium-Scale Irrigation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:              US$42 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:               Amortization over seventeen years, including four years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives
and Description:  The proposed project aims at establishing a systematic
approach to the development of the hitherto neglected
small- and medium-scale irrigation subsector, which has
considerable potential for increasing agricultural
diversification, yields and production. The project would
finance the rehabilitation of three traditional irrigation
perimeters covering some 12,500 ba and the development of
two new perimeters with a total irrigated surface of about
5,300 ha. The project would also support complementary
infrastructure such as road construction, power supply and
on-farm development. The proposed investments would be
complemented by the introduction of a legal framework
ensuring that beneficiary farmers assume responsibility
for operation and maintenance of irrigation networks as
well as for reimbursing the Government for investment
costs to a degree commensurate with their earning
capacity. The project would also provide an opportunity
for the regional offices of the Ministry of Agriculture to
build up experience in planning, implementing and
monitoring the development of the subsector. The project
does not face any major risks apart from possible delays
which could occur in the formation of water users'
associations. However, this risk appears manageable in
light of the success achieved, in this respect, in one of
the project perimeters (Souss) during 1982 and in view of
long-standing practices of cooperation among farmers in
traditional irrigation perimeters based on universal
appreciation of the need to carefully manage scarce water
resources.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost Estimates                         Local    Foreign    Total
…(u--(US  Million)…-----
Irrigation infrastructure                  31.5      24.1       55.6
of which:  Souss                      (11.9)      (9.2)    (21.1)
Middle Sebou               (14.8)    (11.5)    (26.3)
Ghiss                       (2.5)      (1.7)     (4.2)
Cbichaoua                   (1.4)      (0.9)     (2.3)
Jemaa Sahim                 (0.9)      (0.8)     (1.7)
Support costs                               6.6       4.1       10.7
On-farm investments                         0.6        0.5       1.1
Central Mon. and Eval. Unit                 0.5        0.6       1.1
Total Base Cost                      39.2       29.3       68.5
Physical contingencies                      5.3        4.1       9.4
Price contingencies                        14.7        8.7      23.4
Total Project Cost                   59.2       42.1      101.3 1/
Front-end fee on Bank loan                  -          0.3        0.3
Total Required Financing                   59.2       42.4     101.6
Financing Plan
IBRD                                            -         42.0      42.0
Government                                     56.4        -         56.4
CNCA (Nat. Agric. Cred. Bank)                   0.6        0.4        1.0
Beneficiaries                                   2.2        -          2.2
Total                                      59.2      42.4      101.6
Estimated disbursements:    ---------------------US$ Million--------------
Fiscal year                    1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Annual                          2.8    3.9    9.4   11.4    8.6    5.9
Cumulative                      2.8    6.7   16.1   27.5   36.1   42.0
Economic Rate of Return:    15%
Appraisal Report:             Staff Appraisal Report No. 4197MOR
dated February 10, 1983
1/ Includes $27.5 million of duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR A
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Government of Morocco for the equivalent of US$42 million, including
the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a Small- and Medium-Scale
Irrigation Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A basic economic mission visited Morocco in November 1978, and
updating missions in September and December 1979 and in May 1980. A report
entitled "Morocco: Basic Economic Report" (3289-MOR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1980. A report on Morocco's Public Sector
Investment Program for 1981-85 is expected to be distributed to the Board
shortly. An economic mission on industrial incentives and export promotion
was in Morocco in September 1982. Country and Economic Data Sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed with
natural resources. Morocco has the world's largest and most easily
recoverable phosphate reserves, whicb makes the phosphate sector a key export
sector. Other minerals such as iron ore, manganese, lead and zinc are also
exported, but in much smaller amounts. Coal and hydropower plants satisfy
only a small part of the country's energy requirements, but Morocco has some
uranium and oil shale resources which could become significant energy sources
in the long term. There are moreover preliminary indications of natural gas
reserves. Morocco has also a relatively good agricultural potential. In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
migration with the EEC countries.
1/ Parts I and II are essentially the same as in the Oulmes-Rommani
Agricultural Development Project (Report No. P-3413-MOR of November 22,
1982).



4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco, and GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. A relatively weak savings effort and
conservative external borrowing policies permitted only a slow rise in the
share of resources allocated to investment. Morocco thus entered the 1970s
with no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.
Although some industrialization had taken place, over half of the labor force
was employed in the relatively inefficient traditional agricultural sector,
and primary products accounted for close to 90% of merchandise exports, with
phosphates representing about a quarter of the total.
Economic Expansion in the Mid-1970s
5.       During the 1970s, economic policy became more ambitious, and the
original 1973-77 Development Plan strategy stressed an intensified savings
effort and development of exports. In 1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate
prices, phosphate export earnings more than quadrupled, and although the
petroleum import bill also quadrupled in 1974, the current account of the
balance of payments remained in surplus. The Plan's concern for exports and
savings lost some of its urgency. The Government launched a massive public
investment program which brought about a sharp acceleration in the rate of
growth of the economy, and GDP grew at the rate of 6.7% per year between
1973-1977. The expansion of the investment program also led to a considerable
increase in demand for imported goods and services, whose share in GDP doubled
from 19% in 1972 to 37% in 1977.
6.       The phosphate boom, bowever, was shortlived and phosphate exports
started falling in both volume and value as early as mid-1975. Phosphate
prices continued to decline until 1980. Markets for other exports as well as
for tourism and labor migration were also negatively affected by the world
recession. Agricultural production and exports entered a period of prolonged
stagnation and Morocco turned from a net exporter to a net importer of
foodstuffs. As a result of all these factors, the growtb of exports of goods
and nonfactor services, which in constant prices had exceeded 8% a year in
1968-72, averaged only 1% a year in 1973-77.
7.       Accelerated investment, growing public expenditures, and particularly
increased defense spending in response to growing tensions in the Western
Sahara, created strong pressures on both the balance of payments and the
Government budget. While investment jumped from about 15% of GDP in the early
1970s to 32% in 1977, gross domestic savings rose briefly from 15% of GDP in
1972 to 20% of GDP in 1974 thanks to phosphate receipts, but fell back to
10-12% in 1976-77. The large resource gap which emerged as early as 1975 rose
to an unsustainable 20% of GDP in 1977 (in current prices). To help finance
the gap, Morocco borrowed heavily from the international capital market, which
led to rapid increases in external debt and the debt service burden. The debt
service ratio rose from 5.6% of exports of goods and services in 1975 to 10.7%
in 1977.



- 3 -
8.       The Government's overall budget position also deteriorated
considerably during the period 1973-77. While budgetary revenues increased
rapidly as a result of the windfall phosphate profits in 1974 and 1975 and of
the growth of import duties and taxes in following years (reaching 22% of GDP
in 1977), the growth of expenditure far exceeded that of revenues. Budgetary
outlays rose from 19% of GDP in 1972 to 39% in 1977. As a result, the
Government's overall budget deficit increased sharply, reaching peaks of 18%
of GDP in 1976 and 1977.
Stabilization Program 1978-1980
9.       In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a three-year stabilization program,
characterized by a substantial retrenchment of investment and import levels.
In 1978, the first year of the adjustment, public investment was cut back by
nearly half in real terms and the growth of current budgetary expenditure held
down to 3% (in real terms). These measures of fiscal restraint were combined
with tight credit policies and stringent import controls. As a result, the
overall budget deficit declined to about 10% of GDP and the external payments
situation improved in 1978. Later, however, the stabilization program
encountered a number of obstacles, including poor harvests, petroleum price
increases and the rise in interest on the commercial debt. In addition,
internal pressures led to some relaxation of the highly restrictive fiscal
policy adopted in 1978. By 1980 both fiscal and external imbalances were
still substantial; the resource gap (in current prices) remained at about 11%
of GDP, and the ratio of the overall budget deficit to GDP at about 12%.
10.      The reduction in the Government deficit during the 1978-80 period was
achieved chiefly through cutbacks in the level of budgetary investments, which
dropped from 27% of GDP in 1977 to 12% in 1980. The growth of current
expenditure proved difficult to restrain because of the continuing need to
maintain defense and social expenditures, the growing interest payments on the
public debt and the rising cost of consumption subsidies. The latter tripled
in 1979-80 reaching 2% of GDP, as price increases for subsidized staple food
and petroleum products could not catch up with the rise in import costs for
these products. Reflecting these pressures, the growth of current expenditure
reached 27% in 1980 and their share of GDP represented 22%.
11.      In the external sector, non-oil imports were reduced substantially
and remained below the 1977 level in nominal terms due to a sharp reduction in
capital goods imports (by about two-thirds in real terms between 1977 and
1980). Oil imports on the other hand increased 2.5 times in value due to
price and volume increases. Export earnings improved in 1979 and received a
significant boost from the recovery of phosphate prices in 1980.  Thus,
despite a large increase in the petroleum import bill and a rise in external
debt interest payments, the current account deficit before grants was reduced
from $1.8 billion, or 17% of GDP, in 1977 to about $1.4 billion, or 8% of GDP,
in 1980.



- 4 -
12.      The adverse impact of the stabilization program on employment bas
probably been substantial in contrast with the rapid rate of employment
creation during 1973-77. On the whole, the policies followed since 1.978 have
had a high cost in terms of growth and employment and appear to have been only
partly successful in their short-term stabilization objectives.
Recent Developments
13.      In 1981, the economy was subjected to strong external shocks:  a
substantial increase of imports of cereals, following a drought which reduced
agricultural value added by about 23% in real terms; a large appreciation of
the US dollar; and a rise in foreign interest rates, which further increased
the cost of debt service. As a result of these factors, economic and
financial performance worsened. Gross domestic product fell by 1.3% in real
terms, the Treasury deficit reached 14% of GDP in 1981, and the current
account deficit reached $1.9 billion in 1981 (12.6% of GDP). Economic
activity improved in 1982 as agricultural production recovered thanks to a
good harvest, but phosphate prices weakened. adversely affecting export
earnings. GDP is estimated to have increased by 5 to 6% in real terms but the
external payments situation has not improved significantly. The budgetary
situation improved somewhat as a result of a combination of tax increases and
expenditure restraining the measures adopted in the framework of a stand-by
agreement reached with the IMF in April 1982, but the Treasury deficit remains
high.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      The initial development strategy in the 1981-85 Plan period was to
reach a high rate of GDP growth (6.5%), needed to obtain an acceleration of
employment creation and a strengthening of Government programs for social and
regional development. The Plan projection was, however, too ambitious and
although the financial constraint lessened somewhat in 1982 as the economy
recovers from the 1981 drought, Morocco's external financial situation will
remain difficult in 1982-85 and will continue to constrain GDP growth.
15.      Bank projections for the 1981-85 Plan period are based on the
assumption that exports of goods and non-factor services could grow by 5.8% in
real terms, while imports of goods and non-factor services would be allowed to
rise by no more than 0.5% p.a. in real terms, as the need for food imports is
expected to diminish, the increase in capital goods and oil imports to slow
down, and payments for military equipment to be lower. Moreover, the growth
in investment expenditures would not exceed 3.1% p.a. in real terms. Given
these assumptions, domestic savings could recover from the abnormally low 1981
level (7.8% of GDP) to reach 12.5 % of GDP in 1985, the resource gap would
gradually decline from 13.3% of GDP in 1981 to 7.5% in 1985, while GDP could
still grow at about 4.5% p.a. in real terms or just over 1% per capita.
16.      The projected export growth would result from an increase (in real
terms) of 6.6% in phosphate and phosphate based products and 9.5% p.a. in
manufactured products between 1981-85. Such a performance would depend upon



-5-
identification of new markets and could be accomplished only if high priority
is given to export promotion. In the case of finished and intermediate
products, the extent to which the projected increase in exports would
materialize depends on the revision of incentives granted to exporters, the
diversification of Moroccan exports towards non-traditional exports and new
markets, and the appropriate level of the exchange rate.
17.      A sustained reduction of the trade gap will be difficult to achieve
unless growth of merchandise imports is drastically curtailed. This would
require not only a higher increase in agricultural output so that the level of
food imports would decline in real terms, but also an effective domestic
pricing policy so as to limit the growth of petroleum imports (assumed at 1.3%
p.a.) from 1981 to 1985. It would require moreover a reduction of the capital
goods imports growth to 1.8% p.a. in 1981-85 through cuts in Treasury civilian
investment with respect to the level planned in the 1981-85 Plan, and a
revision of the various investment codes so as to reduce financial incentives
to imported capital goods.
18.      In view of the projected stagnation in per capita household incomes,
any significant increase in domestic savings would mainly come from
substantial improvements in Government savings performance. As part of the
1982 stand-by arrangement between Morocco and the IMF, several measures and
reductions in real Government expenditures were implemented in 1982. The
Bank's projections assume that progress will continue in this area.
19.      Given the strong constraints on investment levels, the future rate of
growth of the economy will depend to a large extent on the sectoral allocation
and the efficiency of investment. In conformity with the Plan objectives, the
Government should start fewer large capital-intensive projects and restrict
the allocation of investments to priority subsectors.   Priority is to be
given to projects that are export oriented, less capital intensive and which
use a greater proportion of domestic resources. In addition, particular
attention will have to be paid by the Government to manpower planning and to
the employment effect of investments in order to prevent unemployment from
rising.
Social Development
20.      Social expenditures have been at a high level in recent years,
accounting for more than half of current outlays. However, social indicators
still appear to be at a relatively low level in Morocco. The limited
effectiveness of past social policies in reaching the lower income groups,
especially in rural areas, is increasingly recognized as a major issue, and
the strategy of the 1981-85 Development Plan emphasizes rural development in
rainfed areas, where most of the poorest households in Morocco currently live,
and the need to improve mechanisms for delivering services to meet basic needs
at an affordable cost, especially in rural areas. An effort is also being
made to increase the involvement of local communities in meeting basic needs,
particularly for low cost housing, water supply, sewerage and
electrification. Although rapid results cannot be expected in any of these



areas, implementation of these policies would help meet the needs of
low-income groups, while holding down the budgetary cost of social programs.
External Debt and Debt Service
21.      Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974.  Nearly all
of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. Morocco also drew on
the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and obtained about $70
million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. In October 1980, the
IMF approved an extended arrangement for a three-year period in the amount of
SDR 810 million in support of a medium term program of financial adjustment.
This arrangement was interrupted in 1981 when it appeared that the assumptions
and targets of the EFF program were no longer possible. It was replaced in
1982 by a stand-by arrangement in the amount of SDR 281 million and purchase
of SDR 236 million under the Compensatory Financing Facility. The 1982
financial program, which was supported by the standby arrangement now drawing
to a close, sought to reduce the deficit in the current account of the balance
of payments (excluding grants) to 10% of GDP and to decrease the overall
Treasury deficit by one-third to 8% of GDP. Other major elements of the
program included an upward revision of the interest rate structure, restraint
in overall credit and monetary expansion, further trade liberalization, and
progress with respect to both tax reform and reform of the state enterprises.
Preliminary data indicates that the targets under the standby for end-1982
were met. The performance criteria of the program were observed and Morocco
was able to make the last drawing under the standby arrangement in February
1983. Discussions are underway of a possible further standby arrangement for
1983/84.
22.      From the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose rapidly
to $8.4 billion (disbursed only) by December 1981. Gross inflow of medium and
long term capital reached $1.8 billion in 1981. Debt service amounted to $1.2
billion in 1980, $1.3 billion in 1981 and $1.5 billion in 1982 (27%, 31% and
35% respectively, of total exports of goods and services). As a result of
recent and projected borrowings, debt service may be expected to average $1.8
billion annually during 1982-85. Because of the growing burden of debt
service, external borrowing has become more restrictive and selective since
1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, the Government will have to
continue this policy over the next few years while taking special measures to
expand exports.
23.      Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources to
Morocco rose from $205 million in 1975 to Wl368 million in 1978. In 1979-80
they have averaged $700-800 million a year (excluding grants). In 1981 they
are estimated at $1759 million. Major sources of aid were France, Saudi
Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At the end of 1981,
the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was 7.5%. The share of the Bank Group in debt service was 21% in 1976
and declined to 15% in 1977, and 7% in 1981. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares
in debt outstanding and in debt service are projected at about 10 and 11%
respectively.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
24.      Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 58 projects, financing
a total of $1,988.5 million (net of cancellations), of which $1,164.5 million
has been lent since the beginning of FY1978. IDA credits, totalling
$50 million, have been made available for five projects and a Third Window
loan for $25 million has been made for an education project. IFC investments
have amounted to $61.6 million ($42.7 million after cancellations,
terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments and notes on the execution of
ongoing IBRD/IDA projects as of September 30, 1982. Overall performance in
project execution is satisfactory, although in some cases, delays in project
implementation have been caused by management problems and budgetary
constraints.
25.      Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural and
industrial sectors, which have accounted for 28 percent and 26 percent,
respectively of total commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (16
percent), tourism (9 percent), education (8 percent), roads (6 percent),
energy (4 percent) and urban development (3 percent). The main objectives of
Bank lending in previous years were to foster and strengthen development
institutions and to increase productive capacity, in order to improve the
balance of payments. While these objectives remain, Bank lending now also
focuses on supporting a number of other policy objectives: to contribute to
the reduction of the Treasury deficits; to lower unit costs for the delivery
of basic services, widen their distribution among regions and increase access
by lower-income groups; and to increase employment and improve income
distribution.
26.      Since FY75, lending in agriculture has emphasized improvement in the
productivity of rainfed agriculture and livestock, which employ over 80
percent of the rural population, primarily small farmers. The Meknes and
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Projects address this objective in the favorable
cereal producing zone. The Loukkos, Middle Atlas, Forestry and Oulmes-Rommani
projects extend support to less favorably endowed regions. Four lines of
credit to Caisse Nationale de Cr4dit Agricole (CNCA) have helped provide
credit to farmers, and a fifth project is under preparation.   Increased
export earnings are expected to result from the Bank-supported project for
Vegetable Marketing and Production, as well as from a project currently under
preparation to improve the efficiency of the coastal fishing industry. The
scope of future lending is likely to be expanded to include projects aimed at
improving input supply and marketing nationwide.
27.      Increased foreign exchange earnings or savings have also been the key
objectives of Bank projects in industry, mining and tourism and led to nine
lines of credit to the Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Economique
(BNDE) for industrial projects and four lines of credit to Cr4dit Immobilier
et H8telier (CIH) for tourism projects. A project to increase mineral export
earnings and raise the incomes of small-scale miners in southeastern Morocco
was approved by the Board in FY82.



- 8 -
28.      Projects in basic infrastructure and services have concentrated on
improving the efficiency of existing investments and extending services to
rural and low-income urban groups. A second urban development project aims at
supporting the Government's efforts to provide shelter, basic services and
employment to low-income urban families. A third highway project supports the
Government's road maintenance efforts and a fourth project now being prepared
would continue this effort and improve rural access roads. A loan for village
electrification is helping bring power to over a hundred small towns and
villages, and a third water supply project is providing access to safe water
in small towns and semi-rural areas. A project aimed at strengthening the
Communal Infrastructure Fund's (FEC) capacity to support local communities is
being prepared.
29.      Five education projects have focused on secondary level technical
education and teacher training, on expanding basic education in the rural
areas and on ensuring a greater orientation in primary schooling towards
practical training. Further lending will be focussed on vocational training
and on primary education.
30.      In order to reduce Morocco's dependence on oil imports, the
Government has made considerable efforts to develop national resources,
notably of gas and oil sbale. These efforts are being supported by the Bank
through a gas exploration project and an engineering project aimed at studying
the viability of developing the country's oil shale resources. Additional
projects for further gas exploration, as well as coal and hydropower
development, are being studied.
31.      Morocco's disbursement performance improved in FY82.  Disbursement
shortfalls are, however, still being experienced, particularly for a few
projects in new sectors, due mainly to institutional or project management
problems. These cases are being closely monitored and implementation
schedules have been established specifying critical actions, in agreement with
the Government. In some projects, implementing agencies have been slow in
submitting disbursement requests to the Ministry of Finance for transmittal to
the Bank, but the Government has recently taken effective measures to resolve
this problem. The rate of disbursement has also been affected by the
appreciation of the dollar against other currencies.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND THE SMALL-
AND MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
32.      Agricultural Sector Background.  About 60 percent of Morocco's
20 million inhabitants live in rural areas and their numbers are increasing by
about 1.8 percent per year as compared to a national average of 2.9 percent
annual population growth. In 1978-80 the agricultural sector contributed some
13 percent to GDP, 33 percent of total exports and employed about 40 percent
Morocco's labor force. Arable land covers about 7.7 million ha, while areas



- 9 -
suitable for forestry and grazing cover a further 20 million ha. About
5.8 million ha are cultivated each year, mainly under cereals (4.6 million
ha), pulses (500,000 ha), fruit trees (140,000 ha), and sugar beet
(60,000 ha). Most of Morocco's rainfed areas are characterized by traditional
agricultural practices which result in low crop yields and low livestock
productivity. Permanent irrigation covers between 800,000 and 1,000,000 ha.
33.      Agricultural production has grown less rapidly than demand over the
past fifteen years leading to a rapid increase in imports. The value of food
imports during the same period has grown by about 21 percent per year while
that of exports has only grown by some 6 percent per year. Development in
agriculture has, however, been uneven. The introduction of modern farming
techniques coupled with attractive producer prices has, in the case of sugar
beet and cane, milk and vegetables, resulted in substantial increases in
production. On the other hand, crops such as cereals, cotton, pulses and
edible oils have yielded little or no increase in production due inter alia to
a combination of poor cultivation techniques and inadequate pricing and
marketing policies.
Irrigation Subsector
34.      The small- and medium-scale irrigation (SMSI) subsector has
historically been relatively neglected by the authorities. In the recent past
the Government has, however, given increased emphasis to the subsector which
offers opportunities both for substantial increases in agricultural production
and for relieving poverty among small holders. The present five-year
Development Plan thus foresees a fivefold increase of investments in the
subsector as compared to the previous plan. An increase in investment in SMSI
is well justified, given the potential economic and social impact of the
projects.
35.      Approximately 1 million ha of arable land are irrigated in Morocco
although only about 800,000 ha are under permanent irrigation, the remainder
being irrigated sporadically by desert floods, runoff water after violent
rainfall and oasis springs. The area under more or less permanent irrigation
is either identified as small- and medium-scale irrigation (SMSI) or as
large-scale irrigation (LSI). Large-scale irrigation projects are generally
new investments covering 10,000-20,000 ha or more. They involve large civil
works for regulating and conveying water, modern distribution systems and land
consolidation and they are managed by relatively independent, well-staffed
regional agricultural development offices (ORMVA). Morocco has 9 LSI
perimeters covering a potential 900,000 ha of which 560,000 ha have been
completed.
36.      The SMSI subsector covers perimeters ranging from a few hectares to
several thousand, and is divided into two main categories:
(i)    Modern SMSI perimeters are technically similar to large-scale
projects and involve land consolidation, construction of new irrigation
networks with rectangular grid lay-out and predetermined crop rotation. They



- 10 -
are usually introduced in rainfed areas with potential access to secure
sources of river water or exploitable underground water. It is estimated that
some 100,000 ha of rainfed areas are suitable for development as modern SMSI
perimeters. Development costs fall in the range between $3,500 and $5,300 per
hectare and benefits are quite high. Perimeters which are legally delimited
as modern perimeters are covered by the Agricultural Investment Code of 1969
which inter alia provides for recovery of operations and maintenance costs and
up to 40 percent of investment costs.
(ii)    Traditional SMSI perimeters are almost invariably located in areas
where irrigation has been practiced for centuries usually on the basis of
springs, resurgences, or river water diverted by small dams which are rebuilt
by the farmers after each flood period. Water is distributed through
intricate rustic canals (where water losses are frequently high) on the basis
of inherited water rights which are often not written down, but nevertheless
respected by the farmers. Farms in these perimeters are predominantly very
small and fragmented. Rehabilitation costs average about $l,400 to $3,500 per
hectare and consist of constructing concrete intake structures, lining canals,
installing permanent outlets and leveling and draining where necessary.
Rehabilitation does not normally involve land consolidation but relies on
traditional water rights. Substantial profits can be derived from these
investments primarily due to reduction of water losses (frequently between 25
and 45 percent), permitting higher yields and more intensive cropping and
occasionally extension of the cultivated areas. Since costs are normally
lower than in the modern perimeters, the economic rates of return tend to be
higher. Traditional perimeters are not covered by the Agricultural Investment
Code, and while the farmers in these perimeters normally take full
responsibility for operation and maintenance of the network through their own
labor, a mechanism would have to be developed to ensure that they also
contribute to expenditures for operations and maintenance financed by the
Government, and a reasonable portion of investment costs. It is estimated
that some 500,000 ha are covered by traditional SMSI perimeters.
37.      Modernization of the SMSI subsector in Morocco faces more social and
institutional than technical problems: water user rigbts; diverging interests
between upstream farmers with relatively more abundant water and downstream
farms; collectively held land; increasing fragmentation of land; inadequate
institutional and legal structures to ensure adequate operation and cost
recovery, all influence the pace and design of SMSI investments. These are a
few obstacles which are particularly pervasive:
(i)    Fragmentation of land holdings.  In most traditional SMSI perimeters
land fragmentation is extreme and aggravated by inheritance laws allowing for
further division of land in already very densely populated perimeters. On the
other hand, the practical and social difficulties of carrying out a successful
land consolidation program are so formidable that insistence upon such a
program could easily lead to abandoning efforts to rebabilitate many of the
traditional perimeters. Since rehabilitation can be economically justified
anyway, although benefits will be smaller, the authorities frequently choose
to undertake rehabilitation within the limitations of existing patterns of



- II 
land holdings. This approach appears realistic and the Bank supports its
realization, provided that the economic rate of return is satisfactory for
each perimeter. The land consolidation issue is less difficult in modern SMSI
perimeters where land fragmentation is less severe and traditional water
rights are nonexistent, and the prospects of substantial benefits, following
introduction of permanent irrigation, tend to be enough to persuade the
farmers of the benefits of land consolidation.
(ii)    Public land ownership linked to private and collective usufruct.  In
some cases farmers occupy or rent land owned by the Government under a variety
of different arrangements. Usufruct and rental arrangements on low-yielding,
rainfed land do not present any major problems and cultivation practices tend
to follow age-old patterns. On the other hand, it appears clear that the
inevitable ambiguity in land control and owner obligations could hecome a
problem following a drastic improvement in land value due to the introduction
of permanent irrigation. Within the project only about 200 ha fall in this
category and the Government intends to transfer these lands to the farmers who
are presently cultivating them.
(iii)   Water rights.  Water rights, whether private or communal, are nearly
invariably based on centuries of practice and have therefore assumed
considerable complexity. While such arrangements may be adequate under the
subsistence conditions prevailing before rehabilitation, they need to be
replaced by more concrete arrangements to ensure that the new installations
are adequately operated and maintained and that participating farmers make
reasonable contributions to operations and maintenance activities undertaken
by Government agencies and to the investments made by the Government. This
would be achieved through contracts to be signed between the Government and
the farmers, organized into water users' associations. (See further paras.
53, 54, and 55.)
38.      Bank Agricultural Sector Strategy.  Over recent years, the Bank has
supported the Government's objectives of increasing agricultural production
whherever economically justified and, for economic as well as social reasons,
of placing emphasis on the development of rainfed areas, where a large
untapped potential exists. The Bank's strategy for the coming years is to
increasingly support the Government's efforts to assist the medium- and
small-scale farmers who cover large areas of Morocco's arable land and where
productivity has to increase dramatically if Morocco is to achieve its
objectives to reduce its present dependency on imported food. To reach this
objective the Bank envisages further projects in rainfed and small- and
medium-scale irrigation, and agricultural credit. Furthermore, projects are
under preparation to strengthen research and extension services, to improve
seed and fertilizer distribution and to handle, market and store cereals.
39.      Performance Under Previous Bank Financed Agricultural Projects.  Bank
Group lending for agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and to date 18 projects
have been supported by $621.5 million in Bank/IDA funds. They include six



- 12 -
irrigation projects (three of which are completed) and five rainfed projects;
a vegetable production and marketing project; and a forestrv project; and four
credit projects. Project performance to date is generally satisfactory,
although irrigation projects suffered initially from poor coordination between
and within participating ministries, which resulted in delays in construction
and in acquisition of irrigation equipment. A major issue has been inadequate
cost-recovery, but a recent increase in irrigation water charges of about 100
percent should, together with the implementation of the proposals included
under the present project, contribute to its eventual solution. A Project
Performance Audit Report has been prepared for the Sebou I Project (FY70) and
for the Doukkala I Irrigation Project (FY76). In the case of Sebou I, the
report stresses the project's success in institution building as well as in
increasing production through the provision of adequate infrastructure. It
also highlights the importance of successful extension, timely allocation of
funds, and collection of water charges. In the case of Doukkala I, the
project was successfully completed with a rate of return that exceeded
appraisal estimates. The report also stresses the effective irrigation
network design, strong management and adequate extension. Both projects were
also successful in reducing land fragmentation, thus facilitating the
introduction of improved cropping systems. Among rainfed agriculture
projects, which are mostly still at an early stage of execution,
implementation has also been satisfactory so far, with the exception of the
Meknes Project which has encountered very substantial delays. The major issue
has been difficulties in establishing the land consolidation and
redistribution program, this being the first time these measures have been
attempted in a rainfed area in Morocco. This has now been overcome and the
implementation of the consolidation program is underway with substantial
support of the population.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.      The project, which was identified by a joint Bank-FAO/CP mission in
1980, would be the Bank's first involvement in the small- and medium-scale
irrigation subsector in Morocco. The project is designed to realize some
specific development schemes included in the Five-Year National Development
Plan while helping the Government to establish a systematic approach to
further development of SMSI projects. The project was prepared by the
Government with FAO/CP assistance, and after appraisal in June and October
1982, negotiations were held in Washington in January 1983. The Moroccan
delegation was led by Mr. Belkoura of the Prime Minister's Office. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 4197-MOR) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. The main features of the proposed loan are presented in
the Loan and Project Summary, and key events, as well as special conditions,
are listed in Annex III.



- 13 -
Project Objectives
41.      The long-term objective of the Government is to realize the potential
for increasing agricultural production, yields and rural income bv
rehabilitating and developing the SMSI subsector, which could cover several
hundred thousand hectares widely distributed throughout the country. The
immediate objective of the project is to undertake the necessary investments
on some 17,800 ha and to establish a systematic approach to future
development. This latter objective would include measures ensuring that
future beneficiaries make reasonable contributions to the development and/or
rehabilitation costs and would also include the preparation and execution of
future SMSI projects.
Project Description
42.      The project area includes five SMSI perimeters in widely separated
parts of Morocco. These perimeters have different types of water sources and
are located in three different climatic zones, all of which, however, have dry
hot summers and irregular rainfall. The project would include:
(i)    rehabilitation of three traditional irrigation perimeters (Chichaoua,
Ghiss and Souss) totaling about 12,500 ha;
(ii)    development of two modern irrigation perimeters (Middle Sebou and
Jemaa Sahim) totaling an area of about 5,300 ha;
(iii)   support services and technical assistance to the relevant regional
directorates of the Ministry of Agriculture (MARA) and to its Central
Management Unit; and
(iv)    technical assistance and on-farm investments in the project
perimeters.
Project Area and Irrigation Infrastructure
43.      The rehabilitation of three traditional perimeters would involve:
(i)    Chichaoua, covering some 1,900 ha on the northern piedmont of the
Atlas Mountains, some 80 km west of the city of Marrakech. This perimeter has
been cultivated and irrigated for centuries. The irrigation network was
reinforced with concrete in the 1940s and has since then fallen into
considerable disrepair resulting in high water losses and inequitable
distribution of water between the farms. Land holdings in the perimeter,
which is inhabited by some 14,400 people, average 1.13 ha with 70 percent
being below 1 ha. Most holdings are privately owned. In this perimeter,
57 km of deteriorated canals would be lined in concrete or rehabilitated. Two
syphons, with a combined length of 450 m would be built, a drainage network
would be constructed, and about 56 km of unsurfaced roads would be
rehabilitated.



- 14 -
(ii)    Ghiss, covering about 780 ha on the Mediterranean coast.  The
irrigation perimeter which depends on diversion of water from the Ghiss river,
has been cultivated for centuries. The present, deteriorated channels were
lined with concrete in the 1930s. All land on the perimeter is privately
owned and the average size of the holdings is 0.8 ha and almost 80 percent of
the farms are smaller than 1 ha. There are about 9,600 persons in the area.
This perimeter would be expanded from about 780 to 920 ha through the
construction of some 52 km of concrete-lined canals, a new diversion weir in
the Ghiss River and a concrete-lined conveyance canal of about 4 km linking
the weir to the perimeter. Buried-pipe drainage would be installed and a
collector would be built to divert excess rainwater from the perimeter. Flood
protection dikes and a 6-km long interconnector canal to the adjacent Nekor
perimeter would be built.
(iii)   Souss, covering about 9,650 ha, is the largest perimeter covered by
the project.  It is located in the southwestern part of Morocco in the 150 km
long Souss valley which separates the Atlas and the Anti-Atlas mountains. The
subproject would be the first phase in a program aimed at rehabilitating
22,000 ha of traditional irrigation perimeters in the Souss Valley. Earlier,
this area had been irrigated by the diversion of stream resurgences but these
have been steadily drying up and at least one-third of the area is currently
under rainfed cultivation. Most of the land is privately owned and the
average farm size is 2.8 ha and there are almost 49,000 people living in the
area. Under the project, dependence on resurgences would be abandoned and
water would be provided from pumping of ground water through wells and
tubewells. The present network of traditional earth channels would be
replaced by 125 km of concrete canals, and the existing concrete canals would
be relined. The canal network would be served by about 13 wells, 60 tubewells
and 25 pumping stations totalling about 4,000 km. About 53 km of power supply
lines would be constructed and related equipment provided. Some 60 km of
unsurfaced roads would be improved.
44.      The development of two modern perimeters would involve:
(i)    Middle Sebou, covering about 4,870 ha in north-central Morocco, some
60 km northwest of the city of Fes. The perimeter, which is located within
the meanders of the Sebou River and is dispersed over some 28 terraces, would
be irrigated by water being pumped from the Sebou River. The average size of
the approximately 1,500 holdings is 3.15 ha and the number of persons in the
area is about 14,800. All land in the perimeter is privately owned (except
for some 200 ha mentioned in para. 37 (ii). Eleven pumping stations, totaling
about 2,500 kw would be constructed to provide an aggregate flow of water of
about 6,000 liters per second to the new gravity perimeter. About 80 km of
power supply lines would be installed and related equipment provided.
Thirteen regulating reservoirs would be provided as would concrete canals of
about 190 km and an interceptor and a collection system to divert runoff
water. Land would be levelled and consolidated. About 300 km of roads would
be constructed or upgraded, and 32 km would be asphalted.
(ii)    Jemaa Sahim, covering about 410 ha on the Atlantic coast some 180 km
southwest of Casablanca. This small perimeter will be developed as a modern
perimeter, but because of its small size, it will not be legally delimited as
a perimeter subject to the Agricultural Investment Code (see para. 36). The



- 15 -
perimeter will be fed by a guaranteed supply of water from the Safi canal
which is the main source of industrial and potable water for the city of
Safi. There are only about 1,800 people in the area and the average farm
covers some 2.15 ha. At this perimenter, a pumping station and a regulated
reservoir would be erected and about 14 km of underground pipes would be laid
for water distribution. About 3 km of power supply lines would be drawn and
related equipment provided. Mobile sprinkler equipment would be provided
since this constitutes the most appropriate irrigation system in the
undulating terrain on the perimeter.  A system of ditches would be constructed
to provide drainage.
Support Activities
45.      In order to support the realization of the irrigation investments,
the provincial directorates of IMARA (DPAs), the regional agricultural
development office of Souss and the Central Management Unit would be
strengthened and equipped. This would include the construction and equipping
of about 142 staff houses; 11 livestock development centers; 15 livestock
breeding centers, one artificial insemination center, six milk collection
centers; 7 extension work centers; 3 input centers; and provision of 47
vehicles, 116 motorcycles and 30 bulls. Furthermore, a Division of Irrigation
Crop Agronomy within MARA's Directorate of Crop Production (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04(a)) would be. maintained to provide a long-term focus on the
particular problems of small-scale irrigated agriculture. The Government
would also undertake a study on the type of small-scale animal traction and
hand-held machinery and equipment most suitable in the project area. Finally,
the Livestock Directorate of MARA would, as a basis for improving the genetic
breed of livestock in the project areas, prepare an action plan for artificial
insemination in each perimeter. The study and the action plan would be
carried out in time to provide support to on-farm development at the time of
the start-up of irrigation (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03).
46.      About 100 man-months of technical assistance would be provided
including: 8 months of short-term consultancies to assist with procurement of
electromechanical equipment at Souss, Jemaa Sahim and Middle Sebou, 3 months
to conduct the study of small-scale farm equipment and 4 months to assist with
the preparation of a follow-up project. It is also proposed to finance the
services of two civil engineers for two years each to advise on the
supervision of construction, one in Middle Sebou and one in Ghiss.
Electromechanical engineering consultants would be recruited to help supervise
electromecbanical equipment installation for one year each in Souss and Middle
Sebou. Finally, an extension expert would, during one year help organize
extension training programs in all perimeters before start-up of irrigation on
each perimeter (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a) (v) and 3.03).
Project Implementation
47.      Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with
MARA, and its Director of Rural Equipment would be project manager. To ensure
adequate coordination of project implementation and institutional development,



16 -
the Project Manager would preside over a Project Coordination Committee which
would include the Directors of Crop Production, Livestock, Extension and
Planning from MARA, the Directors responsible for Water Resources and for
Highways from the Ministry of Equipment, the Director of Rural Affairs from
the Ministry of Interior and representatives from the Ministry of Finance, ONE
and CNCA (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part 1).
48.      Monitoring, coordination and reporting of project activities as well
as evaluation of project implementation, agricultural production and cost
recovery would be done by a Central Management Unit (CMU) within MARA's
Directorate of Rural Equipment, which would be maintained throughout the
project period. MARA would also be responsible for conducting a baseline
survey and a subsequent evaluation of project benefits (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.06(c) and (d) and Schedule 5, Part 2).
49.      The subprojects would be implemented by the respective provincial
directorates of agriculture (DPAs) except in the case of the Souss subproject,
which would be executed by the semi-autonomous Regional Office for
Agricultural Development for Souss-Massa (ORMVASM), which was also responsible
for executing the Souss Groundwater Project (Ln. 1123-MOR). The DPA in Fes,
which is already implementing the Fes Karia Tissa project (Ln. 1602-MOR),
would be responsible for the Middle Sebou subproject. Between them, these two
experienced agencies would implement about 80 percent of the project.
50.      Some components of the project would be executed with the assistance
of other agencies. The National Electricity Office (ONE) would be responsible
for installing power lines and related electrical equipment at Souss, Middle
Sebou and Jemaa Sahim. The Ministry of Equipment would manage construction of
32 km of asphalt roads in Middle Sebou and CNCA (the national agricultural
credit institution) would provide credit for on-farm investments.
51.      The implementation of irrigation infrastructure and support
investments is not expected to cause major problems, but the execution of the
Middle Sebou and Chichaoua components would require the establishment and
staffing of construction field offices at the project sites. This is
particularly the case in Chichaoua in view of the distance -- 80 km -- between
the DPA in Marrakech and the project site and of the limited experience of the
Chichaoua technical staff. The sub-office would therefore be built and
staffed according to an agreed upon timetable (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04(b)).
52.      Some further institutional arrangements regarding the irrigation
infrastructure merit particular mention. At Chichaoua, upstream farmers are
diverting water in excess of their water rights to the detriment of the
downstream farms. Adoption of an acceptable plan for resolving this problem
would be a condition for disbursement against this subproject (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, para. 4b). In the Ghiss perimeter, it is envisaged to transfer
excess water through an interconnector canal to the neighboring perimeter,
Nekor, during most of the year. However, since Ghiss would not normally have
any excess water in mid-summer, and since the farmers in the perimeter have



- 17 -
the traditional right to this water, priority for water would be given to the
Ghiss farmers in times of water shortage (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08). At
Souss, where all water would be pumped from the aquifer, and where private
pumping during the past decade has substantially lowered the water table, it
is essential to safeguard the aquifer. The Government has therefore issued a
decree providing for monitoring and certain controls over pumping. Under the
project, the Ministry of Interior and ORMVASM would continue to regulate
pumping and keep the Bank informed about the movements of the groundwater
levels (Loan Agreement, Secion 3.07).
53.      A key feature of the project, and of fundamental importance for its
replicability, is the principle that the beneficiaries, in the undelimited
perimeters, as far as possible formally agree to operate and maintain the
irrigation systems. The vehicle for this would be the establishment of water
users' associations, tentatively called "Associations of Agricultural
Development" (ADAs), whose members would sign legally binding statutes, under
which they would assume certain responsibilities for managing and financing
the operation and maintenance works. The ADAs would have an elected
president, a financial officer and a management committee. Members would
undertake to make specific financial contributions and approve all proposed
irrigation works. The existing legal framework for the formation of ADAs is
outdated and a new draft law is under preparation. In the meantime, MARA has
proceeded to organize water users in the project area in de facto associations
which would be legally established as soon as parliamentary approval of the
new law has been obtained which should be achieved no later than December 31,
1985 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.10). So far all the beneficiaries in the
Souss perimeter have been organized in de facto water users' associations.
Similar associations would be established in Ghiss and Chichaoua as a
condition of disbursement for these sub-projects (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
Part 4(b) and (c)). In Jemaa Sahim, the de facto associations would be formed
no later than June 30, 1985 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.09), i.e., in time for
start-up of irrigation on the perimeter.
54.      The statutes of water users' associations will vary as regards degree
of responsibility for management of operations and maintenance. Thus, the
farmers at Ghiss and Chichaoua, where irrigation works are simple and
cooperation has existed for generations, would be expected to assume full
responsibility for operation and maintenance of the entire irrigation
network. At Souss, where the farmers have cooperative experience but are not
familiar with modern pumping stations, ORMVASM would operate and maintain the
pumping stations for at least three years, while about 60 local technicians
are being trained to assume this responsibility. The situation would be
rather different at the currently rainfed Middle Sebou and Jemaa Sahim
perimeters where there is no irrigation tradition. At Middle Sebou, which
will be covered by the Agricultural Investment Code, the DPA would establish
an Irrigation Operations Division not later than December 31, 1985 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.04(c)) to manage the perimeter. At Jemaa Sahim the DPA
would retain responsibility for the pumping station. As in the case of Souss,
the responsibility for these activities would gradually be transferred to
farmers.



- 18 -
55.      Cost recovery.  As previously mentioned, the beneficiaries would
cover all operation and maintenance costs as well as a reasonable portion of
investment costs, either through their own work or by paying charges for
investments and operations financed by ORMVASM or the DPAs. This would be
achieved in two different ways depending on the status (delimited or
undelimited) of the perimeter. Middle Sebou is being delimited as a modern
perimeter and will therefore fall under the Agricultural Investment Code. The
Agricultural Investment Code, which dates back to 1969, provides for a fixed
volumetric water charge, an energy charge and a fixed land betterment levy
aimed at recovering all O&M costs as well as a portion of investment costs.
In its present form the Code suffers from certain weaknesses which frequently
lead to cost recovery levels which are too low to even pay for operations and
maintenance. It is therefore being revised by the Government to ensure more
equitable and uniform application. It ig expected that the revised Code would
be applied in the Middle Sebou perimeter, and that all O&M costs and
10 percent of investment costs would be recovered from all farmers. In
addition, larger farmers would contribute a further 10% of investment costs.
This can, however, also be achieved within the context of the Code in its
present form. The other four perimeters would not be delimited and would
therefore not be subject to the provisions of the Code. Consequently MARA
would sign contracts with all ADAs in Ghiss, Chichaoua, Souss and Jemaa Sahim,
which would include provisions for cost recovery (Loan Agreement, Section
4.05)and be signed, at the latest, six months before the opening of the
respective irrigation systems. The charges would in all cases cover all O&M.
In addition, the Government envisages that 40 percent of investment costs
would be recovered at Chichaoua and Ghiss, 15 percent at Souss and 10 percent
at Jemaa Sahim. The Government may, in some cases, decide to exempt very
small farms from making these contributions to the investment costs but
understandings have been reached that in such cases a minimum of 10% of
investment costs would still be recovered. The different levels of cost
recovery reflect not only the different costs of construction and operations
to be carried out and the division of responsibility for future operations,
but also the farmers' ability to pay.
Project Cost and Financing
56.      Total project costs are detailed in the Loan and Project Summary and
are estimated at DH 572.4 million ($101.3 million) of which $42.1 million or
41.5 percent in foreign exchange. Cost estimates include DH 155.3 million
($27.5 million) of taxes and duties, or 27 percent of total project costs.
Estimates are based on prices obtained during appraisal in June 1982 and
updated to end-1982 prices. Physical contingencies include 15 percent for
civil works and 10 percent for equipment and studies. Price escalation has
been estimated for local costs at 11 percent in 1983, 9 percent in 1984 and
8 percent thereafter and for foreign costs at 8 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent
in 1984, 7 percent in 1985 and 6 percent tbereafter. Contingencies amount to
DH 185.6 million ($32.8 million) or 32 percent of total costs and 48 percent
of base costs. The average cost of consultants has been estimated at 10,000
per month including international travel, subsistence and overbead.
57.      The proposed Bank loan of $42 million, including the capitalized
front-end fee, would finance the estimated foreign exchange costs of the



- 19 -
project except on-farm investments since these are financed by credits from
CNCA, which already benefits from external financing for this purpose,
including loans from the Bank. Remaining project costs would be financed by
the Government ($56.4 million), the beneficiaries ($2.2 million) and CNCA
($l million).
Procurement and Disbursement
58.      Contracts for civil works, including irrigation, roads, power supply
and buildings of $1.5 million or more and contracts for purchase of vehicles
and equipment exceeding $200,000, totaling about $58 and $6.7 million
respectively, would be awarded following international competitive bidding
procedures (ICB), in accordance with Bank guidelines. Qualifying domestic
manufacturers of equipment and vehicles would receive preference in bid
evaluation of 15% or the prevailing import duty, whichever is less. Civil
works contracts below $1.5 million and totaling about $23 million and vehicle
contracts below $200,000 would be awarded following competitive bidding,
advertised locally (LCB) and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank affording foreign bidders an opportunity to participate. In aggregate,
contracts for vehicles awarded under LCB would not exceed $800,000. Contracts
for goods not exceeding $200,000 and aggregating no more than $300,000 would
also be awarded following competitive bidding advertised locally (LCB), and in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. An exception to the above
is necessary since some specialized hydraulic equipment valued at about
$2.0 million will have to be bought from the sole manufacturer under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. This type of equipment is currently in use
in existing perimeters in Morocco, and no similar equipment exists in the
world market. Acquisition of miscellaneous equipment estimated to cost less
than $10,000 and aggregating no more than $200,000 as well as of selected
breeding animals valued at $100,000 would be made in small lots through local
shopping after obtaining at least three quotations. Contracts for about 100
man-months of consulting services would be awarded in accordance with Bank
guidelines for the use of consultants.
59.      Contract review.  All bid packages and contract awards over $500,000
for civil works and $200,000 for goods and all contracts for hydromechanical
and electromechanical equipment would be subject to prior review by the Bank
as well as the bid documents for the first three contracts regardless of size
for whicb bids would be invited by ORMVASM and each of the DPAs. These
reviews should, in aggregate, exceed 85 percent of total contract values.
60.      The proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:
(i)    40 percent of total cost for civil works, excluding power supply;
(ii)    100 percent of foreign expenditure and 60 percent of local
expenditures for non-power equipment, vehicles, breeding animals and
civil works and equipment for power supply; and



- 20 -
(iii)   100 percent of total expenditures for consultants' services and
training abroad.
Retroactive financing not exceeding $1.0 million would be provided for
tubewell/exploratory works and a land-use survey through Landsat imagery in
the Souss subproject.
61.      Accounts, audits and reports.  Existing financial control and audit
of governmental bodies is undertaken by the Ministry of Finance in a
systematic and satisfactory manner. For the specific needs of the project the
following arrangements would be made: (i) the implementing agencies
participating in the project would separately identify the amounts included in
their annual budgetary requests for carrying out planned actions in each
subproject, and the Government would separately identify the approved amounts
in the relevant annual budget law; (ii) each implementating agency would
maintain separate accounts for the works in each subproject; (iii) these
accounts, as established and certified by the Regional Financial Controller
and Treasury Officer, would be audited and physical implementation of the
project verified by the Ministry of Finance; and (iv) an overall audit report
for the Project would be prepared by the Ministry of Finance and would be
submitted to the Bank, along with the year-end certified summary accounts of
all implementing agencies, within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year
(Loan Agreement, Sections 4.02 and 4.03).
Environmental Effect
62.      All the subproject areas are free of serious environmental and health
hazards such as bilharzia and malaria. The project would not adversely affect
the environment and would improve it by (i) protecting population, land and
crops from floods in Ghiss; (ii) intercepting damaging surface run-off water
through appropriate drainage systems in all the subproject areas except in
Souss where such run-off normally is of limited scope and intercepted by
farmers for irrigation; and (iii) providing an improved water supply through
the irrigation system to the villages of the Jemaa Sahim perimeter, thus
reducing the disease risk in this area.
Benefits and Risks
63.      The overall economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is estimated
at 15 percent over a 35-year period, and has been calculated by aggregating
the ERRs for the five individual subprojects, which range from 12.9 percent to
17.3 percent. The highest ERRs, 15.3 percent, 16.7 percent, and 17.3 percent,
have been estimated for the three traditional perimeters, Ghiss, Chichaoua and
Souss, respectively, and are illustrative of the rates of return which may be
expected from rehabilitation projects in different types of traditional small-
and medium-scale irrigation perimeters. Sensitivity tests show that under a
range of assumptions the resulting ERRs would remain satisfactory for each
subproject. Thus, a simultaneous decrease in benefits of 20 percent and
increase in cost of 20 percent or a significant delay in benefits (2 years)
accompanied by a 10 percent increase in irrigation costs would still yield
rates of return exceeding 10 percent for each subproject. Such adverse
changes are, however, considered unlikely.



- 21 -
64.      The expected financial rate of return of individual farms ranges
between 13 percent and 41 percent with the lowest rates of return estimated
for smaller farms in the modern perimeters of Middle Sebou and Jemaa Sahim.
In the traditional perimeters, even the smallest farms are expected to obtain
financial rates of return of 17 percent or more, with the majority of the
farms expected to obtain between 25 percent and 41 percent. In total, some
8,000 farms and about 50,000 people would benefit from the project through an
increase in their income. Higher yields, intensified cropping and expanded
areas should yield an increase in value of 220 percent for crop production and
420 percent for livestock production as compared to a "without project
situation." All this incremental production would be marketed and consumed in
Morocco. This is not expected to cause difficulties since the increased
production will be made available in relatively small amounts in a large
number of dispersed markets.
65.      The main risks of the project are institutional.  Difficulties could
be experienced in the formation of water users' associations in Chichaoua,
Ghiss and Jemaa Sahim. However, the positive experience in Souss during 1982
as well as the long-standing tradition of water user cooperation tend to make
these risks manageable. There is also a risk that the financial difficulties
of the Government could affect budgetary allocation to the project, but this
risk is also believed to be limited in view of the high priority the
Government gives to the SMSI-subsector.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
67.      Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of disbursement include:
(i)    Expenditures for the rehabilitation of the Chichaoua perimeter will
only be authorized if the water users' associations on the perimeter
have been established and a rational and viable plan for the use of
water of the Tajoujet network has been adopted (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, part 4(b)).
(ii)    Expenditures for the rehabilitation of the Ghiss perimeter will only
be authorized if the water users' associations on the perimeter have
been established into associations (Schedule 1, part 4(c)).
68.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 7, 1983



- 23 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                            REFERENCE GROUPS ('WEDGHTED AVE}ACES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             446.6/c                                                        MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      2n2.2 /c                                MOST RECENT            NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST          LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    220.0        340.0      900.0                 1253.6                    1902.0
ENERGY COPHSUNUTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL PQUIVALENT)        163.2        214.0     302.3                  713.5                    1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATIOH, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 11626.0         14993.0   20182.0
URBAN POPUTLATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3           34.6       40.6                  47.3                       65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           35.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            81.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                          26.0         33.6      43.8                   35.8                      35.2
PIR SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        61.1         75.0       96.6                 420.9                       92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            44.8         47.6      46.1                   44.3                      39.7
15-64 YRS.                            52.6         48.3      50.7                   52.4                      56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.6          4.2        3.2                   3.3                       4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.6          2.5        3.0                   2.8                       2.4
URBAN                                 3.7          4.2        4.6                   4.6                        3.8
CRUOE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        51.8         47.3       44.9                  41.2                       31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        23.4         17.2       12.7                   12.2                       8.4
GROSS RNPRODUCTION RATE                 3.5          3.5        3.2                    2.9                       2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..         25.1       78.0/d
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED 'WOMEN)    ..            1.0        5.4/d
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)             99.0         98.0      88.0                  100.4                     110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     100.8        103.0     106.5/e                108.5                     108.4
PROTEINS (GRAHS PER DAY)             64.6         66.5       68.37e                71.9                       66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          13.8         12.6       13.5/e                18.0                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        36.8         26.6       15.5                   15.1                       5.6
HEALTH
OIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.7            51.7       56.5                  56.9                       64.2
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)                 160.5        136.3      107.2                 104.3                      64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                30.6         51.0       55.0/d                59.1                      65.6
URBAN                                58.7         92.0      100.01d                83.1                       78.9
RURAL                                19.0         28.0       25.0/d                39.8                      43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  *-         29.0         ..                    ..                      59.3
URBAN                                  ..         75.0         ..                    ..                      75.3
RURAI                                  ..          4.0         ..                    ..                      30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             9406.1      12814.5   11037.4/d               4015.5                     1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..       2742.2    1826. 3/e               1802.2                    1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               625.6        664.3      773.6/e               641.7                     477.4
URBAN                                  ..        454.7     623.4/e                538.3                     679.8
RURAL                                  *-       5821.4    3089.6/s               2403.3                    1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         15.5       17.9/e                 25.5                      27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 4.8          5.5         ..                     .                         .
URBAN                                 4.3          4.9
RURAL                                 5.1          5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.2          2.4
URBAN                                 2.1          2.1
RURAL                                 2.3          2.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWIELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
JRBAN                                  *          68.4       65.0/e
RURAL                                  ..           ..



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE _A
MOROCCO - SOCTAI. INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MOROCCO                            REFERENCE GROOPS (WEIGHTED AVERjGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT            NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
i96'  ,/    1970 /b ESTIMATF /b            MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDDCATIEON
ADJUSTED ENROI.l'MENT RAREOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  47.0         52.0        75.0                   88.7                     104.3
MADI                   7,7.C        67.0       93.1                  104.5                      106.4
FEMALE                 27.          1 36.0     56.0                   72.0                      103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    5.0          13.0       22.0                   39.7                      41.3
MALEf                   7.0 ,       18.11      27.0                   49.3                       40.4
FEMALE                  2.0          7.0       17.0                   29.0                       41.8
VOCATIONAL LNROL. (%' OF SECOFDARY)  31.2             2.3        2.8                   10.1                       33.7
PuPIL-TIACEER RATIO
PRIMARY                              42.4          34.3      40.3                    34.1                      29.9
SECOQDARY                             6.3         210.4       21.0/f                 23.7                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           13.8         21.4       28.0                   43.3                       79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PFR THIOUSAND
POPULATION                           10.7         14.8       19.6/d                  17.8                      42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPOLATION                           45.8         62.4      107.5                   131.3                     270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.4         11.6       38.4                    44.1                     107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    22.1          16.2       11.8                   31.5                      63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0               ..        2.0/e                  1.7                        2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOU'SANDS)       3388.7        3945.2    5294.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     10.0          14.2       15.8                   10.6                      24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                62.0         57.0        52.0                   42.4                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   14.0         17.0       21.0                    27.8                      23.9
PARTICTPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   29.1         26.3       26.2                   26.0                       33.6
MALE                                    52.1         45.2       44.2                   46.2                       50.4
FEMIALE                                  5.9          7.5        8.3                    5.6                       16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.6          2.0        1.9                    1.9                        1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
RURAL                                   ..           ..     219.0/i
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/g           20.0/g
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.3/g          49.0_/R
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    7.0/g           4.0/_.
LONEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.0/            12.0/g
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIM.ATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               107.0        157.0       389.0                  279,2
RURAL                                66.0         101.0      238.0                  178.6                     184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL ('JS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..            ..     242.0                   403.6                     518.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..      257.0                  285.6                     371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTF
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                51.0          38.0       28.0                    22.1
RURAL                                49.0          45.0       45.0                    30.9
Not availale
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends OnI availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Excludes the ex-Spanish Sahara; /d 1976; /e 1977; If 1975; /g Consumption expenditures of households.
May, 1982



- 25 -                                                                         ANNEX I
____________Of_OCIAL_I___`_O_                                                      Page    3   of   6
Sata:   Aitaen  he   ataored-a   tnt,  -or... gen-rnly >.dd95d teChs.           ohoia i. adriel,i  aul   lob od                           Sa   iy   a   a  ne Inte
ntnlly Z.ytal  i...   f the lena            f  tndrie    deft.ttione  and  -on-pte  .odn byolern    Conein. In                             thborig  c  date.  Th. fts are, .sne-
Stel-os  a        Cfa   to -dacrbc o_de. of teRitade. Lndian. trend., end  h.torat-ri.. cetin              ,r  iterne  b.C....n .o..  ins..
Th' refer-ence groopa  -r  (I) the  -a   t ... ty droop of tin sbject country ace 12) a coutry groap aith sa-ht high., ton-ge in...-  Siad th   cuty jroup
ofhti  aabfectuuntn  (encept for   'high, mose   oil tap--`rs   dro..p oherCe "Piddl. Intoa iambh Atfr-  snd Middl. n                     W t Int  l h..t. becn  of. IC
a      h....t nian.otitnesbeactedn C-rltiatat  aerg-                 at S..t  intnorthnohr    t.,aerdcaehny.e tI    -oailgth bi alor of.
an oit traa  itime      8 asCh ti  .a.ntr  an d refstance   -cps..
Auto itn--adsq1.kn.)                                                                                  Pooa I,  eOartlEd - otl -,  -b- n. d nrlypfso'o.
Totl       ...na   f-ron   annnni  n   an    r.on   nad   ae             1979 dana.               Crba,Iad rortl  divddb   itSrentneostthorolbd
uTb..otor- -.I_        de fa rnoira    baycdt.prtChoroisnntyannatah0polc   n  ptat    enrl  n  oeuabre   aataiOd_o
oro pe  --etoee,  -atcad kt "ch..  Cadneo . lic fall Ion                79P daa                adiaaeetr.    oprlaaenthsmto                                             -ffnenlysad
by us 1-et ..a  nph.inla..       - caolidh-eet  prnhfo  yr -innipl lyos
oop ti 1021k (lO) - ,NP pr neena Ceiasenat nrnensmatte  prlce. Ca-                    dia  careann ot inloded    Sara  totp-alm,manne.-fnd..dt  ndIt
Coand  y  nm   nontha   mnid  e  ct0  an   tis   tu-d    tci);160                           ad   edca   _nnt -nt  erannt                 ffnefd ho o ptinan(batO
ISM. ond   01data.                                                                                    cadlin  a..Lo.it.ot.n_ree. eid_ife.  ec.) chion otTer in-pas et  nn
dotiun and pr-nid, a united r-g. nt  edinal fIo Ilbos `              o  sto"Itt-
nate.                                                                   OdelOoinOa ncr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ina-unl 3nd   _ T.nal ouste  of aelnontor  noo_h_re
POP17-ATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                    ,..~~~Ian napinals dioodad iy the  -aste  ot btd..
Toc-l  qaaaln    id-Pear (tin.....d.)   A. In f l'ily I;  O960. 19)0  . ad 19d1                   HOUSING
Oata.                                                                                             A-ern  Si.ee of H.u..l  (noio.-et hcneibld   - totalH, otn.a aoI-.1
(po.--cison)rntt of tota) - MCtIn of othan tI toal populastban;A, hOutebld o... IVtto                                      gtaarop aI indq!nidti  cic  nae        e   Iort
ditften fetoitan   'f urban tne  my uffet  -nop-baility af data'aid theit nat  o scle.  A ....tder or 1od4tm,  nr -  -y ~n- he Oni-dd Sn
_eon ....ctnes; 1960, 1970, and 1980 ot. C.C. tie                                                          .. nehald fcr tatoi          P.Patonee
rn -lacn  Pr  rtaaucAtsuhsonetnsne  ca-ttn,om                                                                                                                and rural  -.aotte   at
P.,loin  n  et  00     Cero   pcpoILatlr  P-rnjnlon   are .. aatd ae 1950                           her of peene    rro,  eal  oen.ndrua                         naptedOnrIna
total popotattan1 by, age .nd o, ada their ctlty and fertility rie                                olton   ePetinaly.  Dree11iegs  -I.lde  a-eenn.anrannad
Pralosio   paacanre  ar crnalty   mtecnap i%c thire  leve,  sas                    onapied pCT.
cog lieapn...          a   orctneeigct  Coutr' 0yn  tapia  bumaanOeu tenninIt   narnenI  of nonilinno) -..oitl ,  _ban..ad rural -
Itnal  tad  nmai  loftstyeteuoyetehliaoag at 77.1 y-er.  Tie Pant-                    _onnen  to al deniioge wth nl niiy Ia-liningj   WFC-rr  asP -a8
betam  (o  festily  rte aon   oo,  hee  level  a.eamlg declIne  in                   of toa.,b.ha. nsa Octal dasllega  reepactte-ly.
ytrnilinn  o.Codingtm  unmeIc     td   ot   asl  planningprursne
Each ..unt.  Ithenasige   no 'ohe   nine csinani... of mentality                             EDUCATIONO
-nd f-rflity'  -reda for projontie poroce                                                         tAtt...  ..r....n S7 in
icarioarynoalamlo-Intoastonry  pnplosto  ther  Ia no grncholc                        tnat Schoo  - total.  -1a I cd frmalr-rs   total. aait  -na (n-I
Cb, btlrnrc i,eqoatlontiedet  ree. and also  Si. sag   otr...cI..  rt-                              ntnlan   f  l  ue  at the Ptimry I.lsrlseIrotsfnea ie
fatasoua an.    ilt en huievad only at.eC tarity  rate   de-lion  t                            praty         o-age poPulatiane;tnormaly i..lad.. nhi)dre-  ageo b-il
the                1_1cees  os  of -it ne  reptada-tiun  rmt, ot.. t.ol dt,aityashtt)st   a                                     iffern   asInao    rmreual                   a
netate   o  ti  helsnftinh   unid   irne ttno                    PO ClSC                     slo-  -am   pupils are belu   or a1b... th  officil  nan  ae
II sin yea  2000  .:edi the rat, of dtline of (tnitiliny rate  to replant                    3- end-ry anho    -  otol.. aia  -td focal. - C-pnated a oab-n; --ndany
tie  11 -c Eehm.'                                                                             otall   of 12 to 17 years of a S; oorendnencatae~trly
Itonolai-on Denity                                                                                       eSldd
'a   c.i.      ilmr  oulqonpr  iaceninemntillatrt)-                                                 Vctinl onlsot)onaoto  nnnor)      octonlanttait
toa    t.   960, :970 and 19)9 data..icuetnnol                                                                      ttro.o    _to   PCoen    tu             onani.ced
P-er  ka.  . oaiaiorl ad - Canynsed a. ahcn  fC    gonltri.lad                                      ently or      ftdpar-tm t  af a-cdtlar  Inetitatinne.
only; 1960. 1970 add 1979 dena.                                                                Pi-eanrcant  - P' etry. anddnted                    - TnI1tai sadetac          elt  .i
Allloln  u   Itra",a, percent) - ChIldnee kI-14 re-r).  nhti-g   (15-                           primety tod secodary  _tns   dnided by  ,. oter   It  atohets it cit
y_.o), and  rird  (6o ynar  ad anle)  e P..rr.etaga. If bia-y-a  nPu,-                           -arrepoedung lr
latot;190.   070  ad 1980 data                                                              Adals lt-rtny rate I p-rne) - Lie nIc- ouin  (abl  nonednd -its.)
POtntctO  ironb Ptin    ...cet) - tonal - AHMnI Sgrhoatbyte  of  .totl  ad-Patap                          ..tConge  at total adnt popaletina agd lb yren and over.
year yan"letio Tar 1950-ft. 1960-y0, tod 1970-80.
roalnOo  me   mat  (......r) - urhen-da'a"! dro.e  rotno of urban p"pu-                    COOOiSPTTION
latoi   fc. .. I   le." 1960-70, atd 1970-go... aengcv la . (Per tinu-end ycpulacian) - Poen..nger  Iar  -oprice  -aco
Irade birth Pate Intc th--tad)  - dtAI- Itiln  nirthc par th-c.tad If aid-yea                         Crostn leehntight Persons; nncadas aehul-nne. heersesoa.d
puaio;1960  1971. an        0 data.                                                          n ltrynetn.
lrudrDrat Pan  (perthacanaf  -     ISna  death. 7Cr th...aedof eid-yeat                   gal  end       esc  e  iunadpraat                - 011 typ-ee  Cf roiv-r  or- radio
population; 1960. 1970, end 1980 dana.                                                              bradeee  o  enre  pohnpr  hosd of pplcn;cnlla.d a-
Gron  teProd-cion Rate - Aereg    -cih-  of da-ghtcrcaaImI---                neonb..  in              licrn-dra-atcIr  inL        unre   and in ynea   h    reita Ia nf C.dio
ban   orma  repalnvioeperid  ifaba  apatto PCa  rn . g... eoc.    nlnr                -ctan    in affect; data forI        ntPsanynsearbeia
all married  man  cot name age-- dtn..nuet.nofdeIfge-ea Pte CoencapOIde IV                                                                                   C..dcyct indtn
ycbietd.nntcd primerily no retarding denecal oe...          a it  -a1cd.rrO
POOD AIM0 NSfTITDOO                                                                                      oO  'datln   if it upnmar  at l..a. (ca  III._eae.c
Indon of rood Prod-nir pen lo tm  (1969-71-ITcO) - mann~ of por .ePit. annuel                       CILaet me Alttedann p- Capita pen Pear - Sena.d on the otsbet of
Prod-otton  of all ron  Id       itl.. -ec       1 .   ...tcaa   ealade  ..d  and teed and          Oloftat  sod-drg cbs peer, iealading admas-In   to  dron-tnnnet
Is ut oaleena  ysnc yea..  Cn-Cintieenno   nrtntity toed. (a..g. eaganan                            ad mete _ate.
insea    atecga) ehiob  Cn ndibla ad  --etni   amrion           g. cfe   o
-ttindl ancge prodacrpnn  agt.;196-5. 170. e,                          90dt.TtlthrPrc)hnadf-Sansalyato  paneons, including
'e oita opal, of       I.atorio (peoo...  of_-soai-.mtse       Cnane   from.ad f                         frcsan  usploy.d hateaidg  tneic,ntetsaa.
regy oquins.n-  of Oct LCed eupPli. tenenilabl. 10  -nesy per oaPIn                                .. ansing pon1ation of all ags.   Poeftitte Is S` crtn    ncr                r
per day . Aeilable.... auppitee   laan    dacesait peato,imPe.   let                                tat      .. n rbl.o  1960. 1970 end 1900 dtta.
noprona. and nhaegca In es-k.  Se  epp-e anae  nle   fee, ..eO..                                    P                       eaelao   ou   a   enaa               fnnt   lboCor.
quantitlac cid It toad Proca.istg  end laee  in dietrib-tis.  isqcirc                                ttulas(p         nt-        dbrfr,i   amn,fcsr . hating  and
seCts ea.  esetsed by P60 baced as ph59.tlegi-c  e-ds fan sorsei  ,uti-                               tthnga  prasas  fea    bthe  fart..  1960, 1970 and 1980 den..
otty and health uc...idaring elaetcet   epecr.bdy esIgbtc, age                                      Indcoerr(nony            -Labar fern,- In c1ing.oetann.  eaatto
and  -e  d              Iniate    f population. edI eloea    tO t ..r.ce   fetn.te at                 and  ectcmY, eat. and go.te                .....snag n. E total 1.6cc to-te;
h..a:eh.Id l-n; 196-I5 1970 and 19717 des.11,L.                                                       1960, 1970 and 1980 det..
.et Pee,t -troip of trotei  itres   paC.y..Pei    contet of pan capita                           r-rtiptata   Pas         LnC-n    - ttl. -lt, and fecalc - Pctintip.Cis or
net npII f food Pee fay..OtteapIp of toad be d.dinsdaeabno.  Os-at.vity rate. ens  -oate   es1ti   tn   n  ttl   ao   on
oIoreafor nI l ooabtttae  esabteb hd by IODA Prnntd. f.,or meitmamparasn-egn  of tInsl   mI   featla  papaI.ite     of all ageso.                                             soiny
etoast   of0 61 dam   of totel prtd.   e  day . cd 70 gre-  of aeteI adodM960  1970, an  1900 dat..  Th.-.- r  hate.d oct ILO   perniolpnt.  rat
Pole   prtin.  o f ohich 7.0 tnt. anIad he  qisil peesats.  The...at...d-                       neflobsingng-eaanotnetrn  of the ropointlr, and  eg, Stl. tecd.AI
aede are bear thas shbcs  of 75 gram  of itel. protein and 23 V.- of                                fee etsn Car  from  national.. suce..
anfca       - yrrenaa   erg    rot the arld. propn...d by PAO in the Third                       tnnsu "e,ndnY Retin  -   nic of "Poyattl    ocder 10 and 60 tdd  -oe
.orl  rodtre.         1916.17.d            177daa.to to.  a                                                          bl la   torn..
Per aptt noteo erpl frn eist an  paes    PrteinL  eapply at foed de-
C1bld ae  1-cf Dc-t Pat Inochasni  -n,em                     eah  per,, t.....od to                 P,neteoyrotctoce nh in  -..b and tAtdf - Ranciond by richest
egs gCoap 1-6  y.a.. ito   hloni   heaegap  for met                    .niPin  uae                  5pren.rih             20  ecen.C  pnnn     Openant. end poornot4 CO p...ot
inr.ciTO   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                dP...... g IcIf OUPO
atI birth   d-.960. 1970a~ 1' anttigO  deaf an  ..all heK                                                              trpne1otdontnaenatin
OPf aE  per. th- oata lIne]  bir-ts   1960. 1970 ned       y.-  I  lf610idate.                       ocicuepnrytootlnli   ht  naeln                              en  which o -tim
If tnttee   oftteres  lcppdaan.ao-oraynfntrne                                                                  nueo   i  oeuary             rba  lane  t- dPIoa Iro   en:h. rural
III -nhlanaaadtprntnibeenfocseeso   nhoeod b.nd eurti-1.                                           kC.         - p-nn tnn Uo  p       Lp_tIon  )oeb thadracal)aho        .T .eeab lta
bu.esoOcet   tnSa  7eit     ts o  poalntan) btoal. rha C.and rar... E-o                                 .  !  2        -A        t    .IYI-               .I~ -)-I
.....e blf pepat.... stld  onto, Cand ronchi-  nae  hy          C  IfoeS   dipoa  at..hl           ~            PC-t -    I-C.     -.    .4..)h     .'
oh   oiate   at P  dc,slaier ennca     Cect. ..  .    staa  serene~
PoProfCatfaerPhso           -  PoPW.Latl    ditrddd by  -ume" of praoth.lng pipam-                                                         IcnmradSaniL.  Data OiLatic
ule.s toalified tra . a  einal scheol at aaa..ty levl.                                                                              ta_oel  Adolycie and Prsjectiae   Depert-ut
PnOulertnn1. tee. Oar da Persa-Pplton            dinilcd by soI IrfptritgNay 1980
_ml, an    tl    rdaenoe,iesetnre.peticel noree. a.d



- 26 -
Population      :  20.8 million (mid-1981)                                                                                             ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 870 (1981)                                                                                                        Page 4 of 6
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                         Annual Growth Rates (%)-
current prices)                           Actual                                          Projected
Indicator                        1980                   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981e/                  1982    1983    1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product a/   17820                      6.0    2.2    4.8    3.6   -1.3                     4.0      5.1      4.5      4.3
Agriculture                  3229                -12.3   18.0   -1.7    6.2  -23.0                     7.0      9.6      3.l      2.5
Industry                     5752                  8.0   -0.9    7.7   -2.5   -0.5                     3.7      4.6      5.4      5.1
Services                     7762                  8.5    4.0    5.1    6.4    3.4                     3.7      4.3      4.3      4.3
Consumption                    15770                   5.3    4.2    5.8    2.5    2.2                     1.3      4.2      3.5      3.6
Gross investment                4025                  15.6  -25.9    1.3   -7.3   -3.6                     6.5    -1.1       3.7      3.2
Exports of GNFS                 3273                  10.3    3.3    0.9    3.7    3.5                    4.5       7.0      6.3      5.3
Imports of GNFS                 5247                  14.5  -17.4    3.3   -9.8   10.7                   -1.9    -0.6       2.2      2.3
Gross national savings          2606                   1.5  -15.4    3.2    6.0  -20.6                     9.5    15.6    13.2        1.7
PRICES
GDP deflator (19b9 = 100)           .                172.0  186.5  200.2  218.4  241.2
Exchange rate (US$ per DH)          .                 .222   .240   .256   .254   .193
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                               Average Annual Increase (M)
(at current prices)d/                         (at constant 1969 prices)    (at constant 1980 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985  1990                  1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product                                                                4.0        4.6         5.1        3.7        5.1
Agriculture _/          29.1   19.2   17.9   18.1   17.1  15.1                     3.5       -2.1         3.8        2.5        2.5
Industry b/             23.5   27.2   35.2   32.3   34.9  35.8                     4.7        7.1        4.2         3.9        5.5
Services b/             47.4   53.6   46.9   49.6   47.9  49.1                     4.1        5.5        5.9         4.0        5.5
Consumption                 89.2   85.5   85.5   88.5   87.7  84.0                    4.1        4.8         5.8        3.0        4.2
Gross investment            10.3   18.5   25.4   22.6   20.0  20.0                    8.0         9.3       -2.8        2.0        5.1
Exports GNFS                27.4   17.6   22.5   18.4   20.5  22.7                     1.3        2.1        4.9        5.5        7.1
Imports GNFS                26.9   21.6   33.4   29.4   28.7  26.7                    3.5        8.1         0.5        1.7        4.0
Gross national savings   11.0   14.8   19.3   14.6   14.5  17.9                       3.5        15.3       -4.4        3.0       10.0
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980        1981
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                    16.5       16.1       23.3       21.6        23.3
Current expenditures                                15.6       14.5       20.2       21.8        24.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                           0.9        1.6        3.1       -0.2       -1.4
Capital expenditure                                  3.8        5.7       12.2       12.4        12.6
Foreign financing                                     ..        1.3        3.7        5.6         9.3
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                       4.0         6.0        5.2        3.4         5.1
GNP per capita growth rate (%)             1.6        3.1        1.8       -0.1         2.0
Energy consumption growth rate (%)    3.8             6.7        5.6        4.3         5.0
ICOR                                      3.09        3.0        4.1        6.2        3.9
Marginal savings rate                     0.10        0.38      -0.15       0.27       0.28
Import elasticitye/                       0.95        1.84       0.13       0.95       0.78
a/  At market prices.
h/  Share of GDP at factor cost beginning in 1985 and sectoral growth rates at factor cost beginning in 1980-85.
c/  Goons only.
d/  Projected years at constant 1980 prices.
e/  Estimates.
f! 1977-1980 at 1969 prices, 1981-85 at 1980 prices.
January 27, 1983
MENEA CF IP-B
IO 0180B P.1



- 27 -
Population     :  20.6 million (mid-1981)                                                                ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 870 (1981)                                                                          Page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
Indicator           (million US$ at                              Annual Growth Rates (%)1/
current prices)                 Actual                                    Projected
1980         1975   1977   1978   1979   1980        1981      1982   1983   1984   1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)        2414      -21.9   10.7    5.3    1.8    5.1          1.0       4.0    7.8    6.7    5.1
Primary products             1823       -25.2    7.7    5.4    0.0    5.8         -8.1       1.2    3.4    3.8    3.5
Phosphate rock             765       -29.9    9.6    9.6    3.2    7.4        -5.4       0.0    3.0    5.0    4.0
Others                     939       -22.3    6.5    2.8   -1.7   14.7    -10.0          2.1    3.7    2.9    3.1
intermediate & manufactures 591          -1.4   23.8    5.0    7.1    2.8         27.4      9.8   16.3   11.8    7.6
Merchandise imports (CIF)       4283        21.2   14.4  -19.9    6.6   -7.1          9.3      -1.9    0.5    3.9    4.0
Food                          720        37.8    0.4    8.6    2.2    3.4         32.5    -16.8   -0.9    2.1    4.5
Petroleum                    1006        12.8    8.7   11.0   12.1  -11.9         10.8      0.0   -1.1    3.3    3.2
Machiinery and equipment      805        51.7   26.7  -44.3   -3.2  -19.8          7.5       3.0   -2.5    4.0    2.9
Others                       1752         4.0   13.0  -15.1   12.5   -5.2        -0.3       2.6    3.7    5.0    4.8
PRICES (1980 = 100)
Export price index                 .         89.9   68.4   69.7   83.5  100.0    123.3    125.1  137.1  153.5  171.8
Import price index                 .        64.1   67.9   73.0   79.2  100.0    122.3    130.9  140.2  154.3  169.8
lerms of trade inex                .       140.3  100.7   95.5  105.4  100.0    100.8         95.6   97.8   99.5  101.2
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                       Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                      (Constant 1969 prices)   (Constant 1980 prices)
1960    1970   1975   1980   1985   1990         1960-70  1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Exports                                                                           2.0     -1.2        6.6        5.2        7.6
Primary products          89.5    89.4   86.9   74.4   60.5   49.1            ..      -2.7        5.3        1.3        3.3
Intermediates & manu-   10.5    10.6   12.9   25.6   39.5   50.9              ..       8.1       12.1       14.0       13.0
factures
Imports                                                                          4.0       9.1        0.7        2.4        4.0
Food                      27.3    16.9   25.0   16.9   16.9   15.5            ..      14.0        3.0        0.7        2.4
Petroleum                  7.4      5.5   10.8   23.6   23.6   22.4           ..       9.6        5.3        2.4        2.8
Machinery and equipment  6.7    24.1   24.0   18.9   18.7   19.2              ..      12.8       -7.0        2.4        4.5
Others                    58.6    53.5   40.2   40.6   40.7   42.9            ..       5.5        2.9        3.3        5.1
Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with              Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)         Developing Countries (%)        Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1960       1970      1980        1960       1970       1980      1960           1970             1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                         72.3      73.7       76.5        27.7       25.4       21.6        ..            0.9              1.9
Imports                        76.7       74.9       72.9        23.3       25.1        8.3        ..             ..            18.8
1/ 1975-1960 at 1969 prices, 1981-1985 at 1980 prices                                                 September 22, 1982
EMENA CP II-B
ID 0180B p.2



- 28 -
Population         20.8 million (mid-i98l)                                                                                                 ANNEX I
aNP Per Capita:  US3 870 (1981)                                                                                                             Page 6 of 6
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million us$ at current prices)
ln-acator                                                        Actual                                                   Projected
1976      1977      1978       1979       1980      1981          1982     1983      1984    1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Sxports of goods and services                 2288       2486      2955       3694      4364       4132          4087    4669       5401     6193    11297
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.              1245      1283       1488      1938       2414      2283          2180    2575       3077    3618       7163
Imports of goocs and services                 3691       4364      4353       5268      5912       6095          5780     6276     6930      7734    12812
Of woico:  Merchandise f.o.b.al/            305      2820       2628       3245      3770       3840         4054    4365       4994      5714     9856
Net current tranfers                             47        52         S0        44        128       102             -         -        -        -         -
Current account balance                      -1355    -1826       -1348      -1530     -1420      -1861         -1692    -1607   -1529    -1541    -1515
Special grants                                 435        360        260       420        314       313            84       197      320      150      232
Current accourt balance after grants    -920            -1466     -1088      -1110     -1106      -1546         -1609   -1410   -1209    -1391    -1283
Private capital                                  3a        53         45        37         88        68            76        85       96      106       171
MIL  loans (.et)                                838      1338       1109       946        971      1205          1071      1425     1371     1666     1359
Official                                      ..        ..        ..         ,.         ..      1315           994      736      878       982     1092
Private                                      *.         ..        *.         , .        ..     -110             77      689      493       684      267
Other capital                                    28        68        -73         73      -200         17            ..       ..       ..        .
Monetary eovementsb/                             16          6         8        53        247       258           462      -100     -258     -381     -263
lnternational reserves                         548        609       772        917       814        508           470      543       653      787     1635
Of which:  Gold                              82        104       154        360       415        278           278      278      278       278      278
Reserves as montte s imports                    1.8       1.7       2.1        2.1        1.7       1.0           1.0       1.0      1.1      1.2      1.5
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT c/
Gross dusbursements                             725      1787       1182      1405       1567      1807
Concessionai loans                           IEI       636       325        293       750       1089
DAC                                       63       109         91        76         96       138
OPEC                                      41       507        189       168        584       837
iDA                                        4         3          -         -          1         2
Other                                      3        16         45        49         69       112
Non-conceasional loans                      614      1151        859       1113       818        718
Official export credits                   22        27          2         2         12       128
IBRD                                      59        68         72       137         64       124
Other multilateral                         2         6         53          7        13        86
Private                                 531       1050        732       967        729       375
Suppliers credits                     10       171         10          8        16          6
Financial credits and bonds          521       879        722        957       713        368
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed             2330      4069       5123      6182       7097      8381
Official                                1250      1975      2456       2833      3482       4865
Private                                1080       2094      2667       3349      3615       3515
Undisbursed debt                            801      1024       2280      2337       2058      2901
Debt service
Total service payments                      162        264       547        798      1191       1340
Interest                                  66       148       252        410       618        738
Payments as Z exports of CGS -/             7.2      10.7       18.7      21.8       27.0       31.3
Average interest rate on new loans (2)             7.7       6.8        7.0        8.2       8.1        8.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)             11.7       13.1      13.2       15.9      13.7        8.0
As % of Debt Outstanding at End of Most Recent Year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                 47.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                                88.0
lnterest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                 7.3
a/ c.i.f. for projected years.
b/ Projected values include IMF credits.
c/ Years 1976-80 from IBRD External Debt Reporting System, 1981 from the BOP statistics.  There are sizeable discrepancies in some years
between tne external capital and debt service flows reported under the IBRD Debt Syste. and those recorded in the official balance of
payments statistics shown in the upper part of this table.
di Excluding debt service on IMF loans.
January 27, 1983
EMENA CP II-B
ID 0180B p.3



- 29 -
ANNEX 11
Page I of 10
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1982) a/
Loan or                                                                            US$ Million
uredit                                                                  Amount   (less cancellations)
Numoer         Year       Borrower                 Purpose              Bank       IDA      Undisbursed
Iwenty-four   Loans       Fully disbursed                               617.4
Four           Creoits   Fully disbursed                                            36.0
1018           1974       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              32.0                    8.4
555            1975       KingOom of Morocco    Agriculture                         14.0        11.1
1202           197t       Kingdom of Morocco    Tourism                  21.0                   11.6
1)20-T         1976       Kingdom of Morocco    Education                25.0                   14.6
141t           1977       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              41.0                   30.5
1-26           1977       BNDE                     DFC                   35.6                    2.5
S-7           1977       Kingdom ot Morocco    Engineering               1.5                    0.5
1528           1978       Kingoom of Morocco    Urban Development   18.0                        15.2
i1O2           1978       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              65.0                   59.1
1625           1978       Maroc-Phosphore          Industry              50.0                    5.9
1681           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Education               113.0                  108.9
1687           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)                25.0                   12.8
1695           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Power                    42.0                   41.9
1704           1979       CNCA                    Agriculture            70.0                   30.8
1724           1979       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply             49.0                   30.4
1757           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              58.0                   49.6
S-18           1980       BRPM                     Oil Exploration       50.0                   20.7
1O30           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Highway                  62.0                   53.8
1848           1980       Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture              34.0                   32.2
1943           1981       CIH                     Tourism               100.0                   70.9
1944           1981       Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development   36.0                        36.0
200b           1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply             87.0                   87.0
20371/         1982       BNDE                     DFC                   70.0                   70.0
20381/         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)                70.0                   70.0
2U821/         i982       Kingoom of Morocco    Agriculture              29.0                   29.0
21091/         1982       Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                    9.5                    9.5
21i01/         1982       Kingdom of Morcco        Forestry              2?.5                   27.5
21141/         1982       ONAREP                   Oil Shale             20.0                   20.0
21491/         i982       Kingdom of Morocco    Education V              50.0                   50.0
Total                                                            1908.5       50.0       1010.4
of which has been repaid                                        239.4        1.2
Total now outstanding                                            1669.1       48.8
Amount Sold                                  20.1
of which has been repaid                   17.7                   2.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                   1666.7       48.8
Total undisbursed                                                 999.3        11.1      1010.4
NOTE
a/ Does not include the Oulmes Rommani Agriculture Development Project, loan of 530 million,
approved December 14, 1982.
i/ Not effective as of 9/30/82. However, since then the following loans have been declared
effective; BNDE IX, Forestry, Small-Scale Mining, Middle Atlas Agricultural Development,
Small Scale Industry II, and Oil Shale Engineering.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1982)
US$ Million
Loan     Equity   Total
19b2/1978           BNDE                          Development Bank            -        2.7       2.7
1966                CIL                           Canning Factory            0.9       0.5       1.4
197t                Marrakech Cement              Cement Factory              -        1.3       1.3
1977/1980            Temara Cement                Cement Factory             4.7       3.6       8.3
1979                Agadir Cement .'              Cement Factory            12.5       2.2      14.7
1980                 SOMIFER                      Copper Mining             13.0       2.3      15.3
1981/1983           Casablanca Cement             Cement Factory            15.8      -2.1      17.9
Total Cross Commitments                                                 46.9      14.7      61.6
Less cancellation, terminations, repayments and sales            15.4       3.5      18.9
Total commitments now held by IFC                                       31.5      11.2      42.7
Total Undisbursed                                                       15.8       2.4      18.2
* Agadir Cement has been cancelled.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982 1/
Ln. No. 1018         Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The project as originally appraised was completed in November 1980.
Funds have been fully committed for the additional infrastructure works and
equipment provided for under an amendment to the Loan Agreement approved in
July 1980. Final disbursements are expected by end-March, 1983 and unused
funds will be cancelled.
Cr. No. 555         Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
After a 2-year initial delay, project implementation has picked up
momentum.  Major activities concerned with the land consolidation and
redistribution program have been completed in one district and civil works
(roads, destoning and irrigation rehabilitation) have been started in the
remaining three districts. Progress is slower than expected, mainly because
project implementation has proven more complex than anticipated, which has
been aggravated by project management problems. However, the first results of
the completed components are promising. Because of the initial delay and the
complexity in implementation, the original closing date was extended by three
years.
Ln. No. 1202         Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of
February 27, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project consists of infrastructure works and common facilities
for a hotel/residential tourism development complex. Most infrastructure
works were completed in December 1980, except for the construction of common
facilities (representing some 20% of the total project costs). This delay is
mainly due to institutional and project management problems. Project
I/       These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
completion is expected to be delaved by at least 18 months, and an extension
of the closing date has been under consideration for a long time since it has
been made contingent on the Government's agreement to an action program. The
Government has now been advised that the Bank will cancel the balance of the
loan on December 31, 1982 unless an action program has been agreed upon bv
that date.
Ln. No. 1220-T       Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18,
1976;   Date of Effectiveness:  October 1, 1976; Closing
Date:  September 1, 1983.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet manpower needs in
education, agricultural extension, health and tourism. After an initial
two-year delay, construction under the education and agriculture components is
largely completed and funds are committed for the equipment and technical
assistance components, but lengthy delays have been experienced in the
implementation of the health and tourism components.
Ln. No. 1416         Doukkala II Irrigation Project. US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter bv 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are
proceeding according to schedule. Implementation was slowed down due to
budgetary constraints facing Morocco in 1980-81 which caused a delay of about
two years. Project implementation has resumed vigorously under excellent
project management.
Ln. No. 1428         Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The project is designed to meet part of the Banque Nationale de
Developpement Economique's (BNDE) requirements for financing of the import
component of industrial sub-projects, and of a small-scale industry pilot
credit program ($5 million). The loan is fully committed, and the loan is
expected to fully be disbursed before end 1982. BNDE's financial performance
deteriorated sharply in 1981, but the trend should be reversed since a package
of measures to rehabilitate BNDE financially and to strengthen the institution
has recently been agreed upon.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Ln. No. S-7          Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of
August 30, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 18, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan for
the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a first phase project. It would
assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for urban sewer
systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases for the
development of this sector. Project implementation was delayed by about 15
months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, but studies were
launched in May 1980, and are now proceeding satisfactorily and an extension
of the closing date is under consideration. The technical components of a
possible project have been identified, but institutional problems have not yet
been resolved.
Ln. No. 1528         Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of
March 31, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes upgrading of slum infrastructure and social
services in three squatter areas with a total population of about 60,000; an
experimental sites and services housing scheme; an employment generation
program; and related technical assistance. After initial delays, project
implementation has recently improved significantly. Infrastructure works are
under way and housing improvement loans are being made. Relocation to sites
and services areas is under progress and some enterprises have started
operation in the industrial zone. Disbursements, however, remain low and the
matter is under review with the Government.
Ln. No. 1602         Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 18,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families in the Fes-Karia-Tissa region, and (ii) contributing to
the growth of agricultural production and to a reduction in Moroccan
dependence on imported food commodities. These aims would be achieved through
a reorganization and strengthening of agricultural extension and soil
conservation services, training, the provision of credit and infrastructure.
Although somewhat delayed, implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, due to
excellent project management and good interagency coordination. However,
disbursements have lagged due to delays by the implementing agencies in
submitting reimbursement requests to the Ministry of Finance.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Ln. No. 1625         Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$5O.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of expansion of existing production facilities
at Safi through (a) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore
plant, of an additional unit and ancillary facilities to produce for export
165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid, and (b) the construction of sulphur melting
and storing facilities as well as of new phosphoric acid concentration and
storage facilities. Commercial operations have begun and the project will
probably be completed on schedule.  Maroc Phosphore's technical management
appears satisfactory. The project account is being closed and an amount of
about $5 million is expected to be cancelled.
Ln. No. 1681         Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
The project consists of the construction, furnishing and equipping of
11 technical high schools, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technologv, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College and associated technical assistance.
Implementation was initially delayed; however, all major contracts have now
been signed and disbursements are expected to accelerate.
Ln. No. 1687         Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project;
US$25.0 million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project consists of support for a Government program to assist
small and labor intensive industries through technical, managerial and
financial assistance. The loan is fully committed, and earlier disbursement
delays are being remedied subsequent to the recent introduction of simplified
administrative procedures.
Ln. No. 1695         Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This project, which is the first stage of a 15-year village
electrification program, would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings
in more than 200 villages throughout the country. Problems of
interministerial coordination and budgetary allocations delayed project
start-up for about one year. Orders have now been placed for most of the
equipment but no payments have yet been made. However, implementation is well
under way and the project is expected to be completed according to schedule.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Ln. No. 1704         Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of
May 23, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's farm
families. The project covers most of the Caisse Nationale de Cr6dit
Agricole's (CNCA) medium- and long-term lending program and farm investment
program through mid-1983. Cofinancing of $75 million is provided by IFAD and
KfW.  CNCA's on-lending as well as repayments were severely affected by the
1980-1981 drought, slowing disbursement of the Bank loan. To alleviate CNCA's
short-term liquidity problems (due mainly to the drought), its lenders,
including the Bank, have increased their disbursement percentages under their
respective loans.
Ln. No. 1724         Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1980; Closing
Date:   June 30, 1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies for
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir; (iii) the establishment of a
revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families; and
(iv) studies on accounting and management systems. Administrative problems
created some initial delays, but there is strong demand for the credit
facilities for low-income house connections. The project is now proceeding
satisfactorily and disbursements are expected to increase accordingly.
Ln. No. 1757         Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million
of November 15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 17,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is the first phase of a long-term program for development
of off-season vegetables for export. $50.0 million of the loan is to be
on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental short-term
production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two small producer
packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting about 8,000 farm
families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of the loan would help
finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical assistance.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Overall production did not
progress as scheduled due to two cold winters, but greenhouses, which have
resisted frost fairly well, are gaining acceptance with the farmers and the
prospects of rising production are promising.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of TO
Ln. No. S-18        Petroleum Exploration Project; US$so million of May 19,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: October 24, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
The project aims essentially at accelerating the Government's
petroleum exploration and development program. It has recently been
transferred from BRPM, the original Borrower, to the new petroleum development
agency, the Office National de Recherches et d'Exploitations Petrolieres
(ONAREP). The project also provides technical assistance in prospect
evaluation, analysis of results of exploration, and exploration management.
Drilling so far has shown encouraging results, particularly as regards natural
gas prospects. Procurement problems have hampered project implementation and
recruitment of consultants has proceeded very slowly. Administrative problems
have also delayed disbursements.
Ln. No. 1830        Third Highway Project; US$62.0 million of May 19, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: September 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project comprises (i) a three-and-a-half year time slice of the
Government's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii)
strengthening and management of the road maintenance program and (iii)
technical assistance for the Ministry of Transport to improve transport
planning and to study road maintenance. The pavement strengthening and
maintenance activities are progressing satisfactorily. The hiring of
consultants for technical assistance is behind schedule due to the slow
preparation of the terms of reference. Disbursements have lagged due to
delays in payment of contractors as well as transmittal of reimbursement
requests to the Ministry of Finance.
Ln. No. 1848        Loukkos Rural Development Project; US$34.0 million of
December 22, 1980; Date of Effectiveness; September 30,
1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
The project should increase incomes and productivity of very poor
subsistence farmers in the Loukkos Basin by reversing the declining trends
caused by soil erosion and inappropriate farming practices. It consists of:
(i) development and erosion control works on 15,000 steeply sloping hectares
in Upper Loukkos; (ii) development of field crops and small irrigation
improvements in Middle Loukkos; (iii) establishment and maintenance of pine
plantations in the Izarene Forest; (iv) construction of roads and social
service facilities in the Project area; and (v) execution of a cadastral
survey on about 500,000 hectares of land. Once proven, the project
implementation methodology could be widely replicated throughout Morocco's
mountain and steppe land. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Ln. No. 1943         Fourth Hotel Development Project; US$100.0 million of
February 5, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: April 9, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project provides funds over a three year period to the Credit
Immobilier et H8telier (CIH), a Moroccan development bank specializing in the
tourism and housing sectors, for the development of tourism hotels. It also
includes studies for developing policies in the tourism sector and training of
CIH staff in appraisal methodologies for tourism projects. Commitments and
disbursements have been extremely rapid.
Ln. No. 1944         Second Urban Development Project; US$36.0 million of
April 16, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1981;
Closing Date; July 31, 1986.
The project consists of the provision of shelter, basic services and
employment to low-income urban families through a program for slum upgrading,
sites and services and provision of serviced land for small-scale industries,
to be implemented in the cities of Meknes and Kenitra. Assistance is also
provided to strengthen the municipal services of the project cities.
Implementation is on schedule, due to the efficient coordination through the
provincial Governors' offices, but some delays in approval of contracts by the
Ministry of Finance have occurred.
Ln. No. 2006         Third Water Supply Project; US$87.0 million of
September 28, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: March 15, 1982;_
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project includes the construction of two regional water
supply systems and the expansion and upgrading of the water supply facilities
in about 32 small towns scattered throughout Morocco. It would also provide
revolving funds to facilitate house connections for low income households,
equipment, technical assistance, training and studies.
Ln. No. 2037         Ninth BNDE Project; US$70.0 million of November 3, 1981.
Date of effectiveness: November 2, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project would include a pilot component in the line of credit to
BNDE, to finance export-oriented industrial sub-projects. The project also
focusses on strengthening organizational aspects of BNDE in the field of
project appraisal, portfolio monitoring and export promotion.



- 37 -
A,NNEX Il
Page 9 of 10
Ln. No. 2038        Small Scale Industry II Project; USt70.0 million ot
November 3, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: February 24, _ 8^
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project comprises (i) a line of credit to the Government to be
relent to BNDE and commercial banks for relending to small scale industries
(SSIs); (ii) financing of the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
provided by the Government to SSIs; and (iii) financing of studies relating to
the structure of incentives for SSIs.
Ln. No. 2082        Middle Atlas - Central Area - Agriculture Development
Project: US$29.0 million of March 5, 1982. Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1982. Closing Date: June 30,
1988.
The project consists of interrelated forestry, range and cropping
land development to bring about production increases of meat, milk, fodder,
cereals and wood, on about 600 ha. in central Morocco, as well as to raise
income and employment among the target population.
Loan No. 2109       Small-Scale Mining Project: US$9.5 million of April 14,
1982.  Date of Effectiveness:  November 19, 1982.   Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This pilot project would increase the productivity of small-scale
lead and zinc mining operations through provision of equipment and facilities,
as well as credit to miners, in a remote region of Morocco thus increasing
exports and raising rural incomes. The project would also strengthen the
financial, technical and administrative base of CADETAF, the implementing
agency, and finance studies as a basis for future expansion of mining
activities. Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2110       Forestry Project: US$27.5 million of April 14, 1982.  Date
of Effectiveness: October 28, 1982. Closing date: June 30,
1988.
The project consists of destumping about 30,000 ha of eucalyptus
plantations and degraded oak and cork forests and replanting with eucalyptus,
pine and acacia; upgrading and construction of forest and access roads;
pasture improvement over 2,000 ha; and technical and institutional support.
Project implementation has commenced satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2114       Oil Shale Engineering Project: US$20.0 million of April 14,
1982. Date of Effectiveness: February 25, 1983. Closing
date: September 30, 1986.
The engineering project would finance studies and the construction of
a shale retorting test station to generate information and analysis on the
characteristics of Moroccan oil shale resources and on the technical and
economic viability of alternative options for their development.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Loan No. 2149        Fifth Education Project: US$50.0 million of November 5,
1982. Not yet effective. Closing date: March 31, 1988.
The project is designed to improve the effectiveness of primary
education and support expanded science and mathematics teaching at the senior
secondary level, through construction of four senior secondary teachers
training colleges, 40 rural primary schools and the provision of teaching aids
to about 700 primary schools.



- 39 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
a) Project identification                         November 1980
b) Time taken by borrower to prepare project   19 months
c) Agencies responsible for preparation           Government with help
from FAO/CP
d) First Bank mission to review project           May 1981
e) Departure of Appraisal Mission                 May 1982
f) Date of completion of negotiations             January 21, 1983
g) Planned effective date                         June 30, 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Disbursements
l. Disbursements would only be made against expenditures for:
(i) rehabilitation of the Chichaoua perimeter when the farmers
have been organized into water users' associations and an
agreement has been reached on water allocation between upstream
and downstream farmers; (ii) rehabilitation of the Ghiss
perimeter when farmers have been organized into water users'
association (para. 53).



- 40 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
Other conditions
2.  MARA would: maintain a Division of Irrigation Crop Agronomy;
undertake a study of small scale animal traction and handheld
machinery and equipment; and prepare an action plan for
artificial insemination for each perimeter (para. 45). An
extension expert would, furthermore help organize extension
training programs in all perimeters (para. 46). MARA would also
maintain a Central Manageme:-t IT-it during the project
(para. 48). DPA, Marrakech woUId establish and staff a
field/office at Chichaoua (para. 51); and DPA, Fes would
establish an Irrigation Operations Division (para. 54).
3. Priority would be given to the water needs of the Ghiss perimeter
and private pumping would be regulated at Souss (para. 52).
4. Water users' associations would be formed at Jemaa Sahim by June
30, 1985, and de facto water users' associations in all
perimeters would be legally established after approval of new
legislation and no later than December 31, 1985 (para. 53).
5. Contracts with water users' associations at Souss, Ghiss, Jemaa
Sahim and Chichaoua would include cost-recovery provisions (para.
55).



BRI)16646
MOROCCO
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                                                Ja Tnges a*  6i*lti i rnrw qn                                So
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DELA PErlTE FT MOYENNE HYDRAU/ICLUE A CR/COZE                                                                                 '            Tetova
LOCATION  OF SUBPROJECTS                                                                                                                                                              / todes
LOCAZ ISA TION DES 5OUSP PROJETS                                                                                                      '    4                                                 Nhoche  ,-
5rbp;Zoo/soretn [es5na-pr/es                                                                                                                          4'  /         <-a-                                  N    
Pn er o os,oI t  s,sors                                                                                            /                                      ",  e MT, e n t : $,§
COeds ,ser/stnrtsot                                                                                         -/                                      0.2g                       . z   .IIDL  CEUzv t // 
41 ~~~~~~~~345                                            Bodsses sre-nssosdons lesseolodresdtsossres (rOs/sos]                                                      pi \ Keroitro            g  e>>ro   Tozo   n-      ®
4        Foothi, zrdesow- p-ter s-i c1to from spingas ersree                                               RABATO                                -?. T3za
---    Zones dceesomEeonssetsoadea pnrton-.f:osn,,r--s oh-ens-ss N zJ2h-                                                 q n /  5KIsee/ 'f ss
(   )esF.thill ssnes o,h iresmisten-i ot-t -ter f-wmsr'g  -rsrfo-e                          >.,                     I          e    l      M  k S                              sa  ff                        )
i- b -MMohommed_ Znoes de  lesoseeeaoeoornsd'econareso (Foyds]                                                                                      501fl0n0ed0l  <           I                 I        .                                                             - ; 'i
a A we> Aguif-                                                               Cos                         monoh l                                                                             t
--  l   N--!- lvN p i-os   o bo o 000s                                                                -                                                                -hou'bg 
s :_>v~HSoot floo  sir                                          '"                                                  a-
SAHI ff                                                            r                                                                                           fSy+k.\    tO
0/5 ~           ~           Gulni eao pin do lOG o/se       <'<} r? Kheos.bgo' /
b-d.,- E,  R=i IdI                                                                                                                                                                   r'-
Prss,re,s cops"5             Nssaou
i.,                1t0 lan                       '  1                                                                    :                                                        4-         -                       a
"-a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q1
Prso.oesolboardesses                                                                    -~~~~~~~~~
Mosses ss e'sesos                                                       deGoudsr,q e
(jI7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  - ~ ~         ~         ~         ~ ~ ~ ~          
Fronts/yes do's of                                    a-Oa-®~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fl         ErRaclsidsa*~~~~~~~~~
Esseoviro  NP]ka-'   Ok-.   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUITNI
CII CHAGLIA MassaIsech5~~~~~~~)ft   ~~~  /  __   ~~  ,~~ -   -MAL



