Document of                                  -
The World Bank                                      J
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4197-MOR
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PRO.
February 10, 1933
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Projects Department
Agriculture II Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedl by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dirham (DH)
US$1 = DH 5.65 1/
DH 1 = US$o.1770
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
FISCAL YEAR OF THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
January 1 - December 31
1/  The Moroccan Dirham is floating.  The rate of US$1 = DH 5.65 was
average for 1982 and is used in this report. In November 1982
the rate was DH 6.15.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABREVIATIONS
ASAP          Associations syndicales agricoles privi.l6giges
(Agricultural syndicates)
CLCA          Caisse locale de credit agricole (LocaL Agricultural Credit Bank)
CMU           Central Management Unit
CMV           Centre de mise en valeur (Agricultural Development Center)
CNCA          Caisse nationale de credit agricole (National Agricultural
Credit Bank)
CRCA          Caisse regionale de credit agricole (Regional Agricultural
Credit Bank)
CT            Centre de travaux (Work Center)
DER           Direction de l'equipement rural (Directorate of Rural Equipment)
DPA           Direction provinciale de l'agriculture
(Provincial Directorate of Agriculture)
FAO/CP        Cooperative Programme of the Food and Agriculture Organization
and the World Bank
FERTIMA       Societe de fabrication des engrais
(Fertilizer Manufacturing Corporation)
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
LSI           Large Scale Irrigation
MARA          Ministere de l'agriculture et de la reforme agraire
(Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform)
ME            Ministere de l1'quipement (Ministry of Civil Works)
MF            Ministare des finances (Ministry of Finance)
MI            Ministere de l'interieur (Ministry of the Interior)
OED           Operations Evaluation Department of the World Bank
O & M         Operations and Maintenance
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ONE           Office national d'4lectricite (National Electricity Office)
ONICL         Office national interprofessionnel des cereales et legumineuses
(National Office of Cereals and Pulses)
ORMVA         Office r4gional de mise en valeur agricole
(Regional Office of Agricultural Development)
ORMVASM       Office regional de mise en valeur agricole de Souss-Massa
SMSI          Small and Medium Scale Irrigation
SONACOS       Societe nationale de commercialisation des semences
(National Seed Marketing Corporation)



(i)
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF CHE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I.    INTRODUCTION                                                                1
A.  Origin                                                                  I
B.  The Agriculture Sector                                                  1
II.   THE SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION (SMSI) SUBSECTOR                      4
A.  Introduction                                                            4
B.  Types of SMSI Water Sources and the National SMSI Potential             5
C.  Social and Institutional Obstacles to SMI Modernization                 7
D.  The Place of SMSI Projects in Morocco's Development Plan               10
III.  THE PROJECT AREA                                                           10
A.  Ghiss                                                                  10
B.  Middle Sebou                                                           11
C.  Chichaoua                                                              11
D.  Jemaa Sahim                                                            12
E.  Souss                                                                  12
F.  Water Balance                                                          13
IV.   THE PROJECT                                                                15
A.  Objectives and Summary Description                                     15
B.  Detailed Features                                                      16
C.  Status of Engineering Design and Schedule of Implementation            18
D.  Cost Estimates                                                         19
E.  Financing                                                              21
F.  Procurement                                                            22
G.  Disbursements                                                          23
H.  Accounts and Audit                                                     24
I.  Environmental Effect                                                   25
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                     25
A.  Organization and Management of Construction                            25
B. Management of the Operation and Maintenance
of Irrigation Systems                                               27
C.  Preparatory Legal and Administrative Actions                           28
D. Organization, Management, and Instituticonal Support
of On-Farm Development                                              32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Morocco in June 1982. The mission was composed o- Messrs. R.B. Palmer
(mission leader), S. Darghouth (rural engineer), J. Doolette (agronomist),
T. Baudon (economist), P. Pascon (consulting sociologist), and P. Pallas
(consulting hydrologist).



(ii)
Page
VI.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING                                     34
A.  Present and Future Land-Use                                           34
B.  Crop Yields and Production                                            36
C.  Livestock Development                                                 36
D.  Marketing and Prices                                                  38
VII.  FARM MODEL BUDGETS AND COST RECOVERY                                      39
A.  Farm Budgets                                                          39
B.  Cost Recovery                                                         41
(i) Delimited Modern Perimeters                                     41
(ii) Traditional and Undelimited Modern Perimeters                   44
VIII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS, AND RISKS                                       47
A.  Benefits and Beneficiaries                                            47
B.  Economic Analysis                                                     50
C.  Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks                                52
IX.   SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS                            54
ANNEXES ATTACHED TO APPRAISAL REPORT
1.    List of Documents in Project File                                         56
2.    Implementation Schedule                                                   59
3.    List of Contracts and Procurement Procedure                               61
4.    Summary Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures                       66
5.    Other Tables:
(a)  Agricultural Development Support Services                          70
(b)  Livestock Component Support Services                               71
(c)  Land Use                                                           72
(d)  Crop Yields                                                        73
(e) Crop and Livestock Incremental
Production at Full Development                                  74
6.    Disbursement Schedule                                                     75
7.    Organization Chart                                                        76
8.    Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
and Consultants:
(a)  On-farm Water Management                                           77
(b)  Extension Planning Consultant                                     77
(c)  Small-Scale Farm Equipment Study                                   78
MAPS
No. IBRD 16646:  Location of Sub-project Areas
and Future SMSI Potential
No. IBRD 16651:  Ghiss Sub-project Area
No. IBRD 16648:  Middle Sebou Sub-project Area
No. IBRD 16649:  Chichaoua Sub-project Area
No. IBRD 16650:  Jemaa Sahim Sub-project Area
No. IBRD 16647:  Souss Sub-project Area



(iii)
ANNEXES IN THE IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
9.   SMSI Subsector
10.   Water Balance:  Mobilization, Supply, and Demand
11.   Detailed Description of Project Works
12.   Detailed Cost Estimates
13.   Land-Use and Intensification of Agriculture
14.   Livestock Development
15.   Farm Models
16.   Markets, Marketing, Prices, and Agricultural Credit
17.   Economic Analysis
18.   Cost and Rent Recovery Analysis.






KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCT ION
A. Origin
1.01      Following  a  Bank  agricultural  sector  mission!/  in  1979  which
recommended support for Morocco's efforts in irrigation rehabilitation and the
development of small scale irrigation, a Bank mission in May 1980 made a
preliminary identification of a group of small and medium scale irrigation
(SMSI) projects representing both rehabilitation and new irrigation.  All the
projects chosen had already been included in the draft Five-Year National
Development   Plan   (1981-1985).    In   November   1980   a   joint  FAO/CP-Bank
identification  mission  visited  Morocco,  and  l:he  Government  confirmed  its
interest in receiving Bank financing for an SMS'[ project and requested FAO/CP
to assist the national staff in its preparation. The project was appraised ia
June 1982.  Apart from investment in five irrigation perimeters2/ covering a
total area of 17,750 ha, the project would be used by the Moroccan Government
as a vehicle to establish an institutional framework that will encourage more
intensive land-use, improved on-farm practices, effective operation and
maintenance of irrigation systems, and adequate and equitable cost recovery in
SMSI perimeters both under the project and in the future; and prepare a second
SMSI project.
B. The Agriculture Sector
1.02      The Place  of Agriculture  in  the  Economy.  Morocco's  population  is
estimated at about 20 million (1980), with an annual growth rate of 2.9%.
Some 60% of the population live in rural areas, and agriculture provides about
40% of total employment. Per capita GNP was US$790 in 1979, but about 45% of
Moroccan families live at or below the estimated rural absolute poverty level
of US$238 (1981) per capita.3/  Whilst the  share of agricultural employment
in the overall labor market is declining (along with the sector's share in
GDP), absolute employment in agriculture is still increasing.
1.03      The value of agricultural output has grown at an average annual rate
of 2.4% (in constant prices) for the past fifteen years, a lower rate than in
the other sectors of the economy and less than the growth of demand for
agricultural  products,  which  has  led  to  a  rapid  increase  in  imports.
Agriculture contributed 13.4% to Morocco's GDP in 1978-1980, down from about
20%  in 1968-1972 and  15%  in 1973-1977.  Cereals and pulses contributed  36%,
livestock 33%, citrus 11%, vegetables 11%, industrial crops and forestry about
6% to the agricultural GDP in 1978-80.
1/  See Morocco Agricultural Sector Report 2667-MOR of May 2, 1980.
2/  The term "perimeter" is adopted  from French usage and means a contiguous
area or a group of neighboring areas under a unified irrigation system.
3/ Absolute poverty is defined as the income level below which a minimal
nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements are not
affordable.



1.04     Agricultural  exports  accounted  for  32.6%  of  the  value  of  total
exports in 1980, down from about 58% in 1971-73.   Food products represented
86% of total agricultural exports in 1980, with fruits and vegetables
accounting  for  about  50%  of  these  food  exports.   Agricultural  imports
accounted for 27% of total imports in 1980, with bread wheat, sugar, and
edible oils representing about 50% of these agricultural imports. Morocco has
been a net importer of food since 1974.
1.05     Agricultural    Performance.       The    agricultural    trade    balance
deteriorated during the 1970's, with the ratio of exports to imports having
declined to about 69% in 1980, down from about 128% at the beginning of the
seventies.   The average growth of agricultural imports in 1978-80 was 19.8%
p.a. (in value), while agricultural exports expanded at 14.8% p.a. (in value)
during the same period.  Despite an improvement in the terms of trade in the
late 70's, total agricultural exports in 1980 did not match the imports of
basic foodstuffs (cereals, edible oils, sugar).
1.06     During  the  early  part  of  the  current  Five-Year  Development  Plan
period (1981-1985), the overall situation has been characterized by a very
uneven performance among agricultural products and agricultural zones, as a
result partly of severe drought conditions throughout much of the country and
partly of price policy and Government promotional efforts.   For those crops
where price policy has not permitted farmers to obtain sufficient income (oil
seeds, cotton, maize), or where farming practices have not been improved
(cereals and pulses in non-irrigated areas),the Government's objective of
increased production has met with limited or no success.   Progress has been
most rapid when prices have permitted net income per ha and per day from
family labor to be attractive and where effective organization has permitted
the introduction of modern farming techniques. The latter has generally been
more frequent, and hence performance much better, for products grown under
irrigation (sugarcane and a major share of the production of sugarbeets (75%),
forage for transformation into milk (50%) and citrus (85%)).  These results
stem partly from the high priority given to large-scale irrigation in the
public investment programs during the past fifteen years and the creation of
regional    agricultural    development    offices    with    wide    supervisory
responsibilities in the major irrigated areas.
1.07     Government  Objectives  and  Strategy  for  Agricultural  Sector.   The
Government's objectives for the agriculture sector are summarized in the
1981-1985 Plan as follows: (i) improvement of agricultural self-sufficiency
through  increased  production  of staple  foods;  (ii)  increased  agricultural
exports through intensified production of off-season vegetables and fruit;
(iii) reduction of social and regional income disparities through increased
investment and employment creation in depressed areas; and (iv) more emphasis
on processing and marketing of agricultural products.
1.08     The  strategy  proposed  to  achieve  the  objectives  stated  above
includes:   (i)  increasing  the  share  devoted  to agriculture  in the public
investment program; (ii) increasing public investment in the rainfed sector
and in small and medium scale irrigation schemes; (iii) pursuing a price
policy which will ensure equitable returns to the farmer and stimulate import
substitution  for  the  basic  foodstuffs;   (iv)  revising  the  Agricultural
Investment Code; (v) promoting an adaptation of the land-ownership system to
ensure rational and intensive use of resources; (vi) strengthening the
planning and project preparation capabilities of the Ministry of Agriculture;
and (vii) expanding the role and lending program of the National Agricultural
Credit Bank (CNCA). These objectives and strategy are in line with the Bank's



- 3 -
recommendations for the sector.  The increased emiphasis in the Plan on small
and medium scale irrigation reflects the recognition that this subsector has
been  relatively  neglected  in  the  past  and  offers  an  opportunity  for
substantial increases in agricultural production needed to meet unfulfilled
demand in many regions as well as for relieving poverty among small holders.
Annual investments in small and medium scale irrigation are projected to
increase fivefold under the Plan.  The subsector is discussed in some detail
in Chapter II and in Annex 9.
1.09     Bank Involvement in the Agriculture Sector.   Bank group lending for
agriculture in Morocco began in 1965 and to date 17 projects have been
undertaken and supported by US$567.0 million in Bank loans and US$24.0 million
in IDA credits.  They include five irrigation projects:  Sidi Slimane (FY65,
completed), Sebou I (FY70, completed), Souss Ground Water (FY75, completed),
Doukkala I (FY76, completed), and Doukkala II (FY77).  There also have been
four agricultural credit projects (FY66, FY73, FY77, all completed, and FY79
ongoing), an agro-industries and flood control project (Sebou II, FY74), five
rainfed agricultural development projects (Meknes FY75, Fes-Karia-Tissa FY78,
Loukkos FY80,  the Middle Atlas FY82,  and Oulmis-Rommani FY83);  one export-
oriented project, the Vegetable Production and Marketing project (FY79), and
one Forestry Project (FY82).
1.10     Performance of Bank-financed projects has generally been satisfactory.
Performance in irrigation projects has been good cnce initial problems of land
distribution, and organizational delays in const'ruction and procurement of
irrigation equipment have been overcome.   Inadequate cost recovery has been
the major issue, but an increase in irrigation water charges of about 100%
approved in 1980 and implementation of the proposals included in the present
project are expected to provide a satisfactory resolution (see paras.  7.05-
7.15).   The  project  performance  audit  report  for  the  Sebou  I  project,
submitted on June 21, 1982 (Report No. 3942), stresses the project's success
in institution building and in providing infrastructure to achieve increases
in  the  production  of  important  irrigated  crops.   It  also  highlights  the
importance of successful extension work, timely allocation of funds to 0 & M,
and collection of water charges, as well as the need to complete the land
reform programs.   The project  performance  audit  report  for the Doukkala  I
Irrigation project, submitted on September 24, 1982, stresses the project's
success in providing an appropriate design for the irrigation system,
effective land consolidation, a strong senior management, and adequate
extension  programs.   The  project  was  successfully  completed,  with  water
efficiency,  crop  production,  cropping  intensity,  and  the  rate  of  return
exceeding appraisal estimates.   Performance of the four agricultural credit
projects has been good.  OED reports for three of them (Report 2543, June 15,
1979, Report 3248, December 23, 1980)1/ stress the contribution made by the
loans to agricultural development, their success in establishing an efficient
credit institution and the successful expansion of credit to small farmers.
They also underline the importance of agriculturaL price policy, extension and
input distribution for improved economic and financial performance of the
credit loans. These issues are being addressed through Bank sector work. The
Fourth Agricultural credit Project has recently run into liquidity problems
because of the 1980-1981 drought which resulted in rescheduling of farmers'
debts.   Adequate measures  to deal with  these  temporary problems have been
taken.  A fifth project to provide a line of credit to CNCA is currently under
preparation and is scheduled to be appraised in early 1983.   In the rainfed
subsector, the first project (Meknes, FY75) experienced considerable delays in
1/  The First Agricultural  Credit Project was  reviewed  in OED's Report  on
Agricultural credit Programs, Background Paper No. 4.



- 4 -
implementation  due  to  complicated   land   redistribution   problems,   poor
preparation   of   project    components,    over-optimistic    assessment    of
implementation targets, and inexperience in the organization and management of
rural development projects.   The Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture project  (FY78)
was designed to minimize organization and management problems encountered with
Meknes, and the implementation of both the productive and the social
components  is generally  satisfactory.   The  Loukkos  project  is  progressing
satisfactorily and the Middle Atlas and Forestry projects have made a good
start. The Oulmes-Rommani project was approved by the Board in December 1982.
1.11     Lessons   learned   from   these   projects,   both   technical   and
institutional, have been taken into account in designing the proposed
project.  Start-up delays, experienced by most projects in Morocco, should be
minimized as a result of early nomination of key personnel, availability
before negotiations of first year designs and work plans, and the prompt
allocation of financial resources for the start-up year.   Project management
problems should be minimized as a result of the proposed reliance on existing
management structures and the establishment of national and provincial-level
coordination committees, which have proven useful in the implementation of
other Bank-financed projects.
II. THE SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
A. Introduction
2.01     Background.   In Morocco  as  elsewhere  the  differentiation  between
small and medium scale irrigation (SMSI) and large scale irrigation (LSI) has
many facets.  Large scale projects are generally new investments (rather than
rehabilitation)  and cover  10-20,000 ha or more.   They  involve major civil
works for regulating and conveying water, modern distribution systems with
geometric lay-outs, and land consolidation, and they are developed and managed
by independent well-staffed regional agricultural development offices._/
LSI projects are designed to permit precise regulation of the rate of flow of
irrigation water and the adoption of well-planned and intensive cultivation
patterns.  Morocco has nine LSI perimeters with a total potential of about
900,000 ha, of which about 560,000 ha have been completed, including portions
of the Gharb (Sebou) and Doukkala perimeters financed respectively by Bank
loans 643-MOR and 1201-MOR.  In the SMSI subsector, projects range from a few
ha to several thousand ha and fall into two main types: modern schemes, which
are technically similar to large scale projects and involve land consolidation
and construction of new irrigation networks; and traditional schemes, which do
not involve land consolidation and have more rustic systems for water
distribution that usually rely on traditional water rights.   Both types of
SMSI projects, but especially traditional ones, represent wide differences in
the nature and reliability of water sources and pose a variety of social and
institutional  problems.   These  aspects  are  discussed  in  para.  2.03  and
subsequent paragraphs, in Chapter V, and in Annex 9.  According to very rough
estimates, there are about 500,000 ha under irrigation in traditional SMSI
areas, few of which have been improved or rehabilitated, and about 100,000 ha
of rainfed areas with the potential for development as modern SMSI perimeters.
1/ Office r4gional de mise en valeur agricole (ORMVA), autonomous
regional development agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Agrarian Reform, which have multidisciplinary responsibility for
development of certain large-scale irrigation projects.



2.02     Modern  SMSI  Perimeters.   These  projects  are  introduced  mainly  in
rainfed areas, with potential access to a secure source of water and where the
absence of traditional irrigation arrangements and the prospects for major
increases in income make the farmers more receptive to land consolidationr.
Irrigation  development  costs  fall  in  the  range  of  DH  20-30,000  per  ha
(US$3,500-5,300 per ha).  Benefits, while substantial,  are in general lower
than they are in LSI projects because small project size and location at
greater distances from processing plants often preclude the introduction of
high-profit industrial crops such as sugarbeets which have been successful in
LSI  projects.   There  exists,  nevertheless,  a  significant  potential  for
development of viable modern SMSI perimeters and two are included in the
present project.
2.03     Traditional  SMSI Perimeters.   These projects are almost  invariably
developed in perimeters where irrigation has been practiced for centuries,
usually on the basis of springs, resurgences, or river water diverted by small
temporary  dams  rebuilt  by  farmers  after  each  flood  period.   Water  is
distributed to farms on the basis of secular water rights through intricate
networks of earth canals ("seguias") where water losses are generally high.
In   some  cases,   limited  modernization   investments   (canal   lining   and
installation of gates) made generations ago have become badly deteriorated.
Farmers themselves carry out operation and naintenance, the latter only
unevenly.  Farms are predominantly small (0.2 to 3 ha) and highly fragmented.
Improvement of these systems consists in constructing concrete intake
structures, lining "seguias", installing permanent outlets, and leveling and
draining where necessary.  Rehabilitation costs average about DH 8-20,000 per
ha (US$1,400-3,500 per ha).  Substantial project benefits can normally accrue
from reductions in water losses of up to 25-45% which permit higher yields and
more intensive cropping of existing irrigated plots and sometimes an expansion
of the irrigable area.  As a result of lower costs,  the economic  rate of
return is frequently higher than in modern SMSI projects.   There is a major
potential for rehabilitation of traditional perimeters in Morocco and three
are included in this project.
B. Types of SMSI Water Sources and the NTational SMSI Potential
2.04     The nature of the sources of water of an SMSI perimeter is usually
the major determinant of both costs and benefits, and therefore the
classification of sources is basic to SMSI investment planning.  In Morocco,
eight major types of existing or potential SMSI perimeters according to water
source can be identified, of which five can normally support year-round
irrigation and three are only intermittent.   The former can be summarized as
follows:  (i) the banks of uncontrolled perennial water courses and of large
perennial rivers upstream of dams.   Irrigation is achieved by diversion of
water courses and resurgences.  An estimated 124,000 ha of this type are being
irrigated along most of Morocco's major rivers; (ii) the low-lying terraces
located in the meanders and ox-bows of rivers downstream of existing or
proposed dams.  This land can be irrigated by pumping water released from the
dam into the river.  An estimated 36,000 ha o- potential irrigation of this
type exists, mainly along the middle reaches of the Sebou River and its
tributaries  above  the  flood  plain,  which  is  currently  under  development
through LSI projects  including Sebou I (Loan 643-MOR).   A modern perimeter
embracing a number of terraces of the Middle SEbou is included in the present
project; (iii) small traditional perimeters located in the piedmont and fed by
gravity from perennial springs through concrete lined canals and "seguias". A
chain of these perimeters, totaling about 100,000 ha, stretches all along the
piedmont of the Middle and High Atlas Mountains.   This chain  includes  the



- 6 -
Bittit perimeter of the Meknes project (Credit 555-MOR) and the Chichaoua
perimeter, which forms part of the present project; (iv) perimeters irrigated
by  pumping  groundwater  through  wells  or  tubewells.   Several  substantial
aquifers exist capable of supporting actual and potential irrigation on about
96,000 ha. The Souss Groundwater project (Loan 1123-MOR) is a modern perimeter
based on pumping from the Souss Valley aquifer.  The Vegetable Production and
Marketing project (Loan 1757-MOR) is financing greenhouse development based on
pumping from the Souss and the  Atlantic  Coast aquifers.   The present project
includes a traditional perimeter in Souss which will be developed to shift its
water source from uncertain resurgences to groundwater pumping; and (v) the
small oases  of the  Sub-Saharan  Desert regions.   Since  ancient times,  these
numerous oases have obtained their water from wells, drains, and more recently
by groundwater pumping (about 50,000 ha).  The intermittent types comprise the
following:   (i)  areas  of barley  cropping  based  on occasional floodwaters of
Saharan streams. These areas, which obtain sizeable harvests every five or ten
years, are probably at the limit of the definition of SMSI irrigation (about
100,000 ha); (ii) small traditional perimeters based on gravity diversion of
run-off from intermittent springs and water courses in the more arid southwest
Atlas piedmont (about 26,000 ha); and (iii) areas of semi-arid lower piedmont
cropping  benefiting  from  occasional violent rainfall  runoff.   This  form  of
irrigation based on rudimentary channeling of the runoff through plowed furrows
and onto fragile terraces provides limited benefits on about 70,000 ha.
2.05       The following table summarizes the different types of SMSI perimeters
by water source and region. See also Map No.IBRD 16646.
Types of Actual and Potential SMSI Areas
Perennial                      Intermittent       Total
River                     Sub
Uncon- Terraces                    Saha-              Piedmont
Basin         trolled   Below  Piedmont Aqui-  ran            Sahara   Run-
or Districts      Streams   Dams   Springs  fers  Oases    Floods   off
---------------------------- …000 ha ---------------------------
Rif                      12        2         -        -       -         -       1           15
Loukkos*                  5        -          -       -       -         -       -            5
Moulouya*                48        -          6       5       -         -       -           59
Sebou *                  13       35        35        5       -         -       2           90
Atlantic Coast            2        1          -      10       -         -       -           13
Bahira                    -        -         4       29       -         -      18           51
Oum-er-Rbia *            10        -        53       10       -         -      16           89
Tansift *                17        -         -       10       -        50      40          117
High Atlas                8        -         -        -       -         -       4           12
Souss *                   4        -         2       17       -         -      17          40
Pre-Sahara*               5        -         -        -      50        40       -           95
Sahara                    -        -         -       10       2        18       -           30
Totals             124       36        100      96      52       108      98          616
%                 20        6         16      16       8        18      16          100
* Including SMSI within ORMVA perimeters.
Source: DMV MARA, Complete Census, 1972.



C. Social and Institutional Obstacles to SMSI Modernization
2.06     Background.  The technical problems of SMSI modernization are often
closely  linked with social  and  institutional  questions.   For  example,  the
design of new and rehabilitated irrigation works, the volume of water flows,
and the definition of cropping patterns will be influenced by the nature of
traditional water rights possessed by farmers living downstream.  Development
of SMSI rehabilitation on the basis of pumping from an aquifer must take into
account on the one hand the farmers' lack of experience in the operation and
maintenance of modern tubewell equipment and on the other hand the long-term
effect of such pumping on the evolution of the aquifer and on the costs and
benefits  of  pumping  investments  already  made  in  the  same  aquifer.   In
traditional perimeters the replacement of age-old "seguias" by concrete flume
canals or canalettes can necessitate difficult changes in land holdings.   If
such investments are not adequately explained to the water users in advance,
they may be regarded as a usurpation of local initiative and lead farmers to
abdicate their traditional responsibility for maintenance, and, worse, to
disregard the common good in misappropriating irrigation equipment or in
breaking  canalettes  to  provide  extra  on-farm  water  intakes.   The  actual
occurrence of these phenomena in certain past rehabilitation efforts
underlines the importance of obtaining the formal agreement of water users in
traditional SMSI projects to proposed irrigation network designs and to the
allocation of water if it differs in any way from traditional water rights
(see paras. 5.19-5.24).
2.07     Land  Ownership.   Problems  of  land  ownership  can  be  particularly
difficult  because  of  their  complexity  and  tha  inadequacy  of  the  means
available for solving them.  Extreme fragmentation of holdings, which is a
natural result of the application of inheritance laws over a long period in
the often densely populated traditional perimeters, poses problems both for
efficient cultivation patterns and for equitable water distribution. However,
when weighed against the technical and social diEficulties of carrying out a
successful land consolidation program in the face of widely differing values
placed on upstream and downstream irrigated plot:s, the authorities normally
choose the simpler approach of rehabilitation and improvement within the
limitations of the existing patterns of land holdings and "seguias".  While
accepting somewhat lesser benefits, this approach often has the advantage of
securing more than offsetting reductions in costs by comparison with a modern
SMSI perimeter, thereby yielding a favorable rate of return.  A disadvantage
is the smaller family incomes resulting from the smaller farm holdings.   It
also places a premium on ensuring the existence of a satisfactory system of
organization of water users to preside over and monitor the distribution of
water and the maintenance of the irrigation network (see para. 5.08).
2.08     Fragmentation of holdings in rainfed areas with irrigation potential,
such as river terraces, is normally less severe than it is in traditional SMSI
perimeters.  This fact, together with the absence of traditional water rights
and the prospects for much greater gains from the conversion from rainfed to
irrigated cultivation, lessens the social obstacles to land consolidation.
Moreover, where very small holdings exist in a rainfed area that also contains
state lands, they can be enlarged through distribution of the latter under the
land reform program.   As a result,  in such  situations  the  project  design
chosen is normally the higher-cost, higher-benefit fully modern perimeter
based on land consolidation and geometric lay-out of the irrigation network
(see para.  5.14  and Annex  11).   As  in  the  case  of LSI  perimeters,  the
Government has the authority under the Agricultural Investment Code to declare



- 8 -
("delimit") such SMSI systems to be official irrigation perimeters.   In such
cases, the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA) assumes
responsibility for operation and maintenance of the network and exercises
major control over cropping patterns.
2.09     A  second  serious  problem  of  land  ownership  that  confronts  SMSI
development is public ownership linked to collective or private rights of
use.  Several types of such holdings prevalent in existing and potential SMSI
perimeters  generally have two major disadvantages  in common:   ambiguity of
control of the land and its resources and a large involvement of tenants,
renters, and sharecroppers, whose stake in the land may be long-standing but
without legal recognition.   As long as such  lands  remain in their present
low-yield condition, either in rainfed areas or degraded traditional SMSI
perimeters, a certain subsistence stability is often maintained, even for
generations, and renters and their descendents may behave outwardly like
owners.  However,  the creation of a modern SMSI perimeter in publicly-owned
rainfed land or rehabilitation in a publicly-owned traditional perimeter
inevitably upsets the previous stagnant equilibrium.  To ensure continuity in
the working of the soil and a sense of responsibility toward the irrigation
system to be installed or improved by the Government, it is highly desirable
to regularize ownership of these lands on a private basis before construction
of irrigation works. Two specific types of publicly-owned land, "Guich lands"
and "Habous lands", exist in the Middle Sebou sub-project area (para. 3.03);
their particular characteristics and the resolution of the problems they pose
are discussed in paras. 5.15 and 5.16.
2.10     Water rights are a third major social question to be addressed in the
rehabilitation of traditional SMSI  perimeters.   Water  rights  exist  at two
levels:   the right of a community to withdraw a certain aggregate flow of
water from a river or a spring, and the right of an individual to a certain
share of the water  right  of his  community.   Individual  water  rights  are
usually defined as (i) a specific period of time of day or night during which
a given right-holder may use the available water supply in a given "seguia"
and (ii) the interval in days between his irrigation turns.  Both community
and individual water rights are founded on centuries of practice and are
recognized in principle in a 1914 law which declares all water to be in the
public domain except water rights acquired by users before 1914.   A formal
procedure for specific recognition of the water rights of a given group of
users exists, but has not often been used, and most water rights remain
recorded  only  in  the  form  of  oral,  but  clearly  understood,  traditions.
Although individual rights may be inequitably distributed as a result of
inheritance and other factors, they are normally respected rigorously in years
of adequate water supply.
2.11     Within a given community the existence of several categories of water
rights, deriving apparently from local history rather than from specific water
supply situations, can complicate the distribution and use of water.
Community water is shared among members as a right of community membership,
but shares may differ widely in size depending on community customs and
inheritance.  These rights are not transferable, but may be leased.  A second
type is a water right bound to the land, ownership of the water right
depending  on  ownership  of  a  particular  plot,  and  the  two  always  being
transferred  together.   Upstream  plots  often  have  larger  water  rights  in
proportion to area than dowstream plots.   In some traditional  areas water
rights are defined in relation to the crop being cultivated within a community
land-use system. Water allocations are similarly defined in modern perimeters
operated under the Agricultural  Investment  Code.   A fourth common type of



- 9 -
water right is privately owned water which may be alienated and assigned
separately  from the land.   Where water rights and land rights are held by
different owners, a water rights rental market ofLen exists.
2.12     Water rights are quite simply a traditional method of allocating a
scarce and valuable resource.  Their existence corresponds to an economic and
social imperative in the absence of other means of allocation. In modern SMSI
perimeters, water allocation from secure sources is largely a mechanical
matter within a distribution system, whether gravity or sprinkler, designed
for specific cropping patterns and watering volumes, and managed by either a
regional office (ORMVA) or a provincial directorate (DPA) of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA).   In a perimeter such as Souss where
the traditional water supply (resurgences) has Largely disappeared and would
be replaced by a larger and more secure supply from groundwater pumping, the
traditional  water  rights  have  become  largely  vestigial   and  would  be
reactivated as agreed time allocations for use of the volumes of groundwater
pumped under the project.  In a perimeter such as Ghiss where the water supply
available to the farmers would be increased matinly through greater network
efficiency based on the same river source, the traditional water rights would
provide some farmers during high water periods with water volumes excess to
their needs, which  they might  sell,  barter or give  to other  farmers.   In
periods of drought the water rights would at a minimum remain as a social
safety-net  available  for  allocating  inadequate  water  supplies.   However,
whereas the oral basis of water rights continues to function more or less
satisfactorily in the subsistence conditions prevailing before rehabilitation
of  traditional  perimeters,  it needs  thereafte- to be  replaced  by  a more
concrete and legally recognized management syste.n within which the traditional
water rights, satisfactory 0 & M, and reasonable levels of cost recovery can
be ensured on a contractual basis.  A legal framework to meet this need was
established by a 1924 law providing for the creation of water users'
associations,1   but  needs  to  be  updated  in  light  of  current  Moroccan
institutions.   The nature of these changes and  the proposed  role of water
users' associations under the project are discussed in Chapter V.
2.13     Capacity of Government Organizations to Deal with SMSI Problems.  As
a result of the long neglect of SMSI, which ias ended only recently, the
Government's capacity to deal with the subsector needs strengthening, as
noted, in legislation, organization, and practical experience as well as in
on-farm technology.  Whereas a full understanding of the legal framework and
traditions affecting land ownership and water rights is possessed by a number
of officials in different ministries at the national and regional levels, they
are still a minority of the professional cadre concerned with SMSI and they
neither speak with one voice nor represent  more  than limited contact with
specific SMS.I situations.  MARA's Directorate of Rural Equipmient (DER),  and
certain Regional Offices for Agricultural Development including the one for
Souss-Massa (ORMVASM) in Agadir, have strong engineering staffs with much
experience in planning, design, and execution cf both LSI and SMSI systems.
However, the Provincial Directorates of Agriculture (DPA's), which would be
responsible for most SMSI investments, including four of the present sub-
projects, have generally less experience in planning and execution of either
LSI  or  SMSI  systems.   In  traditional  SMSI  perimeters  on-farm  irrigation
practices are widely inefficient even where water supplies are inadequate (see
para.  5.28).   However,  the  need  for  improved  mobilization  of  Government
resources to manage an expanded SMSI program has been recognized.  The effort
is underway and would be supported by the proposed project as discussed in
Chapter V.
1/ Dahir of June 15, 1924.



- 10 -
D. The Place of SMSI Projects in Morocco's Development Plan
2.14     Under the national  strategy for  irrigated agriculture,  a tempo of
investment in SMSI is envisaged that recognizes the rapid growth of national
demand for food and the need to improve on-farm practices and the standard of
living  of  low-income  rural  populations  in  zones  of  potential  modern  and
degraded  traditional  irrigation  perimeters.   After  a  lengthy  period  of
Government  concentration  on  LSI,  the  draft  Development  Plan  for  1981-85
provides for a major increase in SMSI investment from an average of about
DH 20-25 million per year during the past two plan periods to a projected
DH 125 million per year.   This planned  increase of  fourfold  in real  terms
corresponds to an increase in area of SMSI projects from 46,000 ha actually
realized in the 1973-77 plan period and 17,000 ha in the shorter 1978-80 plan
period to an estimated 79,000 ha in the period 1981-85.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01     The five sub-projects included in the project -- Ghiss, Middle Sebou,
Chichaoua, Jemaa Sahim, and Souss -- are located in widely separated parts of
the country, represent five different types of water source as well as three
different climate zones, and are linked by the common denominators of dry
summers and great irregularity and year-to-year variability of rain which
comes in the fall-to-spring period.  Detailed descriptions of the sub-project
areas are presented in the FAO/CP preparation report (No. 21/82 MOR. 23) and
are summarized below. Agricultural institutions, production, and marketing in
the areas are discussed in Chapters V and VI (see also Maps).
A. Ghiss
3.02     This sub-project area of 920 ha (5% of the total project area)  is
located on the Mediterranean coast in the province of Al Hoceima and near the
city of the same name.   The climate is typically Mediterranean with a mild
winter,  hot dry summer,  and average annual rainfall of about 300 mm.   The
perimeter is a traditional one of the first type mentioned in para. 2.04, that
is, irrigation by diversion from an uncontrolled permanent stream, the Ghiss
River.   The feeder canals  from the river and  the "seguias"  were partially
lined with concrete in the 1930's, but these works are now badly degraded.
The perimeter is located adjacent to the recently completed modern irrigation
perimeter of 4,800 ha on the Nekor River, and the two perimeters, together
with the city of Al Hoceima, comprise a small and isolated economic region cut
off on three sides by the steep and high slopes of the Mediterranean spurs of
the Rif Mountains.  The sub-project area forms a natural coastal flood plain
and consists largely of alluvial soils appropriate for a substantial variety
of grain, vegetable and fodder crop production.   The population of the sub-
project area is estimated at about 9,600 persons, representing about 1,100
households.  All land is privately owned and the average size of holdings of
0.84 ha is the smallest of all the sub-project areas.   Farms under one ha
represent   78%  of  holdings.    The  cropping   intensity  and  the  harvest
intensity!/  are both currently estimated  at  138%  and would  rise  to  about
168% under the project.
1/ The harvest intensity is greater than the cropping intensity
where alfalfa is grown since there are multiple cuttings of
alfalfa per year and its area is therefore counted twice in the
harvest intensity.



- 11 -
B. Middle Sebou
3.03     This sub-project area of 4,870 ha (27% cf the total project area),
wh'lch is a first slice of a potential 36,000 ha of SMSI in the Middle Sebou
basin, is located in the pre-Rif uplands about 60 km north-west of Fes in the
provinces of Fes, Taounate, and Sidi Kacem.  It is a perimeter of the second
type (para. 2.04), consisting of about 28 terraces of varying size located in
the meanders of the Sebou River in a stretch of about 30 km extending
downstream from the confluence of the Sebou and  the Inouene Rivers.   With
minor exceptions, these terraces are currently rainfed, and the sub-project
would be developed  as a modern perimeter.   Its  source  of water would  be
pumping from the Sebou River whose water supply is adequate to meet the needs
of the sub-project throughout the year (para. 3.09).  The climate is semi-arid
with average annual rainfall of about 560 mm, the highest of the sub-project
areas, hot summers, and winters with periodic freezing and snough cool weather
to permit production of apples, cherries, and other pomen and stone fruit.
In the period from fall to spring, winds are westerly and bring rain.
Easterly winds prevail in the summer and occasionally very hot desert winds
("chergui") cause considerable crop damage. Soils are generally deep alluvial
clay of a heavy texture of good quality.  About 14,800 persons live in the
sub-project  area  in  about  2,200 households.   The  average  size  of  the
approximately  1,550 holdings  itn the  terraces  is 3.15 ha.   However,  it  is
estimated that for every irrigable hectare owned ia the terraces, most farmers
own on average about two hectares of rainfed pasture or cereals land on the
steep slopes above.  The bulk of the land is owned privately, but an estimated
41% is collective "Guich" land and 3% "Habous" land (see paras. 2.09, 5.15 and
5.16).  The cropping and harvest intensities at present are an estimated 87%.
With the project, the cropping intensity would increase to 132%, and the
harvest intensity to 153%, reflecting the introduction of alfalfa.
C. Chichaoua
3.04     An example of the third type of SMSI pet-imeter (para.  2.04)  fed by
several permanent springs, Chichaoua is located in the northern piedmont of
the Atlas Mountains in the province of Marrakech about 80 km west of the city
of Marrakech and is a traditional perimeter of 1,900 ha (11% of the total
project area). The climate is Mediterranean-continental at the lower limit of
semi-arid with an average rainfall of only 178 mm, the lowest of the five
sub-projects.   Year-to-year  fluctuations  are  sharp,  having  ranged  between
115 mm and 604 mm during the last half century.  Temperatures rarely go below
freezing in winter and are very high in summer.  The soils are generally over
80 cm deep of a varying clay-sand texture, with good permeability and no
salinity.  During the 1940's an extensive project of water control was carried
out which included concrete feed canals from the springs, a concrete
distribution network in the Tajoujet sub-perimeter, and a syphon and aqueduct
for stream crossings.  The latter have been destroyed by floods and the canals
are badly eroded.  About 14,400 persons live in the perimeter and represent
about 2,000 households.  There are about 1,690 farms and the average plot is
1.13 ha, with 72% of holdings below one hectare. Ownership is almost entirely
private, although a substantial number of farners are members of three
agrarian  reform  cooperatives.   Without  the  project,  cropping  and  harvest
intensities are estimated, respectively, at 133% and 135%.  With the project,
they would rise somewhat to about 134% and 143%, respectively.
1/ Small-seed family of apples and pears.



- 12 -
D. Jemaa Sahim
3.05     Located in the province of Safi about 180 km southwest of Casablanca
and about 40 km from the Atlantic Ocean, this currently rainfed sub-project
area of 410 ha (2% of the total project area) is an exception to the typology
of para. 2.04.  As a modern perimeter, its future source of water, guaranteed
under the regional master plan, would be a maximum flow of 300 1/s at all
times from the existing Safi Canal, which is the continuation of the main
downstream canal of the Doukkala projects and the source of industrial and
potable water for the city of Safi situated 32 km from the perimeter.   The
semi-arid climate, resembling that of Ghiss, is moderated by the nearby ocean,
and average annual rainfall  is about 400 mm.   The project area occupies  a
gently rolling depression where the soils are largely "vertisols" of varying
quality, and generally having  a depth  of 80 cm or more.   Because  of  the
topography, sprinkler irrigation is planned.  The population is estimated at
about  1,800  persons  representing  about  360  households.   The  land  is  all
privately owned, and the average size of plots among the 190 farms is 2.15 ha.
With the project, the present estimated cropping and harvest intensities of
100% would increase to about 150% and 165%, respectively.
E. Souss
3.06     This sub-project area of 9,650 ha (54% of the total project area) is
located in the provinces of Taroudant and Agadir in the wide and 150 km-long
Souss Valley which separates the Atlas and the Anti-Atlas Mountains in
southern Morocco.  The sub-project area is a collection of 12 largely detached
component areas strung along both banks of the Souss wadi for about 30 km
upstream and downstream of the city of Taroudant which is the capital of the
Taroudant province and located at the center of the valley.  The sub-project
is a first slice of a projected program of rehabilitation of traditional areas
totaling 22,000 ha included in the Souss Valley Master Plan.  In the past, a
traditional perimeter irrigated by the diversion of stream resurgences (type
(i)  of  para.   2.04)   largely   through  "seguias"   and  in  part   through
concrete-lined canals, much of the area is today under rainfed cultivation as
a result of gradual disappearance of the resurgences following extended
drought  and  a rapid  increase  in private pumping  from the valley  aquifer.
Under the project the Souss perimeter would be rehabilitated for gravity
irrigation on the basis of groundwater pumping by wells and tubewells (type
(iv) of para. 2.04).  A mathematical model analysis of the effects of future
water-use on the lowering of the Souss Valley water table prepared by the
Government's Water Resources Directorate (DRE) and an evaluation by a
hydrologist consultant to the Bank have demonstrated that the proposed
sub-project is justified from the stand-point of water availability in the
sub-project area and in the neighboring areas provided that control of future
pumping in the valley is implemented (see para 5.26 and Annex 10, Appendix 1).
The climate is semi-arid, with average annual rainfall of 227 mm, hot summers,
and little risk of winter freezing. Hot desert winds ("chergui") occur about
50 days per year in the summer and fall.  Soils range from clay to sandy-clay
with much variation and are of moderate depth and permeability. About 48,800
persons live in the sub-project area and constitute about 5,700 households.
The land is 96% privately owned, and the 3,415 farms in the area have an
average size of 2.83 ha. At present, the cropping and harvest intensities are
estimated at, respectively, 71% and 75%.  With the project, they are expected
to increase to about 113% and 123%, respectively.



- 13 -
F, Water Balance
3.07     An analysis of the water balance  in the  five sub-project areas  is
presented in Annex 10 and summarized in the two tables below.  Table 'i) shows
the contrasting situations, both at present and with the project, of the two
perimeters currently under continuing irrigation.  In Ghiss, at present, net
aggregate  demand  for  irrigation water  at  the  farm parcel  remains  roughly
constant at about 120 I/s throughout the year as a result of relatively light
cropping during the summer, whereas in Chichaouai it varies by a factor of
seven between 85 l/s and 600 1/s in response to heavier summer cultivation and
the needs of fruit trees and olives.   In contrast, the availability of water
to the headworks is characterized by a remarkably stable supply of about 1,170
I/s from the springs of Chichaoua and an average fluctuation in the flow of
the Ghiss River of ten fold between 353 l/s in July and 3,642 l/s in ApriL.
These countervailing inequalities yield roughly similar results for the water
balance of the two perimeters:   a substantial average surplus during most of
the year and a deficit in the dry season, marginal in the case of Ghiss, and
more significant for Chichaoua where it averages 12-14% of needs in April,
August, and September.
3.08     With  the  project,   the  water  balance   in  Chichaoua  would  be
substantially improved as a result oL more efficient use of the constant water
supply, the three monthly deficits being eliminated and the average balance
available for use downstream of the perimeter being increased by more than 50%
to about 560 l/s. Sub-project benefits would derive mainly from higher value
crops and better scheduling of crop rotations.   In the case of Ghiss, the
available water supply during low water (July) woulld be increased 50% by river
intake works, which together with greater network efficiency, would permit a
substantial intensification of summer cultivation.   The large current water
surpluses of the period September-June would continue to be available even
after the projected transfer of moderate amounts of water (averaging about
190 l/s) from the Ghiss conveyance system to meet an excess demand of about
5-10% in the larger Nekor perimeter. July would continue to have a small, but
manageable average deficit of 52 I/s or 13% of projected gross demand at the
farm parcel. In view of this limitation, yields of summer crops are projected
somewhat  below  optimum  levels  in  the  Ghiss  farm models  (para.  7.02  and
Annex 15).  However, in view of the traditional rxghts of the Ghiss farmers to
the Ghiss River waters, the Government has agreecd that in case of a shortage
of water in the Ghiss River the DPA of Al Hoceima would take all measures
necessary to ensure that any transfer of water made to the Nekor perimeter
would not be materially detrimental to irrigation in the Ghiss perimeter.
3.09     Water Balance Table (ii) below shows the differing situations in the
three perimeters that are currently rainfed and would be irrigated by pumping
under   the   project.'/   In   the  high-rainfall   Middle   Sebou   perimeter,
irrigation is projected primarily for the five months May through September
and net water demand at the farm parcel is moderately stable during this
period.   In Jemaa  Sahim and  Souss,  where  irrigation  is year-long,  demand
varies by  fourteen-fold and two-fold respectively, reflecting  the  relative
need for winter irrigation which in Jemaa Sahim is less than it is in Souss.
The flow of water is available in great surplus at all times  in the Sebou
River,  leaving a low month balance  50% above  gross demand at the pumping
stations.
1/ Souss is included here since existing irrigation from resurgences
is practised only on an estimated 2/3 of the sub-project area, is
intermittent and declining, and would be replaced by pumping under
the project.



- 14 -
(i) Water Balance of Traditional Gravity Sub-project Perimeters
To Be Rehabilitated and Currently under Irrigation
(Water flow equivalents in liters per second)
Ghiss                   Chichaoua
(Rainfall 303 mm)         (Rainfall 178 mm)
Month of   Month of       Month of   Month of
Low       High            Low        High
Balance   Balance         Balance   Balance
(July)    (April)         (Sept.)    (Nov.)
A. Present Irrigation System
and Cropping Pattern
(24-hr irrigation)
Demand for Irrigation Water
- Net Demand at Parcel6            124         102            607         85
- Gross Demand at Headworks         273 /1      224 /1       1,356 /2    189 /2
Water Availability at Headworks
(for average year)                 235 /5      550 /7        1,163     1,174
Balance                         -38         326           -193        985
B. With Project (24-hr irrigation)
Demand for Irrigation Water
- Net Demand at Parcel/6            258          97            565        135
- Gross Demand at Headworks        405 /3       214 /3         941 /4    226 /4
Water Available at Headworks          353         630 /7       1,163      1,174
Balance                         -52         416             222        948
Excess Demand at Nekor Headworks    /8            122           n.a.       n.a.
Balance,
after Transfer to Nekor        /8         294           n.a.       n.a.
/1  Assumes field efficiency of 70%, conveyance eff. 65%, overall eff. 45.5%.
/2     "       I        It     "  70%,      "            64%,    "I   It  44.8%.
/3    "I    "t          "t   "I  75%,                "   85%,           "   63.8%.
/4     "       "        "      "  75%,      "        "   80%,                60.0%.
/5  Assumes availability of 2/3 of Ghiss River flow at intakes of headreach
canals.
/6  After account is taken of rainfall and evapo-transpiration.
/7  April water availability at headworks is limited to the capacity of the
two  existing  headreach  canals  at  present  and  by  the  new  single
replacement headreach canal with the project.  April water availability
in the river averages 3,642 1/s.
/8  Under the project, transfers would not be made to Nekor to the material
detriment  of  Ghiss,  so that  in  the  deficit  month  of  July  relatively
little water,  if any, would normally be transferred to meet  the Nekor
excess demand of 140 1/s that month.  This latter shortfall is less than
10% of total Nekor requirements in July.



- 15 -
At Jemaa Sahim, the fixed maximum allocation of water from the Safi Canal
provides an average excess of 50% but just meets needs in the low months of
July and August.   Excess water remains  in the canal and  flows  to the Safi
reservoir.   In Souss, pumping of groundwater woulc  be gauged to equal demand,
and, as noted in para. 3.06, studies that have been made indicate that the
aquifer can satisfy the needs of the sub-project if future expansion of
pumping in the Souss valley is properly controlled as planned.
(ii) Water Balance of Sub-project Perimeters
To be Irrigated by Pumping and Currentlv under Rainfed Cultivation
(Water flow equivalents in liters per second)
Middle Sebou       Jemaa Sahim        Souss
(Rainfall 561 mm)   (Rainfall 398 mm)   (Rainfall 227 mm)
Month of Month of  Month of Month of  Month of Month of
Low     High      Low     High      Low     High
(20-hour Irrigation)    Balance  Balance   Balance  Balance   Balance  Balance
(J-uly)  (FMa_y)  (  Jul1y)  (7De--.)   (J3 ul y)  (TDe -.)
Net Demand at Parcel    3,081    2,169     184     13       2,287    1,150
Gross Demand at Headworks  4,832 /a 3,402 /a  241 /b  17 /b   3,811 /c  1,917 /c
Gross Demand at
Pumping Stationsd     5,799    4,082     289     20       4,573    2,301
Water Availability
at River (Canal)     14,700  46,200      300    300        n.a.    n.a.
Balance         8,901   42,118      11    280           0        0
/a Assumes field efficiency of 75%, conveyance eff. of 85%, overall eff. of 63.8%.
T7-         of    it "   i 85%,    "            90%,   "         "   76.5%.
Ic    "           it    " 75%,               " 80%,   "           60.0%.
7T  Assumes pumping 20 hours/day.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
4.01           The project would be the Bank's first participation in Morocco's
newly expanded national program of investment in SASI perimeters. The central
objective of this program is to establish a systematic approach to the
development of this neglected sub-sector.   The premise of this objective as
discussed in Chapter II is that Morocco has a major potential for increasing
agricultural diversification, yields, production, and income on lands that
could   aggregate   to   several   hundred   thousand   hectares   through   the
rehabilitation of degraded SMSI systems and the creation of new ones.   This
potential is distributed widely through the country (see Map No. IBRD 16646)
and could help meet future food deficits in many populous urban areas as well



- 16 -
as improve the standard of living of a substantial number of small subsistence
farmers, many of whom fall within the limits of rural absolute poverty (US$238
income per capita in 1981).  The systematic approach involves the creation of
a viable legal framework, the development of workable arrangements for farmer
responsibility for operation and maintenance of networks and cost recovery,
and the building up of SMSI experience in MARA's regional directorates.   The
project  aims  to  establish  this  approach  through  the  development  of  five
specific SMSI perimeters and the preparation of a second-stage project.
4.02     The components of the project are:
(a)  rehabilitation  of  three  traditional  perimeters  (Souss--9,650  ha,
Chichaoua--l,900 ha, and Ghiss--920 ha);
(b)  construction of two new perimeters (Middle Sebou--4,870 ha and Jemaa
Sahim--410 ha);
(c)  support  services  and  technical  assistance  for  the  Ministry  of
Agriculture's regional directorates in charge of these perimeters,
for its Central Management Unit (CMU), and for the preparation of a
second-stage SMSI project;
(d)  on-farm investments  financed by credit and technical assistance in
the project perimeters.
B. Detailed Features
(i) Irrigation Infrastructure
4.03     Souss.   The  existing  badly  deteriorated  irrigation  network  of
traditional main earth channels ("seguias") fed by gravity from now largely
dried up stream resurgences in 12 sub-perimeters totaling 9,650 ha would be
replaced by about 125 km of new semi-circular pre-stressed concrete primary
and  secondary  flume  canals  (canalettes)  following  the  same  layout  as  the
existing seguias.   The existing concrete-lined canals would be rehabilitated
largely through relining.  The system of canals would be served by 13 wells
and by about 60 tubewells which would be sunk to depths averaging 50-70 m in
sets  corresponding  to  the  seguias.   Twenty-five  pumping  stations  totaling
about 4,000 kW would be constructed to provide for rates of flow ranging from
40 to 100 l/s  for tubewells and from 20 to 85  1/s  for wells.   The  total
dynamic head would be 35-85 m for tubewells and  20-40 m  for wells.   Each
pumping station would be equipped with a regulating tank, a transformer and
related electro-mechanical equipment.   About 53 km of power supply lines and
related equipment would be  installed.   About  60 km of existing  unsurfaced
roads along the main seguias would be levelled and widened to 4 m, and
necessary road protection works would be constructed.
4.04     Chichaoua.  About 57 km of deteriorated primary and secondary seguias
and concrete canals would be lined in concrete or rehabilitated in this
spring-fed  traditional  gravity  perimeter  of  1,900  ha.   Two  syphons  of  a
combined length of 450 m would be built to carry irrigation water under the
Bou Enfir and  Chichaoua  stream beds.   They would  replace  a syphon and an
aqueduct destroyed in recent  floods.   A drainage network to evacuate flood
waters and erosion control works to protect exposed banks of the stream would
be  constructed.    About  56  km  of  existing  unsurfaced  roads  would  be
rehabilitated.



- 17 -
4.05     Chiss.  About 52 km of canalettes or concrete-lined canals would be
constructed to replace deteriorated primary, secondary, and tertiary concrete
canals on about 780 ha and to extend the area of this river-fed traditional
gravity perimeter by about 140 ha to a total of 920 ha.  A new diversion weir
upstream on the Ghiss River and a concrete-lined conveyance canal of 4 km
linking the weir to the perimeter would be constructed. The sub-project would
also include subsurface drainage on about 400 ha of heavy soils close to the
Mediterranean  shore.   A  collector  would  be  built  to  divert  to  the
Mediterranean excess rainwater from the perimeter and from neighboring steep
slopes as well as drainage water.   Flood-protection dikes along the Ghiss
River and an interconnector canal of about 6 km to divert excess water from
the Ghiss River to the existing and larger Nekcr River irrigation perimeter
would also be constructed.
4.06     Middle Sebou.  Five first-stage and six second-stage pumping stations
totalling about 2,500 kW would be constructed to lift water from the Sebou
River and provide an aggregate rate of flow of about 6,000 l/s to the 28
sub-perimeters of this new gravity perimeter of 4,870 ha.  The total dynamic
head would be 10-50 m.  Thirteen regulating reservoirs would be provided.
About 80 km of power supply lines and related equipment would be installed.
About 190 km of elevated concrete canals and 525 km of drainage works would be
constructed.   Limited  land  leveling would be carried out  in most  of  the
sub-perimeters.   Land holdings  would be  consolidated.   An  interceptor  and
collection system would be constructed to divert run-off water into the Sebou
River from the slopes neighboring the sub-perimeters. About 300 km of dirt or
gravelled roads would be built or improved, of which about 267 km would be
unsurfaced farm roads of 4-6 m right-of-way, 21 km unsurfaced primary channel
service roads of 6-10 m right-of-way, and 10 km gravelled roads of 10-12 m
right-of-way connecting the pumping stations to the national network.  About
32 km of new third class asphalt roads would be constructed to accommodate the
heavy traffic associated with the marketing of farm produce.
4.07     Jemaa Sahim.   A pumping station of 250 kW and  rated capacity of
400 l/s, together with related reservoir and electrical equipment, would be
installed  to  transfer  water  from  the  existing  Safi  canal  to  this  new
sprinkler-irrigation perimeter of 410 ha.  The total dynamic head would be
45 m.   About  3 km of power supply  lines  and  related  equipment  would  be
installed.   About  14  km  of  underground  pipes  would  be  laid  for  the
distribution of water within a system of land consolidation.  Mobile sprinkler
equipment with a unit capacity of 6 mm/hr over an area of 18 m x 18 m would be
provided.  A system of ditches would be constructed to provide drainage into
two natural depressions within the sub-project are!a.
(ii) Support Activities
4.08     Support  activities  would  be  designed  to  provide  the  additional
buildings, equipment, vehicles, and technical assistance needed by the
concerned Provincial Directorates of Agriculture (DPA's), the Regional Office
for Agricultural Development for Souss-Massa (ORMVASM), and the Central
Management Unit (CMU) to permit satisfactory construction of the irrigation
systems and introduction of the on-farm investments, cropping patterns, and
irrigation  techniques  envisaged  under  the  project.   These  activities  are
tabulated in detail for each sub-project in Tables (a)-(b) of Annex 5 and in
the Detailed Cost Estimates of Annex 12.  They are summarized here.   They
would include the construction and equipping of about 142 houses for project



18 -
staff, II livestock dek;elopment centers,  15 livestock breeding stations,  one
artificial insanii.nation center, six milk collection centers, 7 extension work
certers,  and  3  inpit centers.  About  30 bulls  would  be  provided  for  the
breeding   s a L--ons    A   total   of   about   47 four-wheeled   vehicles   and
116 motorcycLes would also be included in the project.
4.09     Tecrhn-ical assistance would consist of 15 m.m. of short-term  experts
and 84 ma,-n  oL' long-terwi experts.  The short-term consultant services would be
to  assist  in  the  procurement  of  electro-mechnical  equipment  for  Souss
(3 m.m.) ,    iddle  Sebou  (3  mm r),  and  Jemaa  Sahim  (2  m.m.);   in  farm
r;mechanizationm to orepare a study on the use of small-scale farm machinery and
equipmeot (3 rf -m.; and in rural engineering to help in the preparation of a
secon,d-stage pronect (4 m.iam).  The long-term consultant services would be in
cLv-iI  enungi-`rng Lsr Iupervision  of certain complex construction works  in
Middle 3ebou (24 mm.) and Ghiss (24 mo i) (para. 5.07), in electro-mechanical
engineering for construction supervision in Souss (12 m.m.) and Middle Sebou
(12 mmn.)'  and in extension to help  organize  programs  in all  sub-projects
(12 finm) I'see also paras. 5.27-5.29),  Detailed terms of reference are given
ci Anne-. 80  Traininig overseas (15 m.m. proposed for five extension trainers)
antd  in ricOo    (extension  agents)  would  also  be  provided.    Remaining
iriDalemenauciCn  studies would also be included.  In addition, the project would
cover initial operating Costs, which would include salaries and allowances of
engineering and technical staff and skilled workers as well as operations,
maintenance, energy for pumping, and fuel for vehicles.
(iii) On-farm Development
4.10     Crop development irnvestments would include animal traction equipment
in all sub-project areas and establishment of about 40 ha of orchards
(Middle Sebou and Chichaoua).  Livestock development investments would consist
of purchase of abmt 190 in-calf heifers and construction of stables for about
220 animnals (i.e. for a portion of the project cattle in Souss, Middle Sebou,
Ghiss and Jemrlaa Salir as wel1 as for a substantial number of poorly housed
exiscing arniml-s in Souss),   Incremental short-term inputs would be financed
by CNCA's branctes il all out-project areas.
Status of ngne  ring Design and Schedule of Implementation
4 11 Ia o   Infrastructure and Related Works.   Detailed  designs  for
irrigat_on il -fraseructu-re have been prepared  by consultants  and with minor
exceptions  have  been  completed  for  four  sub-projects  and  for  two-thirds
(6,500 ha) of tne  irrigation network  for Souss.   Detailed designs  for the
reainainng irriganion network (3,160 ha) for Souss will be similar to those
already complatedJ and che studies are expected to be started in early 1983.
Ietailed designs £3r thie Souss pumping stations are expected to be started
onwe 'RMVASM determines, through exploratory tubewells, the nominal discharge
capa.^-it,      acin  stat;cn   Drilling of these exploratory tubewells is
x-o begi- in early 1983.  Detailed designs for Middle Sebou have been
C fi-p L eted a X C a    u  the tn  m in project pumping stations and the roads which
wc)uld be pa-ed under. tl-  sub-project.   These  designs  are  expected  to  be
complet2rd by early 1983.  Studies for land consolidation are expected to be
sta-rted  in iid - 183   All detailed  designs  for Ghiss have been completed.
However, those for the inta'7e weir, head reach channel, and flood protection
works are being re_vised tDv the consultants responsible for the preparation of



- 19 -
the final implementation studies.  All detailed designs for Jemaa Sahim have
been  completed,  studies  are  underway  for  land  consolidation  and  project
implementation,  and tender documents are  in preparation.   Detailed designs,
implementation studies, and tender documents have been completed for
Chichaoua. However, slight revisions may be needed if adjustments are made in
the allocation of water among farms located downstream of the Tajoujet canal
(para. 5.24).
4.12     Houses, offices, and other buildings included in the project would be
simple structures practically identical to others which have been built by
MARA throughout the country and for which standard designs and tender
documents exist.   Final designs would be prepared by the executing agencies
assisted by the CMU.
4.13     Schedule of Implementation.  The project would be implemented over a
five-year period (mid-1983 to mid-1988) in accordance with the schedule of
expenditures  shown  in Annex  12.   During  the  first  year  of  the  project,
preparation  of all  remaining  detailed  studies  and  bid documents  would  be
completed,  bidding  for  all  project  items  started,   and  contracts  for
construction  of  support   buildings   and  purchase  of  vehicles   awarded.
Construction of civil works and purchase of equipment for the irrigation
network would start during the second year.  Operation of irrigation networks
would start in the third year of the project in Jemaa Sahim, in the fourth
year in Souss, Ghiss, and Chichaoua, and in the fifth year in Middle Sebou.
D. Cost Estimates
4.14     Total project costs, including establishment costs, taxes, duties and
contingencies are estimated at DH 572.4 million (US$101.3 million), of which
42% or US$42.1 million are foreign exchange.  Duties and taxes are estimated
at DH 155.3 million (US$27.5 million), which is equivalent to 27% of total
project costs.  Cost estimates are based on prices obtained during appraisal
in June 1982, adjusted to end-of-1982 prices. Costs for civil works are based
on actual unit costs applied in contracts in the different project regions.
Equipment prices are based on the latest invoices available (June 1982).
Physical contingencies included in the cost estimates are 15% for civil works
and 10% for equipment and studies.   Total physical contingencies  amount to
DH 53.0 million (US$9.4 million).   Price escalation has been estimated  for
local costs at 11% in 1983,  9% in 1984, and 8% thereafter and for foreign
costs at 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985 and 6% thereafter. The cost of
consulting services, including support services, has been estimated at
US$10,500 per month for short-term consultants and US$8,700 for long-term
consultants.    Overall  contingencies  would  atrount  to  DH  185.6  million
(US$32.8 million),  or  32.0%  of total  costs  and 48%  of  base  costs.   Cost
estimates, including establishment costs, are summarized in the following
table and shown in more detail in Annexes 4 and 12:



- 20 -
Cost Estimates /a
Total
-- DH million ---    ---- USS million ---            as Z of   Foreign
Sub-projects         Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Base Cost  Exchange
Souss
Irrigation Infastructure /b    66.8    52.2   119.0    11.9           9.2    21.1       31         44
Support Costs /b                  19.4    12.6    32.0       3.4      2.2      5.6        8        38
On-farm Investments /b             1.7      1.1     2.8      0.3      0.2      0.5        1         38
Sub-total                    87.9    65.9   153.8    15.6    11.6    27.2           40         43
Middle Sebou
Irrigation Infrastructure         84.1    64.7   148.8    14.8    11.5    26.3           38        43
Support Costs                      9.6      8.0    17.6      1.8      1.3      3.1        5        43
On-farm Investments                0.7     0.3      1.0      0.15    0.05    0.2          -         28
Sub-total                    94.4    73.0   167.4    16.7    12.9    29.6           43         44
Ghiss
Irrigation Infrastructure         13.9     9.6    23.5       2.5      1.7      4.2        6        41
Support Costs                      2.8      1.3     4.1      0.4      0.3      0.7        1         22
On-farm Investments                0.3      0.1     0.4      0.05    0.02    0.07         -         32
Sub-total                    17.0    11.0    28.0        3.0      2.0     5.0        7         39
Chichaoua
Irrigation Infrastructure          8.1     5.0    13.1       1.4      0.9      2.3        3        40
Support Costs                      3.4     0.6      4.0      0.6      0.1      0.7        1         15  -
On-farm Investments                0.5     0.4      0.9      0.1      0.1      0.2        -         45
Sub-total                    12.0      6.0    18.0       2.1      1.1     3.2        5         33
Jemaa Sahim
Irrigation Infrastructure         4.6      4.7      9.3      0.9      0.8      1.7        3         50
Support Costs                      2.5      1.2     3.7      0.4      0.2      0.6        1         35
On-farm Investments                0.3      0.2     0.5      0.06    0.04    0.01         -         28
Sub-total                     7.4      6.1    13.5       1.3      1.1     2.4        4         45
Central Management Unit            2.6      3.5     6.1      0.5      0.6      1.1        1         56
Total Baseline Costs        221.3   165.5   386.8    39.2    29.3    68.5          100         42
Physical Contingencies            30.2    22.9    53.1       5.3      4.1      9.4       14        45
Price Contingencies               83.1    49.4   132.5    14.7        8.7    23.4        34         38
Total Project Costs         334.6   237.8   572.4    59.2    42.1   101.3          148         42
/a  Discrepancies in addition are due to rounding.
/b  Depending on the perimeter, irrigation infrastructure includes civil works,
equipment (including initial mobile sprinkler equipment) and studies for
irrigation, drainage, road and power networks;
support costs include all buildings, vehicles, technical assistance,
training, and start-up costs plus equipment for non-irrigation 0 & M;
onr-farm investments include pure bred animals, stables, animal-traction and
small-scale agricultural equipment, orchard development, and incremental
inputs.
(1539E p. 8)



- 21 -
E. Financing
4.15     The proposed Bank loan of US$42.0 million equivalent would be made to
the Government of Morocco and would finance the estimated foreign exchange
cost of the project, except for on-farm investments and incremental inputs.
These items would be financed by the benefitting farmers and by credit from
CNCA, which would be extended under CNCA's current lending policies and
procedures, with credit-worthiness linked to expected income along the lines
of the farm models (paras. 5.32 and 7.02).  The Government would ensure that
CNCA provides the credit needed under the project (estimated at US$1.0 million
equivalent).   Assurances  to this effect  were obtained  during  negotiations.
The loan would also include a Bank front-end fee of about US$313,000.   The
Bank loan would amount to about 57% of total project costs net of taxes.  The
following table shows the sources of financing for the main categories of
project costs.
Financing Sources
Project Components               IBRD  Government  CNCA  Beneficiaries  Total
----------------- (US$ million) ------------
Irrigation Infrastructure            35.3      47.9       -                     83.2
Support Costs                         5.6       7.9       -          1.5        15.0
On-farm Investments                   -         -         1.0        0.7          1.7
Central Management Unit               0.8       0.6       -         -             1.4
Total Project Costs              41.7      56.4       1.0       2.2        101.3
Front-end fee on Bank Loan            0.3       -         -          -            0.3
Total Financing Required         42.0      56.4       1.0       2.2        101.6
4.16     The  Government  would  allocate  the  proceeds  of  the  loan  and  the
Government's own financing for the project to t:he executing agencies through
their respective annual budgets, as follows:
US$ million
Executing Agency                  Equivalent        Project Component
Directorate of Rural Equipment (DER)            1.4      Central Management Unit
DPA of Al HoceYma                               7.0      Chiss Sub-project
DPA of Fes                                     43.2      Middle Sebou Sub-project
DPA of Marrakech                                4.2      Chichaoua Sub-project
DPA of Safi                                     3.1      Jemaa Sahim Sub-project
ORMVASM of Agadir                              39.2      Souss Sub-project
Total
(excludes financing
by CNCA and beneficiaries)               98.1



- 22 -
F. Procurement
4.17     Civil Works.   Contracts  for  civil works,  including  works  for the
irrigation and road networks, power supply and buildings,  of US$1.5 million
equivalent or more each, and valued at a total of about US$58 million, would
be awarded under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, in
accordance   with   Bank   guidelines.    Contracts   for   civil   works   below
US$1.5 million each and valued at a total of about US$23 million, would be
awarded through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures, which have been
reviewed and found satisfactory to the Bank and which afford foreign bidders
the opportunity to participate.  These arrangements reflect the experience in
completed and on-going Bank-financed projects in Morocco that only very large
contracts for civil works attract foreign contractors based outside Morocco,
due to the competitiveness of local and foreign contractors established in
Morocco and the high mobilization costs for foreign contractors established
outside Morocco.
4.18     Goods.   Contracts  for  the  purchase  of  all  project  vehicles  and
equipment,  except  for  hydraulic  water-control  equipment  (para.  4.19),  of
US$200,000 equivalent or more each, and valued at a total of US$6.7 million,
would be awarded under ICB,  in accordance with Bank guidelines.   Qualifying
domestic manufacturers of equipment and vehicles would receive preference in
bid evaluation of 15% or the prevailing import duty, whichever is less.
Contracts for vehicles and for equipment of less than US$200,000 equivalent
each, and aggregating no more than US$800,000 and US$300,000, respectively,
could be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures.
4.19     Specialized hydraulic equipment valued at about US$2.0 million would
be purchased from the representatives in Morocco of NEYRTEC S.A., France, the
sole manufacturer of this equipment.  The same equipment is in use in existing
irrigated perimeters  in Morocco and is performing satisfactorily.   No other
similar equipment exists at present on the world market.
4.20     Procurement   of  miscellaneous   supplies   costing   less   than   the
equivalent of US$10,000 and aggregating no more than US$200,000 and
procurement of selected breeding animals valued at US$100,000 in aggregate
would be made in small lots on the basis of local shopping (at least three
quotations).   The purchases  of breeding animals would be phased over  four
years.
4.21     Bank Review of Bid Documents  and Contracts.   All bid packages and
awards for contracts estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or more for civil
works and US$200,000 equivalent or more for goods and all contracts for
specialized hydro-mechanical (NEYRTEC S.A.) equipment would be subject to
prior review by the Bank.  This would represent prior review by the Bank of
about  85%  of  total  contract  values.   In  addition,  the  first  three  bid
documents issued by ORMVASM and by each DPA, regardless of their estimated
value, and the resulting contract awards would be reviewed by the Bank.
4.22     Annex 3 lists for each sub-project the contracts to be awarded, the
methods of procurement, the authorities responsible for their processing and
the type of supplier expected.  Contracts for civil works and goods would be
grouped to the extent practical into large bid packages as indicated in the
Annex.



- 23 -
4.23     Under present Moroccan procedures, bid evaluation and final contract
award would be subject to final approval by the corresponding Regional
Commitment and Expense Controllers for the DPAs and a Central Financial
Controller for ORMVASM and would be referred to the Minister of Agriculture
through his central directorates in the following cases: (i) if the amount of
works or goods exceeds DH 500,000; (ii) if the amount of studies exceeds
DH 100,000; and (iii) if contracts are negotiated.
4.24     Consultant  Services.   Contracts  with  individual  consultants  for
99 man-months of technical assistance with a tc,tal value of US$1.1 million
would be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for use of
consultants.
G. Disbursements
4.25     The proposed Bank loan of US$42.0 million is expected to be disbursed
over a period of 6 1/2 years.  The average historical disbursement period for
loans to Morocco  is 8 1/2 years with wide variations.   The four completed
irrigation projects in Morocco were disbursed on average in seven years.
Since the two main sub-project implementing agencies have experience with Bank
procedures (para. 5.01) and the critical designs are either completed or at an
advanced stage of preparation, delays in project implementation and loan
disbursement  are  expected  to  be kept  to  a minimum.   The  loan  would  be
disbursed as follows:
Amount               Percentage
(US$ million          of Expenditures
Category                equivalent)            to be Financed
1.  Civil works except for              26.0          40% of total expenditures
power supply
2. Equipment (other than for
power supply), vehicles,         5.6          100% of foreign expendi-
and selected animals                              tures and 60% of
local expenditures
3.  Civil works and equipment                          100% of foreign expendi-
for power supply                                  tures and 60% of
a. ONE /1                       2.8            local expenditures
b. MARA                         1.4
4.  Consultants' services                 1.2          100% of total
and training                                      expenditures
5.  Front-end fee                        0.3          Amount due
6.  Unallocated                          4.7
42.0
/1 National Electricity Office.



- 24 -
4.26     Disbursements for the above items would be made after receipt of full
documentation.   No  disbursement  would  be  made  for  on-farm  investments,
incremental working capital or operating costs.  Retroactive financing of up
to US$1,000,000 under Category 1 is proposed for costs incurred since July 1,
1982 for the start up of the tubewell exploratory works and the land-use
survey  through  landsat  imagery  at  Souss.    The  detailed   schedule  of
disbursements is given in Annex 6 and summarized below:
US$ million
Disbursements            FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Annual                               2.8    3.9    9.4   11.4    8.6    5.9
Cumulative                           2.8    6.7   16.1   27.5   36.1   42.0
H. Accounts and Audit
4.27     The existing system of financial control and audit of governmental
bodies  is satisfactory.   Although ministries  and other public  institutions
have a substantial degree of autonomy in the physical implementation of their
program, the Ministry of Finance tightly controls their financial commitments,
transactions  and accounts.   Two officials  of  the Ministry  of Finance  are
responsible for overseeing on a day-to-day basis the financial operations
undertaken by a particular governmental department.  The Financial Controller
reviews all proposed contracts and must countersign them before they take
effect. A treasury officer keeps records of all financial transactions after
checking them against predetermined programs and financial allocations, and
approves corresponding disbursements.  The Financial Controller and Treasury
Officer prepare monthly reports to be transmitted to the Central Services of
the Ministry of Finance.   They also prepare year-end  statements which are
transmitted, after review and approval, through the Minister of Finance to the
Cour des Comptes.  All government bodies are subjected to random inspections
by the Service of General Inspection of the Ministry of Finance.   Control of
expenditures and of their conformity to predetermined programs is thereby
adequate. However, physical checks on actual implementation of works and on
the supply of goods or services is seldom undertaken, either by the inspection
services of the technical ministry concerned or by the services of the
Ministry of Finance.
4.28     Assurances  were  obtained  at  negotiations  that  (i)  the  annual
budgetary resources provided to the implementing agencies for carrying out
each sub-project would be separately identified in the annual budget law and
the Government would furnish copies of these annual budgets to the Bank; (ii)
that each implementating agency would maintain separate accounts for the works
in each sub-project; (iii) that these accounts, as established and certified
by the Regional Financial Controller and Treasury Officer, would be audited
and physical implementation of the project verified by the Ministry of



- 25 -
Finance; and (iv) that an overall audit report for the Project would be
prepared by the Ministry of Finance and would be submitted to the Bank, along
with the year-end certified summary accounts  of all  implementing agencies,
within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year.
I. Environmental Effe!ct
4.29     All  the  sub-project  areas  are  free  of  serious  environmental  and
health hazards such as bilharzia and malaria. The project would not adversely
affect the environment and would improve it by (i) protecting population, land
and crops from floods in Ghiss; (ii) intercepting damaging surface run-off
water through appropriate drainage systems in all the sub-project areas except
in Souss where such run-off normally is of limited scope and intercepted by
farmers for irrigation; and (iii) providing an improved water supply through
the irrigation system to the villages of the Jemaa Sahim perimeter, thus
reducing the disease risk in this area.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTAT'ION
A. Organization and Management of Construction
5.01     Agencies  Responsible  for  Implementation.   The  project  would  be
implemented under the general authority of the Directorate of Rural Equipment
(DER) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA). The Director
of DER would serve as project director.  The Regional Office of Agricultural
Development for Souss-Massa (ORMVASM) in Agadir, which was the implementing
agency for the completed FY75 Souss Groundwater Project (Ln 1123-MOR), would
be  responsible  for  the  Souss  sub-project.   The  Provincial  Directorate  of
Agriculture   (DPA)   of  Fes,   which   is  carrying  out  the  FY78  Rainfed
Fes-Karia-Tissa Agriculture Project (Ln 1602-MOF), would implement the Middle
Sebou sub-project.  These two experienced implementing agencies would thus be
in charge of sub-projects that account for 81% cf the project area and 83% of
project baseline costs.  The DPAs of Al HoceYma., Marrakech, and Safi would be
responsible,   respectively,   for  the  Ghiss,   Chichaoua,   and  Jemaa  Sahim
sub-projects. The DPA's and ORMVASM are responsible to DER for all activities
concerning irrigation infrastructure, including procurement, and to MARA's
other functional directorates for on-farm development activities in crops,
livestock, and extension.
5.02     Several components of the project wouLd be implemented by agencies
other than MARA.  The National Electricity Office (ONE), under agreement with
ORMVASM  and  the  DPA's  concerned,   would  be  responsible  for  designing,
contracting, and supervising the construction of power lines and installation
of related electrical equipment for Souss, Middle Sebou, and Jemaa Sahim. The
Regional Highways Directorate for Fes of the Ministry of Equipment would
manage  the construction of 32 km of  asphalt  roads  in Middle  Sebou.   The
National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) would provide credit for financing
on-farm investments and incremental inputs in alL sub-projects.
5.03     Project  Coordination  Committee.   Overall  coordination  of  project
implementation and institutional development (paras. 5.13-5.26) would be
provided by a Project Coordination Committee, which has proved to be a useful
mechanism in other agriculture projects in Morocco.  The committee, which has
recently been formally constituted under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, is under the chairmanship of the Director of DER and includes the



- 26 -
Directors (or their representatives) of Crop Production, of Livestock
Development, of Extension and Agrarian Reform, and of Planning and Economic
Affairs of MARA, of Water Resources and of Highways of the Ministry of
Equipment, and of Rural Affairs of the Ministry of the Interior, and
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, ONE and CNCA. The committee would
meet as necessary to resolve problems not settled at the regional level and at
least once every six months to review work programs and progress.
Coordination among implementing agencies in the sub-project regions would be
reinforced by the existing Technical Committee of ORMVASM under the
chairmanship of the Governor of the province and by new Regional Sub-project
Coordination Committees for the other sub-projects under the chairmanship of
the Director of the DPA and including representatives of the other agencies
and the Ministry of the Interior.  The new Regional Sub-project Coordination
Committees have also recently been formally constituted under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.   The regional committees would meet at
least once every three months.
5.04     Central Management Unit (CMU).  Day-to-day monitoring,  coordination,
and reporting of project activity as well as evaluation of project
implementation, agricultural production, and cost recovery would be provided
by the Central Management Unit (CMU) which has been established within DER's
division  of  rural  development  with  staffing   and  terms   of  reference
satisfactory to the Bank.  The CMU would provide assistance to the concerned
DPAs and ORMVASM, as necessary, in procurement and other aspects of project
implementation  (para.  5.05).   The  CMU  would  also  be  responsible  for  the
preparation and submission to the Project Director, the Project Coordination
Committee,  and the Bank of a quarterly report  on project  progress.   This
report would consist of individual subproject reports prepared by ORMVASM and
the DPAs and an overall assessment prepared by the CMU of progress, problems,
the remaining implementation schedule, and, as necessary, recommendations for
corrective measures.   During negotiations assurances were obtained that the
CMU would be maintained in operation until project completion. Apart from the
role of the CMU, the existing Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of MARA's
Directorate of Planning and Economic Affairs would be responsible for
implementing an economic and social baseline survey of the subproject areas
and for monitoring and evaluating project benefits. DER's Service for General
Studies would be responsible for carrying out the study for the preparation of
a second-stage SMSI project. Assurances on these matters were obtained during
negotiations.
5.05     Management  of  Irrigation  Infrastructure  and  Support  Investments.
Day-to-day  implementation  of  irrigation  infrastructure  and  most  support
investments,   including  remaining   engineering  studies,   contracting,   and
supervision of works, would be the responsibility of the construction
divisions of ORMVASM and the DPAs of Al HoceYma, Marrakech, Safi, and Fes.
Except as discussed in para. 5.06, the present staffing of these units is
judged to be satisfactory. The ORMVASM and Al Hoceima construction divisions
have previous experience managing both studies and execution of irrigation
projects (the 6,000 ha Souss Groundwater project and the 4,800 ha SMSI project
of Nekor respectively).
5.06     To support the construction divisions of the Fes and Marrakech DPAs,
construction field offices would be built in the project areas of Middle Sebou
and Chichaoua.   The construction division of ORMVASM would be reinforced by
the assignment of additional engineering and technical staff to the ORMVASM
Sub-division Office at Taroudant near the center of the project area.  In the
case of Chichaoua where a less experienced staff would manage a moderately



- 27 -
large perimeter (1,900 ha) located 80 km from the Marrakech DPA office,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Chichaoua construction
field office would be built and would be provided with technical staff
reinforcement on a basis and timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
5.07     In  addition,  72  m.m.  of  long-term  consultant  services  would  be
provided for supervision of construction works: 12 m.m. in Souss and 12 m.m.
in  Middle  Sebou  in  electro-mechanical  engineering  to  assist   in  pump
installation.  These consultants would be recruited as necessary to be on site
when required; and 24 m.m. in Ghiss and 24 m.mn. in Middle Sebou in civil
engineering to assist in construction of weirs irn the former and headworks in
the  latter.   These  consultants  would  be  recruited prior  to  the  start  of
construction of these structures. Short-term consultant services amounting to
8 m.m. in the bidding, evaluation, and award of electro-mechanical contracts
would be divided among Souss (3 m.m.), Middle Sebou (3 m.m.), and Jemaa Sahim
(2 m.m.).  Despite the greater experience of ORMVASM and the DPAs of Fes and
Al HoceYma, consultant services are included in view of the complexity of the
works  involved  in these  sub-projects.   During  negotiations  assurances  were
obtained that the consultants to be selected for these tasks as well as those
described below in para. 5.27 would be acceptable to the Bank and would be
employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.   It is expected
that the Safi DPA would obtain technical advice regarding the small Jemaa
Sahim perimeter as needed from time to time from the experienced staff of the
nearby Doukkala Regional Agricultural Development Office.
B. Management of the Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation Systems
5.08     The  central  approach  of  the  Governnment  to  the  operation  and
maintenance  of  irrigation  systems  under  the  project  is  to  entrust  this
function to the maximum extent possible to the water users of each perimeter.
As discussed  in paras.  5.19-5.23  below,  water  users'  organizations  called
"Associations of Agricultural Development (ADAs)" would be formed as a primary
institutional objective of the project.  These associations would, under the
terms of legally binding statutes deposited wit.h the local authorities and
contracts  entered  into with MARA,  undertake  increasing  responsibility  for
managing and financing the operation and maintenance of irrigation works in
their perimeter or sub-perimeter.
5.09     Traditional Perimeters.   In the rehabilitated traditional perimeters
(Souss, Ghiss, and Chichaoua), where cooperation among water-users has existed
for generations, the associations would be expected to assume responsibility
for managing and financing all aspects of 0 & M from the moment of start-up of
irrigation,  with  the  exception  of  the  pumping  stations  of  the  Souss
sub-project.   For  these  pumping  stations,  it  is  envisaged  that  ORMVASM's
existing irrigation operations division would be in charge of 0 & M for an
interim period of about three years.  During this period, the division would
organize and carry out a program to train as operators of the pumping stations
about 60 local technicians who would then be hired by the association
concerned with each pumping station to take over this responsibility.   This
training   would   be   arranged   with   the   assistance   of   the   long-term
electro-mechanical consultant (para. 5.07).  At the end of the interim period,
the associations would also assume responsibility for maintenance of pumping
stations, and would manage this function by contract with a qualified private
firm in the region.  In the Souss sub-project area,  17 de facto associations
representing all the water users in the perimeter were created during 1982
with the assistance of ORMVASM.   Formation of the envisaged associations in
the Ghiss and Chichaoua perimeters is expected by early 1983 (paras.
5.19-5.23).



- 28 -
5.10     New Perimeters.  In the new perimeter of Middle Sebou, which has no
tradition of water-user cooperation, and which the Government intends to bring
under the provisions of the Agricultural Investment Code (para. 5.13),
water-users' associations would initially be expected to take responsibility
for 0 & M only in the quaternary irrigation channels under contract with the
Fes DPA.  0 & M for the primary, secondary, and tertiary channels as well as
for the pumping stations would be managed by the DPA which would create an
irrigation  operations  division  for  the  purpose.    As  provided  by  the
Agricultural Investment Code (Code), the water users would be charged for the
0 & M costs  incurred by the DPA (paras.  7.04-7.10).   Following an interim
period, a gradual transfer of additional responsibility for 0 & M to the
associations along the lines described for Souss (para. 5.09) is envisaged.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that the irrigation operations
division of the Fes DPA would be created by December 31, 1985, in keeping with
expected start-up of irrigation during 1986.
5.11     The Government has decided not to bring the new but small Jemaa Sahim
perimeter under the provisions of the Agricultural Investment Code. Rather it
would become a "hybrid" perimeter involving the land consolidation introduced
in modern perimeters, but with 0 & M of the irrigation system carried out by
one or more water users' associations to be formed on a de facto basis after
the land consolidation plan has been completed and no later than June 30,
1985.  Assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.  The DPA of
Safi would, however, retain responsibility for the pumping station for an
interim period as in the case of Souss and Middle Sebou.
C. Preparatory Legal and Administrative Actions
5.12     Introduction.  A number of legislative and administrative actions are
necessary or desirable preparatory steps for the implementation and the
operation and maintenance of the various perimeters included in the project.
5.13     These  preparatory  actions   involve  (i)  delimitation  of  a  new
perimeter, (ii) transfer of certain Government lands to private farmers, (iii)
revision of the cost recovery provision of the existing 1969 Agricultural
Investment Code, (iv) revision of the 1924 law governing the formation of
water users' associations, (v) actual formation of water users' associations
in the sub-project areas, (vi) regularization of water rights and water use in
the  Chichaoua  sub-project   perimeter,   (vii)   approval   of  formulae   for
determining the level of cost recovery in traditional sub-project perimeters,
and (viii) implementation of an action program for control of private pumping
in the Souss Valley aquifer. These actions are described below.
5.14     Delimitation of a New Perimeter.   In implementing new large  scale
irrigation projects it has been the Government's policy to promote more
efficient utilization of irrigated land by consolidating fragmented holdings
into a regular grid and integrating the irrigation network and cropping
patterns with the consolidated holdings  (Annex 11).  The authority for this
policy is provided by the Agricultural Investment Code, and decisions in
particular cases are made by a decree of delimitation of the irrigation
perimeter approved by the Prime Minister on the recommendation of the Minister
of Agriculture and with the concurrence of the Ministers of Interior and
Finance.  Under the decree of delimitation, the DER through the ORMVA or DPA
concerned implements the land consolidation and the construction of the
irrigation works, and the latter are also responsible for 0 & M and cost



- 29 -
recovery.  In order to ensure the legal status necessary for implementations
operation, maintenance, and cost recovery in the Middle Sebou sub-project
under the provisions of the Code, a draft decree of delimitation for this new
perimeter has been approved by the Minister of Agriculture.   Concurrence by
the Ministers of Interior and Finance and final approval of the decree by the
Prime Minister are expected to be given promptly.
5.15     Confirmation and Establishment of Private Ownership of Certain lands.
The Middle Sebou sub-project area contains an estimated 2,200 ha of lands
whose ownership by the Government, individual farmers, or collective tribal
groups of farmers could not be clarified during appraisal. These lands are of
two types. "Guich" lands, which were Government--owned lands made available in
centuries past for the collective use of groups of former soldiers under
usufruct as a reward for service or as a means of ensuring their residence in
a certain location, continue to be worked collectively by the descendents of
the original beneficiaries. In those cases where title to these lands remains
with the Government, "Guich" farmers have litt:le incentive to operate and
maintain irrigation works responsibly and the Government has little influence
on them, as illustrated in a degraded small perimeter constructed on "Guich"
lands near the Middle Sebou sub-project area a number of years ago.  Where the
Government transfers title of "Guich" lands to the collective groups of
farmers cultivating them, the lands become subject to a 1919 law!/ governing
collective   lands,  which   prohibits   their   further   fragmentation.    More
important, delimitation and equipping of such collective land within a modern
irrigation perimeter, together with allotment of the land to private ownership,
is  authorized  under  the  Agricultural  InvestmEnt  Code.   The  Middle  Sebou
perimeter contains an estimated 2,000 ha of "Guich" lands, representing 41% of
the total sub-project area and involving about half of the 28 component
riverbed terraces.  During negotiations the Moroccan delegation furnished to
the Bank a copy of a 1922 law%2 which transferred "Guich" lands in the Fes
region to certain collective groups of farmers.   Subsequently the Government
provided documentary evidence to the Bank that the "Guich" lands of the Middle
Sebou perimeter were covered by the  1922 law.   These circumstances,  taken
together with the proposed delimitation of the Middle Sebou perimeter, are
believed   to  provide   adequate   assurance   oi   satisfactory   agricultural
development and 0 & M of quaternary channels in the "Guich" lands of the
Middle Sebou perimeter.
5.16     The second type of holding -- "terres Habous" -- is land transferred
to or entrusted to the Ministry of Habous by private owners as a gift (public
"Habous" land) or an indefinite consignment (private "Habous" land) designed
to  produce  income  to  support  Islam  and  in  particular  the  construction,
operation, and maintenance of mosques.  Rural "Habous" lands, both public and
private, are normally rented out by the ministry for cultivation by private,
often landless,  farmers.   The Middle Sebou perimeter contains  an estimated
200 ha of "Habous" lands whose status as public or private has not been
ascertained.   During  negotiations  the  Moroccan  delegation  explained  that
insofar as they are private "Habous" lands, they may be consolidated and
equipped for irrigation within a delimited per:imeter under the Agricultural
Investment Code.   In addition,  private "Habous" lands are under law in an
inalienable status and would be rented out for cultivation under the
ministry's continuing policy of renewable five-year leases at market rental
rates. Such a rental arrangement is comparable to private rental arrangements
estimated to involve about 10% of the overall SMSI project area and is
1/ Dahir of April 27, 1919.
2/ Dahir of April 12, 1922.



- 30 -
considered to provide adequate incentive to farmers to undertake agricultural
development and 0 & M of quaternary irrigation channels.   Insofar as public
"Habous"   lands   are   involved,   the  Moroccan   delegation   confirmed   the
Government's   intention  to   transfer   ownership,   under   the  Agricultural
Investment Code, from the Ministry of Habous to the State for distribution,
under the Agrarian Reform Law, to small farmers in time for the start-up of
irrigation (MARA would compensate the Ministry of Habous with replacement
lands of equal value).
5.17     Revision  of  the Agricultural  Investment  Code.   The  cost  recovery
provisions of the existing Agricultural Investment Code, which are applicable
in delimited perimeters, suffer from certain weaknesses, including inadequate
progressivity, lack of a minimum contribution to investment costs, and a
structure which inhibits achievement of the levels of cost recovery legally
provided for (paras.  7.04-7.10).   A satisfactory draft revision of the Code
designed to deal with these problems has been prepared by MARA and comments
made by all the other interested ministries. Formal approval of a final draft
text by the Council  of Ministers  is expected during mid-1983.   Subsequent
approval of the revision by Parliament is also expected without undue delay.
5.18     Revision of the 1924 ASAP Law Regarding Water Users' Associations./'
The Government has concluded that the 1924 ASAP law authorizing the creation
of water users' associations provides most of the necessary technical
framework for the formation of these associations, including obligatory
membership  of  farmers  benefiting  from  the  irrigation  works,  but  requires
updating to take account of institutional changes that have occurred since
independence.   As  with  the  cost  recovery  provisions  of  the  Agricultural
Investment  Code,  a  satisfactory  draft  revision of  the  1924  law has  been
prepared by MARA, comments have been made by all interested ministries, and
approval by the Council of Ministries is expected during mid-1983. Passage by
Parliament  of  this  revision  is not  expected  to be  controversial.   During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government would take all
measures necessary to establish by December 13, 1985 an appropriate legal
framework for the creation and operation of water users' associations.
5.19     Formation  of Water  Users'  Associations.   The  formation  of  water
users' associations is envisaged in two stages, first, early de facto
creation, then, conversion to de jure status once the revision of the 1924
ASAP law has been approved by Parliament. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that ORMVASM and the DPAs concerned would promptly take all measures
necessary to ensure the conformity of the water users' associations to the
requirements  of  the new  legal  framework  referred  to  in para.  5.18.   The
approach of creating de  facto associations  is designed  to demonstrate  the
willingness of farmers to organize themselves and thereby to provide
reasonable assurance before the start of construction of irrigation works that
creation of this institutional framework for operation and maintenance of
those works is well underway and likely to be effectively fulfilled.
5.20     In  Souss.   Since  the  Souss  sub-project  is  the  furthest  advanced
toward implementation, it is providing the model for the others for formation
of water users' associations along the following lines.  The de facto stage,
which was managed by ORMVASM's irrigation operations division, involved the
following already completed steps: (i) organizing all the approximately 3,400
beneficiary farmers into 17 de facto water users' associations based on the
perimeter's hydraulic units which correspond to the main traditional channels
and their branches; (ii) having each association elect a president, financial
1/ ASAP : "Associations syndicales agricoles privilegiees".



- 31 -
officer, and managing committee; (iii) obtaining agreement within each
association on the basis of membership financial contributions (generally
proportional to land holdings); (iv) obtaining members' acceptance of the
proposed design of irrigation works; and (v) depc,siting with the local and
provincial authorities of minutes of the general meeting creating each
association and de facto statutes drawn up by each association. A sixth step
still underway consists of having the associations' elected managing
committees carry out a detailed inventory of water-rights and property
limits. As discussed below in paras. 5.25 and 7.11-7.14, it is believed that
under the cost recovery formulae agreed on for Souss and the other perimeters
not governed by the Agricultural Investment Code, the water users'
associations would be adequately funded to permit them to meet their financial
obligations for water charge payments and for operation and maintenance of
irrigation networks. The draft revision of the 1.924 ASAP Law (para. 5.18)
provides for monitoring by MARA which would ensure proper management of
association finances.
5.21     The de facto statutes are based on the 1.924 ASAP law (para. 5.18),
but provide for one vote per member as envisaged in the proposed revision to
the 1924 law rather than the old weighted voting in proportion to land
holdings.
5.22     The second stage in the formation of water users' associations in
Souss would consist of the legal execution of the statutes by each association
once the revised 1924 ASAP law has been approved by Parliament.
5.23     In Other Traditional and New Perimeters.  It is envisaged that the
formation of water users' associations in the other four sub-project areas
would follow a pattern similar to that of Souss. In view of the absence of
delimitation under the Code in the traditional perimeters of Ghiss and
Chichaoua, the water users' associations would have to accept immediate
responsibility for all 0 & M as in Souss. Their formation prior to the start
of construction is therefore essential. The furrLishing to the Bank of the de
facto statute (signed by the president) of each cf the water users'
associations in these perimeters and of the minutes of the general meeting
creating each association would consequently be a condition of disbursement of
loan funds for works and equipment in the Ghiss and Chichaoua sub-project
areas.
5.24     Water Rights and Use of Water in the Chichaoua Perimeter.  In the
lower Tajoujet seguia of Chichaoua, the upstream farmers have been for some
years diverting and using inefficiently a volume of water for irrigation
substantially in excess of their water rights defined under a decree of 1938.
As a result, the amount of water available downstream for use by private
farmers and members of two agrarian reform cooperatives has been considerably
short of their water rights. The proposed sub-project works are designed to
provide enough water to meet the irrigation needs, under conditions of
improved cropping and more efficient use of water, of all the present Tajoujet
farmers. The adoption of a rational and viable plan, accepted by the affected
associations of water users up-stream and downstream, for the use of the water
of the Chichaoua Tajoujet "seguia" would be an actditional condition of
disbursement of loan funds for works and equipment for this sub-project.
5.25     Criteria for the Level of Investment Cost Recovery in Undelimited
Perimeters. Whereas the Agricultural Investment Code provides specific
formulae for investment cost recovery in delimited perimeters, no such
guidance exists for the rehabilitated traditional perimeters, and none is



- 32 -
currently contemplated in the context of the revision of the 1924 ASAP law.
During negotiations agreement was reached on specific formulae which the
Government undertook to use as the basis for determining the specific charges
which will apply in the four undelimited sub-project perimeters and be
incorporated in contracts to be negotiated by the DPAs and ORMVASM with the
water users' associations (see paras. 7.11 - 7.12).
5.26     Action Program to Implement Decree for Control of Private Pumping in
the  Souss  Aquifer.   Although  a mathematical  model  analysis  of  the  Souss
aquifer prepared by the Government and reviewed by the Bank confirmed the
sub-project's justification from the standpoint of groundwater availability,
these analyses also underlined the enormous and unplanned growth in the past
decade of private pumping in the valley and the need to introduce controls so
as  to  safeguard  the  aquifer  and  existing  investments  in  the  future.   A
Government decree issued September 9, 1981 and providing for prior approval by
ORMVASM of all installations of new pumps exceeding 40 m3/day capacity was a
necessary  step  in  this  direction.   During  negotiations  assurances  were
obtained that the Government would continue to control pumping in the Souss
aquifer in accordance with the 1981 decree and would keep the Bank informed
regarding the effects that this control has on pumping and on the decline of
groundwater levels in the aquifer.  The Moroccan delegation explained that it
was the Government's intention to complete as rapidly as possible the
inventory currently being taken of existing pumping.  The Moroccan delegation
also indicated that the control programs that ORMVASM and the local authorities
of Taroudant and Agadir had initiated under the 1981 decree included or would
include the following elements among others:  a campaign of information about
the aquifer aimed at farmers and encouraging them to suspend installation of
new groundwater pumps during the period of drought; legal registration of all
existing pumps; creation at the headquarters of ORMVASM in Agadir and at its
sub-division offices in the Souss Valley of special units responsible for the
legalization  of  existing  pumps  and  the  authorization  of  new  ones;  and
reinforcement  of  the  functioning  of  field  control  units  responsible  for
enforcing the controls on pumping.
D. Organization, Management,
and Institutional Support of On-Farm Development
5.27     Extension and Technical Assistance.  The agricultural and livestock
development  divisions  of  ORMVASM  and  the  DPAs,  in  association  with  the
CTs,l/  the  CMVs,2/  and  the  livestock  centers,  would  be  responsible  for
developing extension programs to provide  farmers with  the  information  they
need for increased production and to encourage the on-farm investments and
increased use of inputs envisaged under the project (para. 4.10 and Annexes 13
and 14).  Additional CT and livestock center facilities would be constructed
in each of the sub-project areas  (para. 4.08).   These units would maintain
contact  with  the  regional  and  local  offices  of  the  CNCA  to  facilitate
effective integration of extension and credit operations.
5.28          Three specific problems of on-farm development that would also
be addressed centrally by the project are (a) on-farm irrigation practices,
(b) the possible applicability of small-scale farm machinery and equipment,
and  (c)  the  development  of  effective  extension  themes  and  trainers  for
small-scale  irrigated cultivation.   (a) On-farm irrigation practices  in the
traditional perimeters suffer from (i) poor inlet structures, (ii) inadequate
1/ Work Center of a provincial department of agriculture.
2/ Development Center of a regional agricultural development office.



- 33 -
land  leveling and  surface  preparation,  and  (iii)  inappropriate  doses  and
timing of watering, the latter often only partly under the farmer's control.
DER's Service for Irrigation Research would design and implement a program of
technical assistance to the sub-project DPA's and ORMVASM to help improve
on-farm water management in the five sub-project areas, using the Service's
existing  staff  resources.   This  program  would  include  technical  advice,
demonstration, and training on inlet construction, water spreading techniques
and watering  strategy,  including  the  use  of  appropriate  equipment.   (b)
Conventional farm machinery and equipment is available in over-supply in
surrounding rainfed areas but is ill-adapted tc the small cropping units of
irrigated cultivation in the sub-project perimeters except for autumn land
preparation.  On the other hand, experience with small-scale animal-traction,
hand-held, and motor-driven machinery and equipment is limited in the
sub-project areas.  For this reason, the project would include a study on the
potential for greater use of these types of machinery and equipment for such
purposes as input application, irrigation improvement, and cultivation in
small irrigated plots.  The study would be carried out within the framework of
national extension objectives.   (c) In recognition of the special problems
farmers face in practicing small-scale irrigated agriculture for the first
time in a new perimeter or in adapting to new crops and practices in
rehabilitated perimeters, the project would provide for a program to improve
the extension themes and reorient a cadre of agents toward solving these
problems.  This program would help (i) develop a specific extension strategy
and work program for each sub-project area within the general framework of
national extension goals, (ii) define and arrange to meet extension officer
training needs of the project at the National Center for Studies, Research and
Extension,l/ and (iii) arrange overseas trainir,g of five extension trainers
(15 m.m. in total) in small-scale irrigated cultivation.
5.29     DER,  in  consultation  with  MARA's  Directorates  of  Extension  and
Agrarian Reform, and of Crop Production, would employ individual experts, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to help (i) carry out the
equipment study (3 m.m.) and (ii) organize extension themes and training
(12 m.m.).   During negotiations  assurances  were  obtained  that  the various
support activities described in paras. 5.27-5.29 would be carried out by MARA
in time to provide the necessary support to on-farm development beginning with
the initial start-up of irrigation in each subprcject area.
5.30     In order to establish a long-term focus on problems of small scale
irrigated agriculture and to help DER manage the study of small-scale farm
equipment and the development of follow-up appli:ations, MARA's Directorate of
Crop Production would maintain in being its organizational unit for Irrigated
Crop Agronomy.
5.31     Supply of Inputs.  No serious problems are foreseen in the supply of
inputs in the five sub-project areas, which are well-served by regional
outlets of the national distribution networks. The marketing of fertilizer is
controlled   by   a   state   monopoly,   FERTIMA,2/   which   coordinates   the
distribution of fertilizer by eight companies with well-developed networks of
blending, bagging and storage centers and sales outlets in the five
sub-project regions, supplemented by 265 licensed retailers also represented
in the sub-project regions and the temporary distribution activity of MARA
extension and work centers.   Seeds  of high-yielding varieties  of cereals,
pulses, forage crops, potatoes and sugar beets are sold by the National Seed
Marketing Corporation (SONACOS)3/ and would be readily available to the
1/ Centre national d'etudes, recherche et vulgarisation.
2/ Fertilizer Manufacturing Corporation.
3/ Societ4 nationale de commercialisation des semences.



- 34 -
sub-project areas through their network of ten regional centers and 200 sales
outlets located in MARA extension and work centers, also supplemented by an
expanding system of licensed dealers. Vegetable seeds are mainly imported and
marketed by private companies.  Pesticides are privately imported and sold by
dealers and through MARA centers.  This distribution network is satisfactory
in the sub-project regions. Details are presented in Annex 16.
5.32     Agricultural  Credit.   Agricultural  credit  would  be  provided  by
CNCA-'  through  its  regional  banks  (CRCAs),21  which  lend  to  medium  and
small farmers with an annual net fiscal income above DH 3,000, and its local
banks (CLCAs),31 which lend to small farmers whose net fiscal income is
below  DH 3,000.   CNCA's  three  regional  and  four  local  offices  currently
serving the Souss and Middle Sebou areas can satisfactorily handle the credit
workload  projected  for  these  two  major  sub-projects  for  the  foreseeable
future.   The  CRCAs  and  CLCAs  serving  the  smaller  sub-projects  of  Ghiss,
Jemaa-Sahim, and Chichaoua can do so for an initial period of years, but are
likely to need expanded facilities and staffing as farmer participation in
irrigation builds up toward 100%.  Short-term credit for inputs and machinery
service and medium-term credit (4-7 years) for improved livestock, stables,
orchards, and small-scale farm equipment would be provided under CNCA's
current lending policies and procedures (Annex 16). Interest rates range from
6.5% to 10% for short-term credit and from 8.25% to 10% for medium-term
credit.   The required financial participation by the farmer ranges from 19%
for the purchase of pure bred cows to 69% for fourth year plantation
investments.   Incremental  credit  would  be  extended  in  all  sub-projects
beginning in Chichaoua in the second year of project implementation.   Total
incremental credit needs are estimated at DH 4.6 million; DH 2.9 million would
be short-term and DH 1.7 million medium-term (see Annex 16 for details).
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
A. Present and Future Land-Use
6.01     Present land-use overall in the sub-project areas is characterized by
(i) a low average cropping intensity of 86%; (ii) an overwhelming reliance on
annual winter and perennial cropping (76%); (iii) the predominant role of
cereals (48%); (iv) the limited areas devoted to vegetables (5%) and forage
(5%);  and (v)  the relatively high  level of  fallow  (24%).   These  features
reflect in large measure the conditions of summer drought and winter rainfed
agriculture in Middle Sebou, Jemaa Sahim, and much of Souss (79% of the total
project area).  In the two existing perimeters with a permanent water supply
though low rainfall, Chichaoua and Ghiss, the present cropping intensity is
about 135%, of which about 100% is in winter and perennial and 35% in summer.
These greater intensities are possible mainly because conditions permit
farmers to devote relatively more land to maize, vegetables and forage than in
the rainfed areas.
6.02     Under  the  proposed  project  the  patterns  of  land-use  at  full
development would be a reflection of the  following  aims:   (i)  to increase
winter and perennial cropping toward full land utilization (from 76% to 92% on
average)  through  the  supplementation  of  rainfall  by  irrigation;  (ii)  to
substantially expand summer cropping (from 10% to 33% on average) on the basis
1/ Caisse nationale de credit agricole.
2/ Caisse regionale de credit agricole.
3/ Caisse locale de credit agricole.



Comparison of Land-Use, Yields, and Production
Before Project                                              With Project
Area        Yields   Production             Area       Yields   Production  Incremental Production
(ha)   %   (tons/ha)  (000 tons)         (ha)     Z   (tons/ha)  (000 tons)  (000 tons)  (% increased)
Winter Crops
Wheat and Barley          7,420   42       1.05        8.2         4,315    24        2.9          13.1         4.9            60
Grain Legumes:
- Dry                     950    5       0.8         0.7           100      1       1.5          0.2         -0.5          -71
- Green                     -    -        -          -             130      1      13.0 /3        1.7         1.7
Vegetables                  215    1    16.0           3.5         1,070      6      26.0          27.7        24.2           691
Forage                      355    2    21.0 /3        7.5         2,530    14       43.0 /3    108.8         101.3        1,350
Sugar Beets                 -       -       -          -           1,100      6      45.0         49.5         49.5
Sub-total           8,940   50                               9,245    52
Alfalfa (Perennial)             475    3    34.0 /3    16.2            2,220    12       63.0 /3    139.9        123.7           764
Orchards (Perennial)
Olives                    3,365   19       0.4         1.3         3,365    19        2.7           9.3         8.0           615
Citrus                      530    3    16.0           8.3           530      3      22.0         11.4          3.0            36
Other (Stones, Pomes)        130    1        3         0.4            955      5     18.0          17.2        16.8        4,200
Sub-total          4,025   23                                4,850    27
Total, Winter and
Perennial Crops        13,440   76                              16,315    92                                                                               (n
Summer Crops
Maize Grain               1,165    6         0.9       1.0         2,370    13        3.3           7.9         6.9           690
Vegetables                  660    4        17        11.3         1,895    11       28.0          52.6        41.3           365
Forage                      -       -        -         -                      9      40.0 /3       63.0        63.0
Sub-total           1,825   10                               5,840    33
Fallow                       4,310   24                                1,435 /1  8 /1
Total Area Cropped
and Intensity          15,265   86                              22,155   125
Harvest Intensity /2                  89                                        137
Total Project Area           17,750  100                              17,750   100
Other Totals
Cereals                   8,585   48                               6,685    38
Vegetables                  875    5                               2,965    17
Forage                      830    5                               6,325    36
/i Quasi-fallow in Souss which allows needed early planting of summer crops.
/2 Alfalfa is assumed to yield frequent cuts per year and its area is therefore counted
twice in the harvest intensity.
/3 Green matter yields.
Note: Totals may not add because of rounding.
(1539E p.28)



- 36 -
of irrigated cultivation; (iii) to introduce or expand the area devoted to
higher value crops such as sugar beets (0% to 6%) mainly in Middle Sebou,
vegetables (5% to 17%) in all perimeters, and stone and pome fruits (1% to 5%)
in Middle Sebou and Chichaoua; and (iv) to increase the share of the area
planted in fodder crops (5% to 36%) in all perimeters so as to provide the
basis  for  intensive  livestock development.   This  crop  development  program
would result in an overall increase in land-use intensity from 86% to 125%
(137% on a harvest basis assuming frequent alfalfa cuts through the year, and
ranging from 123% in Souss to 175% in Ghiss).  Acreage devoted to wheat and
barley would decline (from 42% to 24%), in part reflecting higher yields per
hectare and the lesser need of small farmers for basic food grain security
given the opportunity for higher and surer income based on water availability,
greater intensity and diversification.  Fallow would be eliminated except in
Souss where 100% winter cropping would conflict with the need for early
planting of high value summer crops.  The project would not affect the area
currently devoted to olive groves (19%) and citrus orchards (3%).  The table
on the preceding   page summarizes overall project land-use,  average yields,
and production before and with the project.  Details by sub-project are given
in tables (c)-(e) of Annex 5 and in Annex 13.
B. Crop Yields and Production
6.03     At  present,  average  yields  in  the  five  sub-project  areas  are
comparatively low (Annex 5, Table (d)) as a result of the inadequate water
supplies and the poor quality of production techniques, including the
inefficient use of the limited amount of water that is available. Without the
project, yields in Souss would not change, but production would continue its
recent gradual decline of about 7% per year which is resulting from the
progressive fall in the watertable under continuously expanding private
exploitation of the Souss Valley aquifer (para. 3.06) and the consequent fall
in area cropped under irrigation. Yields in the other sub-project areas would
probably change little in the absence of the project unless the Government
greatly intensified its extension efforts, which if done effectively could
lead to increases  of 50% or more even in rainfed  agriculture.   Under the
project, with the benefits of extension, modern inputs, and water, major
increases in average yields are projected for all existing crops (3 x for
cereals, 2 x for grain legumes, summer vegetables and alfalfa, 6 x for olives
and other non-citrus fruits, and 50% for summer vegetables and citrus).  The
projected yield levels vary among the perimeters, but the disparities are
expected  to  be  substantially  less  than  before  the  project.   Incremental
production of main crops and livestock is shown in Annex 5, table (e).
C. Livestock Development
6.04     Animal husbandry in the project area is characterized at present by
(i) a nearly 5:1 preponderance of sheep over cattle (35,000 vs 7,000 units)!'
which reflects the largely rainfed nature of cropping as well as farmer access
to extensive grazing land outside the project area; (ii) a substantial herd of
traction animals (9,700 units); (iii) the low proportion of cattle that are
fully improved  (11%)  or partly improved  (17%);  and  (iv)  the generally  low
standards of management (inadequate shelter, nutrition, and health care).
1/ Unit is used to refer to animal units which are defined in Annex 14
and which include the breeding female and fractions of other
categories necessary to support her.  On average there are twice as
many head of livestock of all categories as units.



- 37 -
Livestock Numbers and Production
Before Project         With Project
I. Livestock Numbers (Animal Units)
Cattle
Local Race                              4,960
Partly Improved                         1,1'30                   920
Fully Improved                            810                 110940
Sub-total                          6,950                12,860
Sheep                                       34,555                 25,455
Traction Animals
Donkeys                                 9,71.0                   -
Mules                                     -                    6,695
Horses                                    -                    3,015
Sub-total                         9,71.0                 9,710
Total Herd                       50,675                 48,025
Total Cattle Equivalents/l       15,31.0                20,020
Area of Forage Harvested (ha)                 1,305                 8,545
Ratio of Forage Area
to Cattle Equivalents                     0.09 ha/unit           0.43 ha/unit
II. Livestock Production (000 tons)
Beef meat                                    0.7                    2.4
Sheep meat                                   0.3                    0.7
Milk (in million liters)                      5.3                  37.5
Wool                                          0.04                   0.08
/1  Cattle  unit  equivalents  =  (cattle  units  x  1)  +
(traction animal units x 0.36) + (sheep units x 0.14).
6.05     Under the project the main livestock objectives would be to (i) shift
the sheep/cattle ratio to about 2:1 (25,000 vs 1.3,000 units) in response to
the increased availability of irrigation; (ii) increase the genetic merit of
the cattle population to 93% fully improved animals and 7% partly improved;
(iii) reorient cattle raising from its present focus on meat production to
greater concentration on milk; (iv) greatly increase the use of forage for all
animals (from an average of 0.09 ha to 0.43 ha of forage per cattle unit
equivalent) to be supplemented with crop residues to meet 80 - 85% of their
fodder needs; and (v) upgrade the herd of traction animals from essentially
donkeys to mules on small farms and horses on large farms while keeping total
numbers roughly constant.   The table above summarizes  livestock numbers and
production before and with the project (details in Annex 14).



- 38 -
6.06     Annex  14 describes  in detail  the  on-farm  investments  for  in-calf
heifers and stables as well as the construction, equipping, and staffing of
centers for natural breeding, artificial insemination, livestock extension
(including health), and milk collection which would be included in the project
in support of the objectives described above.   In order to ensure effective
introduction of artificial insemination (Al) into the project area, MARA's
Livestock Directorate, ORMVASM, and the DPAs concerned would prepare within
the framework of the Livestock Directorate's program for genetic improvement
of livestock an action program tailored to each sub-project and designed to
define priorities among cattle breeds; provide for the assignment, training,
and support of inseminators; and ensure the regular procurement, transport,
delivery and storage of semen.  During negotiations assurances were obtained
that such a program would be prepared in time to provide the necessary support
to on-farm development beginning with the initial start-up of irrigation in
each subproject area.
D. Marketing and Prices
6.07     Projections  of  national  demand  and  supply  indicate  a  long-term
continuation   of  Morocco's   current   deficit   in  the  basic   agricultural
commodities  planned  for  production  in  the  project  area.   Therefore  the
projected incremental volumes could be readily absorbed by the domestic
market.  The five widely separated sub-project regions are also food-deficit
areas.   The regional  marketing  systems  are  sufficient  and  can handle  the
increased production of these commodities, in most cases as a small fraction
of  projected  total  regional  sales.   Details  are  given  in  Annex  16  and
summarized in the following paragraphs.
6.08     Incremental cereal production would range from 1% to 6% of projected
additional regional demand.   Cereal surplus to on-farm consumption would be
sold to wholesalers at farm-gate for consumption in nearby urban markets or to
dealers  in the village markets  ("souks").   Total  incremental  production of
project vegetables at full development would represent only 3% of national
production  in  1981.   Incremental  project  vegetables,  mainly  summer  crops,
would be sold locally or in nearby cities,  although some off-season winter
vegetables from Souss would be marketed in Casablanca and Rabat. About 60-70%
of the projected 16,000 tons of incremental production of apples and pears at
full development in Middle Sebou (5% of current national production) would be
sold  from  the  tree  as  top  quality  fruit  to  wholesale  contractors  from
Casablanca and Rabat where excess demand is substantial.   Second grade fruit
would be sold locally where demand is also currently strong.   Several nearby
under-utilized sugar mills with aggregate capacities of 800,000 t in the Lower
Sebou region and 800,000 t in the Doukkala region would purchase the output of
sugar beets from the Middle Sebou and Jemaa Sahim perimeters of 47,000 t and
2,600 t, respectively, under the Government-controlled sugar marketing
system.  Limited incremental olive production in Souss and Chichaoua would be
marketed primarily to artisanal oil mills scattered throughout the producing
zones.
6.09     By 1985 Morocco is projected to experience a national demand for meat
of 475,000 tons and to become a net importer, so that incremental project
production of about 2,150 tons should be easily marketed domestically.
Incremental production in the project regions would range between less than 1%
to 7% of projected regional demand.  Live animals would be sold in the village
"souks" or to middlemen at farm-gate, thence to be resold to local butchers or
to municipal  slaughter-houses  in the  regional  cities.   In the  context  of
rapidly growing national demand for milk, the incremental production in the



- 39 -
year 2000 resulting from the project would constitute 2% of projected national
consumption in 1990. Milk would be transported by local collecting plants to
private and cooperative dairy plants located within 100 km of each sub-project
area and  in most  cases  currently operating well  below capacity.   Delivery
would be made by farmers direct to collection centers existing or to be built
in the sub-project areas.
6.10     The   Government's   official   cereal   marketing   agency   (ONICL)I/
intervenes through the cereal price support system to ensure high producer
prices during the peak production period and directs its purchasing activity
mainly to the surplus producing areas where prices are likely to fall
significantly at harvest time.  In the sub-project regions, which are cereal-
deficit areas, marketing is largely outside the OtNICL channel, and prices of
bread wheat, barley and durum wheat (which is less actively traded) generally
tend to stay above the support price and encourage production.  Although most
vegetable prices show great variation from year to year and among regions, the
profitability of vegetable production geared to local markets is high.   The
current official price paid to sugar beet farmers, although below the border
price,  is  high  enough  to  ensure  production.   Meat  prices  are  currently
comparable in the five sub-project areas and reflect a new equilibrium between
supply and demand as a result of the recovery from the 1981 drought which
temporarily  depressed  prices.   Producer  prices  for  milk,  fixed  by  the
Government, are currently above border prices, and given the costs of
refrigerated storage and transport, are adequate tc offer farmers a reasonably
high return.
VII. FARM MODEL BUDGETS AND COST RECOVERY
A. Farm Budgets
7.01     Budgets for fourteen farm models have been prepared to represent the
main farm sizes and farming systems in the five sub-projects.  Each mnodel is
equal in size to the average of all the actual farms it represents, and the
analysis of each sub-project and the project as a whole is based on the
aggregation  of  the  models.   For  the  traditional  perimeters  of  Souss,
Chichaoua, and Ghiss the models are based on existing land-use patterns. For
the new perimeters of Middle Sebou and Jemaa Sahim they are derived from
land-use in nearby irrigated areas and they also reflect the incentive for
farmers to shift to highly profitable activities such as milk and sugar beet
production, the profitability of which is partly a consequence of Government
price  policy.   Dairy  production  is  promoted  on  farms  greater  than  two
hectares, through the purchase of pure bred heifers mainly on large farms and
the breeding of improved cattle primarily on medium-sized  farms.   Carrying
capacity for cattle is kept at or below one animal unit per hectare.   Sheep
production  is encouraged  on  farms  of  less  than two hectares.   Production
parameters  are  based  on  field  observations  made  in  Morocco.   For  each
sub-project the projected yields reflect results already achieved by farmers
using the proposed techniques in the region concerned.
7.02          The farm models indicate financial returns under the agreed cost
recovery arrangements (paras. 7.09 - 7.14) that are high enough to encourage
active  participation  by  farmers  in  irrigation  and  the  proposed  land-use
patterns.  The average financial rate of return ranges from 13% to 41% among
the models and is over 20% in eight models  representing  71% of the 7,938
project farms (nine models and 82% of the farms if a 0.5 ha exemption is
1/ Office national interprofessionnel des cereales et legumineuses.



- 40 -
introduced in the undelimited perimeters under the agreed cost recovery
formulae. The models generate incremental employment ranging from 0.1 to
5 m-y and aggregating to about 6,700 m-y for the project (see also para.
8.03). The farm models are presented in detail in Annex 15 and summarized
in the table below.
Farm Models
Per Farm Model
Total    Number              Income /1         Financial
Perimeters and        Irrigable      of    Without  With   Incre-   Rate of   Incremental
Farm Models            Area      Farms   Project Project mental  Return /2  Employment
(ha)              ----- (DH '000) ------          (%)  --  -- (m-y) --
Sous s
Model 1 (1.21 ha)          2,022    1,671       1.0       8.3     7.2         35           0.5
Model 2 (2.73 ha)         2,894    1,060        2.9      17.4   14.5          24           0.8
Model 3 (6.92 ha)         4,734       684       8.8      40.0   31.2          22           1.7
Sub-total           9,650    3,415
Middle Sebou/3
Model 1 (0.6 ha)             269      448       2.5       5.7     3.2         15           0.3
Model 2 (2.4 ha)           1,800      750     11.0       29.0   18.0          14           1.4
Model 3 (8.0 ha)          2,800       350     55.0      158.0  103.0          29           4.3
Sub-total           4,870    1,548
Chichaoua
Model 1 (0.56 ha)            677   1,209        1.3       3.3     2.0         25           0.2
Model 2 (1.59 ha)            684      430      4.0       10.5     6.6         32           0.5
Model 3 (11 ha)              539       49     26.8       68.0   41.2          41           1.8
Sub-total            1,900    1,688
Ghiss
Model 1 (0.26 ha)            225      864       1.2       2.5     1.3         18           0.1
Model 2 (1.6 ha)             291      182       7.2      18.2   11.0          22           0.6
Model 3 (7.6 ha)             403       53     17.3       69.9 - 52.6          17           2.9
Sub-total              920   1,099
Jemaa Sahim
Model 1 (1.14 ha)            180      158       1.3       8.6     7.3         13           0.5
Model 2 (7.2 ha)             230       32      15.1      72.0   56.9          17           5.0
Sub-total              410      190
Total Project    17,750    7,938                                                   6,700
/1  Income excludes off-farm  and non-farm  income and  assumes there  are   no
exemptions  under  the  agreed  cost  recovery  formulae   for  undelimited
perimeters.
/2  Financial rate of return to total resources applied.   If exemptions for
investment cost recovery above lOZ are granted for the first 0.5 ha of
farms of 5.0 ha or less, the financial rate of return for Model 1 rises by
3Z and 7%, respectively,        in Chichaoua and Ghiss.
/3  Middle Sebou farmers are assumed to own rainfed land of twice the area of
their irrigated land shown in the models, and the returns of this rainfed
land are included in the income estimates.
Note: Totals may not add because of rounding.



- 41 -
B. Cost Recovery
7.03     During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government would
ensure that cost recovery charges would be established which would be adequate
to recover from the water users in all the project perimeters 100% of the
costs incurred by the Government in the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation systems and a reasonable part of the investment costs as described
in  the  following  paragraphs.   Because  of their  different  legal  status,  a
distinction regarding the details of the formulae and the means of cost
recovery is made between delimited modern perimeters and undelimited
perimeters whether traditional or modern.
(i) Delimited Modern Perimeters
7.04     Present Situation.  Government policy on cost recovery in delimited
modern perimeters is in transition.  The key stages have been (i) the original
applicable  provisions  of  the  Agricultural  Investment  Code  of  1969,  (ii)
certain  changes  in  implementation approved  in 1980,  and  (iii)  a proposed
amendment  to the  Code  currently  under  consideration  (para.  5.17).   These
changes, which affect the Middle Sebou sub-projec:, are presented in detail in
Annex 18 and summarized in the following paragraphs.
7.05     The Agricultural Investment Code of 1969.  Under the Code a farmer's
contribution to irrigation costs is recovered through the following charges:
(a) a volumetric water charge covering t:he cost of operation and
maintenance, and the amortization of ithe primary, secondary, and
tertiary irrigation network external to the farm;
(b)  a supplementary water charge  covering  the energy  cost  of pumping
where it is done; and
(c)  a fixed land betterment levy of DH 1,500 per ha implicitly covering
part of the costs of quaternary channeLs, land leveling, drainage,
and other irrigation investments on the farm, and applied with an
exemption for the first five ha of holdings not exceeding 20 ha.
These basic charges are also subject (i) to the fixing by the Minister of
Agriculture of total investment cost recovery (under items (a) and (c) above)
within a range from zero up to a ceiling of 40%, of the original investment
costs, and (ii) to provisions for gradually bringing the initially subsidized
volumetric water charge up to the break-even point ("equilibrium rate") and
thereafter for maintaining its level through indexation according to criteria
spelled out in the Code.
7.06     In practice during the 1970's the volumetric water charge was never
increased from its original level set in 1969 and consequently remained too
low to amortize any part of external network costs in large irrigation
perimeters  or even to cover all 0 & M costs.  Moreover,  the supplementary
water charge for the energy costs of pumping was not officially implemented.
As a result, actual cost recovery was well below the minimum foreseen in the
Code.
7.07     Changes  in Implementation Enacted  in 1980.   In recognition of the
inadequacy of cost recovery practice in the 1970's the Government in 1980
decreed the following improvements:   (i) an increase of about  100%  in the



- 42 -
volumetric water charge to be phased in over three years; and (ii) actual
implementation of the pumping surcharge together with a tightening of it to
require full coverage of the cost of energy and indexation.  As a consequence
of effective implementation of these measures, recovery in the Bank-financed
Doukkala I perimeter (Loan 1201-MOR) has reached 100% of 0 & M and 14% of
investment costs, a performance level consistent with the provisions of the
Code.
7.08     Proposed Amendment  to the Code.   In 1982  the Government  concluded
that a structural change in the Code was needed to improve the equity of cost
recovery levels and facilitate their maintenance.   A draft amendment to the
Code (para. 5.17) has therefore been prepared under which:
(i) the volumetric water charge would cover (in addition to 100% of
0 & M) a required 10% of all irrigation investment costs, rather than
the present discretionary share of 0-40% of irrigation investment
external to the farm; and
(ii) the  land  betterment  levy  would  be  set  at  up  to  30%  of  total
investment costs (with preservation of the exemption for the first
five ha of holdings not exceeding 20 ha), in place of the present
fixed amount of DH 1,500 per ha.
In addition, the pumping surcharge,  as modified when implemented in 1980 to
provide for its indexing, would be retained.  Moreover,  a draft ministerial
decree  is  under  consideration  in  the  Government  providing  for  automatic
indexation of the volumetric water charge under a specific formula to be
applicable nation-wide,  in contrast to the present  less precise requirement
for indexation to be determined by the administration according to the general
criteria stated in the existing Code. The enactment of the proposed amendment
and the indexation decree would represent a substantial improvement in current
cost recovery policy.  It would (i) improve progressivity by a relative shift
of investment cost recovery to large farms through the revised betterment
levy, (ii) ensure a minimum contribution to investment by all water users
through the revised volumetric water charge, and (iii) increase the prospects
for sustained cost recovery levels through the new automaticity of indexing.
7.09     Cost  Recovery  in  the  Project.   For  the  Middle  Sebou  perimeter,
agreement was reached during negotiations that cost recovery charges would be
determined by application of the revised Code and would in any event cover a
minimum of 100% of 0 & M and 10% of investment under the volumetric water
charge and an additional 10% of investment (with statutory exemptions) under
the land betterment  levy.   This basis  is considered  satisfactory.   At  the
agreed minimum rate, it would provide for a net incremental income recovery of
27%, rent recovery of 48%, and total cost recovery (excluding taxes) of 31%.
The total cost recovery would be equivalent to recovery of 100% of 0 & M costs
and 16% of investment costs.
7.10     The advantages of the proposed amendment to the Code over the present
Code can be seen in quantitative terms in the case of Middle Sebou in the
following  table.   First,  although  the  maximum  recovery  rates  under  the
proposed  revision  of  the  Code  are  somewhat  less  than  the  discretionary
maximums possible under the present Code, the recovery rates resulting from
the agreed minimum formula for Middle Sebou under the proposed amendment are
substantially greater than the discretionary minimums at present, and are
better than the recent recovery performance in Doukkala (paras. 7.05-7.07).



- 43 -
Indices of Recovery in Middle Sebou Sub-project
Under the Present Code and its Proposed Revision
(percents)
Present Code          Revised Code
(min)  (max)      (max)  (agreed min)
1. Net Incremental Income
Recovery Index                   20      35        32         27
2. Rent Recovery                      36      63        58         48
3. Cost Recovery Indices:
(a) Total Recovery excluding
Incremental Income Taxes   19       45         40         31
(b) Investment Recovery
Above 100% 0 & M Cost
Recovery                      1     33         27         16
Second, the greater equity of cost recovery at the maximum and the agreed
minimum rates under the revised Code as compared with maximum recovery under
the present Code can be seen in the substantial re'ative shift of the burden
from the smallest Middle Sebou farm model (0.6 ha :!rrigated) to the largest
farm model (8.0 ha irrigated), as shown in the folLowing table. Even the
maximum recovery rate under the revised Code does not constitute an excessive
financial charge for the medium and large farms represented by the 8.0 ha
model (39% of net incremental income).
Middle Sebou
Smallest            Largest
Farm Model         Farm Model
(0.6 ha)/'          (8 ha)/2
Income per capita at Full Dev.         $285               $4,660
Net Incremental Income Recovery:
- Max under present Code                21%                 36%
- Max under revised Code                 12%                39%
- Agreed min under revised Code          12%                30%
Total Cost Recovery Index:/3
- Max under present Code                44%                 46%
- Max under revised Code                23%                 51%
- Agreed min under revised Code         23%                 35%
Investment Cost Recovery Index:/3
- Max under present Code                 31%                34%
- Max under revised Code                 10%                40%
- Agreed min under revised Code          10%                20%
/1  0.6 ha irrigated + 1.2 ha rainfed included in the delimited area.
/2 8 ha irrigated + 16 ha rainfed included in the delimited area.
/3 Excluding incremental income taxes.



- 44 -
Third, the assured minimum level of investment cost recovery from all farms
under the revised Code can be seen in the above table in the case of Middle
Sebou where even the smallest farm model provides for a 10% contribution
toward capital above full coverage of 0 & M costs.  With the discretionary
minimum recovery under the present Code, small and medium farms wouidl make no
contribution to investment at all.
(ii) Traditional and Undelimited Modern Perimeters
7.11     For  the  traditional  sub-project  perimeters  of  Souss,  Ghiss,  and
Chichaoua, and the undelimited modern perimeter of Jemaa Sahim, where water
users' associations would be responsible for 0 & M under legal statutes
deposited with the local authorities (para. 5.19-5.20), there is no
comprehensive national legal framework or policy governing cost recovery.  To
fill this gap, agreement was reached during negotiations that by no later than
six months before the scheduled start-up of irrigation in each undelimited
sub-project area, MARA would (i) propose specific cost recovery charges in
dirhams, and (ii) following a review of these charges with the Bank,
incorporate them in agreements which would be promptly entered into by ORMVASM
and the DPAs of Marrakech, Al Hoceima, and Safi with the water users'
associations in their subproject areas (para. 5.25).  These specific charges
would be calculated in accordance with an agreed method and would be designed
to result in the agreed upon percentages of cost recovery discussed below.
Water charges per m3 would be revised as needed in order to permit recovery of
all 0 & M costs.  These formulae are designed to (i) provide for recovery of
100% of 0 & M plus a reasonable share of investment costs so as to produce
approximate equality of total cost recovery (excluding taxes) with delimited
modern perimeters at a level of about 35%, (ii) allow for exemptions to take
account  of  the  financial  capacity  of  small  farmers  in  the  individual
sub-project perimeters, and (iii) avoid complexities that could be difficult
to understand  and administer.   These agreed  formulae are as  follows.   For
Chichaoua and Ghiss, investment cost recovery would be set at 40%, which would
be the same as 40% recovery of total costs since there are no pumping
charges.  For Souss and Jemaa Sahim, investment cost recovery would be set at
15% and 10%, respectively, which, when added to the recovery of 0 & M costs of
pumping stations, would bring total cost recovery to 38% and 32%, respectively.
Agreement was also reached that exemptions could be allowed to small farmers
for cost recovery above a minimum obligatory level of 100% of 0 & M plus 10%
of investment.   No definition of small farmer exemptions was specified  for
this purpose, but a limitation of such exemptions to a maximum of 0.5 ha to be
applied only to farms of 5.0 ha or less of irrigated land seems financially
possible and reasonable.
7.12     The lower total cost recovery of 32%  for Jemaa  Sahim  is proposed
because even at this level, incremental income and rent recovery are very high
(33% and 60% respectively) and the highest of all the project perimeters. The
agreed formulae would result (without exemptions) in levels of net incremental
income recovery of 12%, 17%, 21%, and 33%, respectively, for Chichaoua, Ghiss,
Souss and Jemaa Sahim.  These levels are generally lower than the 27% of net
incremental income recovery that would obtain in Middle Sebou at the agreed
minimum rate under the revised Code.   The differences reflect the fact that
the water users' associations in the four undelimited perimeters would be
responsible for 0 & M themselves (except for the pumping stations, which would
represent their only O&M payments to the Government).  The higher investment
cost recovery (without exemptions) of 40% in Chichaoua and Ghiss as compared



- 45 -
to l0%-16% in the three other perimeters is justified on the grounds of the
high payments by farmers for the 0 & M costs of the pumping stations in the
latter perimeters (see Table (ii) below).
7.13     The proposed formulae also result in progressivity in their burden on
farmer income.  Net incremental income recovery in each case is less for the
smallest  farm model  than  for  the  largest  farm model  (the  figures  being,
without exemption:   11% vs. 14% in Chichaoua, 20% vs. 26% in Ghiss,  18% vs.
25% in Souss, and 25% vs. 36% in Jemaa Sahim).  These ranges compare to 12%
vs. 30% in Middle Sebou at the agreed minimum formula under the revised Code.
7.14     Table  (i)  gives  a summary comparison of  the agreed  cost  recovery
formulae  for all  five  perimeters  discussed  above,  together  with  resultant
figures for rent recovery and for cost recovery inzluding incremental income
(i) Recovery Indices
Delimited
Undelimited Perimeters /1          Perimeter
Jemaa       Middle
Chichaoua Ghiss /2  Souss    Sahim          Sebou
100% O&M 100% O&M 100% O&M 100% O&M    Revised
Indices                   +40% Inv +40% Inv +15% Inv +10% Inv         Code
(agreed min)
…____________________   _ …(%)… -------------------
Total Cost Recovery (excl. tax):
- Average for Sub-project             40       40        38        32           31
- Smallest Farm Models                40       40        38        32           23
- Largest Farm Models                 40       40        38        32           35
Total Cost Recovery (incl. tax)    54          46        48        49           46
Investment Cost Recovery
(Average for Sub-project):
- Excluding tax                       40       40        15        10           16
- Including tax                       54       46        28        38           34
Net Incremental Income Recovery:
- Average for Sub-project             12        17 /2    21        33           27
- Smallest Farm Models                11        14 /2    16        25           12
- Largest Farm Models                 14        23       24        39           30
Rent Recovery                         24        27       35        60           48
/1  The figures shown assume no exemptions.  If the first 0.5 ha of farms of
5.0 ha or less were exempted from investment cost recovery above the
obligatory first 10%, the indices for Jemaa Sahim would be unaffected,
those for Souss would decline only slightly; for Chichaoua and Ghiss,
respectively, total cost recovery excl. tax would drop to 21% and 27% and
net incremental income recovery to 8% and 12% on average and to 3% and 2%
for the smallest farm models.
/2  Cost  of  flood  protection  works  excluded.   If  it  were  included,  net
incremental income recovery would be 23% on average and 20% for the
smallest farm models of 0.26 ha.



- 46 -
tax payments if no exemption is given. Table (ii) shows the absolute level in
dirhams of annual payments per ha not exempted for water charges, land
betterment levies, and water users' association contract investment charges
that would be required under the proposed cost recovery arrangements for the
five perimeters, as well as the resultant absolute levels of total and
investment cost recovery. Table (ii) also includes an imputed value of 0 & M
that would be performed by water users' associations (see Annex 18 for
details).
(ii) Estimated Annual Cost of Charges and Recoveries (DH per ha)
Delimited
Undelimited Perimeters            Perimeter
Jemaa       Middle
Charges                Chichaoua  Ghiss    Souss    Sahim           Sebou
and                   100% O&M 100% O&M 100% O&M 100% O&M    Revised
Recoveries                +40% Inv +40% Inv +15% Inv +10% Inv         Code
(agreed min)
Water Charge
-0 &   I                         -         _       812       738      1,010
10% of Investment/_              -         -         -        -         150
Sub-total                     -         -      812       738       1,160
Land Betterment Levy/3
- First 5 ha of farms
not over 20 ha                 -         -         -        -            -
- All other land                   -         -         -         -         243
Water User Association Contract
Investment Chargei/
- 10% of invest. (obligatory)   51         126 /4   104        183
- Addit. amount (exemptable)   153         378 /5    52          -           -
Total Cost Recovery
- Exempted land                   51       126       916       921       1,160
- All other land                 204       504       968       921       1,403
Investment Cost Recovery
- Exempted land                   51       126       104       183         150
- All other land                 204       504       156       183         393
Value of 0 & M
Performed by Water Users/6          165      160        90       117           -
/1 Energy costs included.
/2  Payment on loan of 35 years (project life), 4% interest and
3 years' grace period.
/3 Payment on loan of 20 years, 4% interest and 3 years' grace
period. Loan amount is present value of investment discounted
at 10% over the project life of 35 years.
/4 & /5 DH 86 and DH 258, respectively, would be added if the cost
of flood protection works were included.
/6 These imputed values of 0 & M in kind are not reflected in the
indices in Table (i).



- 47 -
7.15     In  future  projects  for  the  rehabilitation  of  traditional  SMSI
perimeters, the provision for a range of investment cost recovery, such as the
15-40% proposed for the Souss, Chichaoua, and Ghiss sub-projects, would allow
the varied critical characteristics of each traditional perimeter (type of
water resource mobilization, investment cost/ha, araount of 0 & M to be handled
by MARA and charged to farmers, etc.) as discussed in Chapter II to be taken
into account in relation to the standard recovery criteria of farmers' ability
to pay, Government revenue, and economic efficiency. Such flexibility is more
important in the traditional perimeters, where the differences are likely to
be considerably greater, than in modern perimeters, where investment costs and
net return per ha are relatively constant (Jemaa Sahim, because of its small
size and the hybrid approach to its development (para. 5.11), is not typical
of either the traditional or the modern perimeters).   The study to prepare a
second phase SMSI Project (para. 4.02) would include the preparation of a
proposed national approach to cost recovery in traditional perimeters, drawing
on the analysis underlying the proposals made above for the present project.
VIII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS, AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
General
8.01     The  proposed  project  aims  to  increase  agricultural  and  livestock
production in five widely separated food-deficit regions of Morocco and would
provide farmers with higher and more regular incomes and employment in the
five perimeters where irrigation rehabilitation works (Souss, Chichaoua,
Ghiss) or new construction works (Sebou, Jemaa-Sahim) would be undertaken.
The project would also yield foreign exchange Savings through food import
substitution  and  help  to  reduce  regional  imbalances.   Non-quantifiable
benefits would include strengthening of the Government's irrigation agencies
at  the  central  and  local  level  (see  paras.  4.08-4.09),  improving  their
efficiency, facilitating future implementation of the envisaged national SMSI
program involving several hundred thousand hectares in the next decade
(79,000 ha in the 1981-1985 Plan period), and providing a renewed legal
framework for water users' organizations to improve the capacity and incentive
of farmers to operate and maintain irrigation systems and thereby minimize
additional management burdens  on the Administration.   The  construction  and
rehabilitation of irrigation works under the project represents an average
baseline capital cost of about DH 18,150 per ha (.US$3,200 /ha), or DH 40,500
(US$7,170) per directly benefitting family (1982 orices).  This is at the low
end of the cost range for irrigation projects in Morocco as a result of the
high proportion of rehabilitation works and the high man-land ratio in the
five sub-project areas.
8.02     Production  Benefits.   The  value  of  annual  incremental  production
generated by the project at full development through higher yields, higher
cropping intensities and expanded physical area irrigated is estimated at DH
127 million (US$22.5 million) for crop production (+220% over "without project
situation") and DH 67 million (US$11.8 million) for livestock products (+420%
over  "without  project  situation"),  in  1982  prices.   All  this  incremental
production would be marketed and consumed in Morocco.  The incremental value
added to the economy is estimated at DH 131.5 million per annum (US$23.2
million), not counting induced value added in production of inputs or in the
processing industries.  The incremental gross value of production and value
added for each of the five sub-projects is as follows (1982 prices):



- 48 -
Incremental Direct
Incremental Gross Value of Production            Value added
At Full Development                At Full Development
Sub-project        Crops        Livestock          Total             Total
…---------------- In DH million (US$ million) ---------------
Souss           60.5 (10.7)   23.0 ( 4.0)    83.5 (14.7)          55.0 ( 9.8) /a
Middle Sebou   46.0 ( 8.1)   36.5 ( 6.5)    82.5 (14.6)           57.0 (10.1)
Ghiss            7.5 ( 1.3)    3.5 ( 0.6)    11.0 ( 1.9)           8.0 ( 1.4)
Chichaoua        9.0 ( 1.6)     1.5 ( 0.2)    10.5 ( 1.9)          7.5 ( 1.3)
Jemaa Sahim      4.0 ( 0.7)    2.5 ( 0.4)        6.5 ( 1.1)        4.0 ( 0.7)
Total      127.0 (22.5)   67.0 (11.8)   194.0 (34.3)         131.5 (23.2)
a/ Does not take into account DH 10 million of production
losses which would have occurred without the project
(disappearance of resurgences).
Details  on  production  increases  in  physical  quantities  are  contained  in
table (e) of Annex 5 and in Annex 13.
8.03     Employment   Benefits.    Initial   construction   and   rehabilitation
activities would generate an estimated 15,000 man-years of employment over
five years.  More important, permanent employment on benefitting farms would
increase from about 1.1 to 2.6 million man-days per year at full development,
which is equivalent to the creation of about 6,700 full time jobs.  About 75%
of this would represent added family employment, and 25% additional labor
hired by medium and large farmers.  The farm models analysis shows that the
additional demand for labor on the medium and large farms can be largely met
by hiring underemployed small farmers in the same perimeters, and in the
Middle Sebou and Jemaa Sahim sub-projects this would bring small farmers up to
full employment.  In the three traditional perimeters, assuming equal sharing
among underemployed small farmers, it would increase average employment by
about 50% in Souss and Ghiss and 20% in Chichaoua.  The project would greatly
reduce  seasonal  unemployment  and  therefore  help  to  maintain  wages  for
unskilled labor as well as reduce the rural-urban emigration rate in the five
sub-project  areas.   Employment  creation in these areas would be as follows
(see Annex 17 for details).
Employment Induced by
Construction Activities       Incremental Permanent
Sub-project          Over 5 Years                 Farm Employment
(in man-years)                 in man-years
at full development)
Souss                     6,200                        2,900
Middle Sebou              6,600                        2,700
Ghiss                     1,000                           370
Chichaoua                   650                          490
Jemaa Sahim                 550                           240
15,000                        6,700



- 49 -
8.04     Direct  Foreign  Exchange  Savings.   Based  on  projected  1990  world
market prices, expressed in 1982 currency units, the annual gross foreign
exchange value of incremental production of tradables (bread wheat, maize,
grain, sugarbeets, olives, beef, mutton, and milk) is estimated at US$19.6
million at full development, and the full amount is estimated to result in
import   substitution.    After  adjusting   for  foreign  exchange  costs   of
incremental traded recurrent inputs (seeds, fertilizers, machinery, etc.), of
about US$4.5 million per year at full development, the identifiable direct net
foreign exchange savings would total about US$15.1 million per year at full
development.   Discounted at the opportunity cost of capital  (10%)  over the
project life, direct foreign exchange savings wculd have a net present value
of US$64 million.
8.05     Beneficiaries.  The project would directly benefit about 8,000 farm
families (representing roughly 50,000 people) in the five sub-project areas by
increasing their farming income (see paras. 8.06 - 8.07), and would indirectly
benefit the surrounding populations through upstream and downstream activities
linked to crop and livestock production. The incremental benefits accruing to
farmers vary among perimeters, with the farmers of presently rainfed areas and
of perimeters presently without summer irrigation benefitting more than the
others in both absolute and relative terms.   However,  in a given perimeter,
despite the differences in production systems between large and small farms,
the distribution of the benefits resulting from increases in productivity is
roughly proportional to the size of land holdings, and the distribution of the
latter is not more skewed than in other irrigable areas of Morocco (see Annex
17).
8.06     The farm models on which the analysis of: the distribution of benefits
was based show expected increases in farm income ranging from DH 2,040
(US$361) in the case of the very small farms in the Ghiss perimeter (model 1 =
0.26 ha) to DH 103,000 (US$18,230) for the fruit-producing larger farms in the
Middle Sebou perimeter (1982 prices). The models also illustrate the range of
initial conditions, with 8 models that represent more than 6,000 families (75%
of the direct beneficiaries) and about 7,700 ha (44% of the irrigable area)
showing incomes per capita before project below the estimated absolute poverty
level;ll  5  farm models  that  represent  about  1,650  families  (21%  of  the
direct beneficiaries) and 7,300 ha (40% of the irrigable area) showing incomes
per capita before project between the estimated absolute poverty level and the
average  per capita GNP;2/  while  one  farm model  is  representative  of  350
families (4% of the direct beneficiaries) and 2,800 ha (16% of the irrigable
area) whose incomes per capita before project are already above the average
per capita GNP.
8.07     An aggregate share of 43%  of total  income  benefits  (net  of cost
recovery and after taxes) at full development would accrue to farmers who are
below the absolute poverty level before the project.  However, farmers owning
1 ha or less (25% of all beneficiaries) would still obtain at full development
farm incomes below the absolute poverty level and would have to engage in
off-farm activities.  As noted in para. 8.03, the increased demand for hired
labor on the large farms would provide substantial additional income to these
very  small  farmers.   The  project-wide  distribution  of benefits  among  farm
income groups would be as follows:
1/  Estimated   absolute   poverty   income   in  rural
areas: US$238 per capita; 6 persons in family.
2/ US$900 (1980).



- 50 -
Percent of          Percent of
Project Benefits lb
Income Group                    Farm    Irrigable   Accruing to Group
Present Situation   At Full Development  Families         Area     at Full Development
Below absolute
Poverty Level             26           5               6
Below absolute
poverty level        Between abs. poverty
(US$238)           level & average per
capita GNP /a
(US$900)                 49          39              37
Between absolute
poverty level &      Above average
average per          per capita GNP            21          40              33
capita GNP
Above average        Above average
per capita GNP       per capita GNP             4          16              24
100        100              100
/a Real growth estimated at 1.5% p.a.
/b Net of cost recovery and after taxes.
B. Economic Analysis
8.08     The overall economic rate of return of the project is estimated at
15 %.  It has been calculated by aggregating the ERRs for the five individual
sub-projects, which range from 12.9% to 17.3% and are based on the assumptions
described below.
8.09     Project Life, Construction Period, and Full Development.  The life of
irrigation rehabilitation and new construction works is assumed to be 35
years.   All works  would be completed  in five  years,  and  the construction
periods assumed for each sub-project are those of the implementation schedule
(see Annex 2). Full farmer participation in irrigation is projected for year
11 and full development for year 21.  Irrigation is assumed to start in the
year following the completion of all construction works in the new schemes
(Sebou, Jemaa Sahim) and in Ghiss where the rehabilitation must be completed
before the hydraulic system can deliver increased water to the network.
Farmer participation in irrigation in these three perimeters is phased over
6-7 years.  In Souss and Chichaoua, it is also phased over 6-7 years for each
independent  hydraulic  unit.   However,  the  staggering  of  their  completion
results  in  a  longer  overall  sub-project  phasing.   These  timetables  are
detailed in Annex 17 and summarized below.



- 51 -
% of Participation                             Project Year
(cumulative)         1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10          11
Ghiss                    0    0    0    5   16   42   75   92  100
Souss                    0    0    1    4   14   36   66   86   97   100
Middle Sebou             0    0    0    0    2    9   25   54   80    94    100
Chichaoua                0    2    6   17   36   49   67   86   94   100
Jemaa Sahim              0    0    0    5   15   40   75   90  100   _
Total Project       0   .4    2    6   16   33   59   80   93    98    100
8.10     The period from start-up of irrigation to full development  is five
years or less for crops,  except new fruit plant:ations (11 years),  and ten
years  or  less  for  livestock  depending  on  the  perimeters  (see  Annex  17).
Output would reach 90% of the level projected for full development in year 13
of the project (1996).  The assumption of participation by all project area
farmers in the project, based on their gradual phasing into irrigation over
periods of 6-9 years and their subsequent achievement of full development over
periods of 5-11 years, is considered realistic.
8.11     Prices.  Economic prices for the major internationally-traded inputs
and outputs were derived from the Bank's projections of world market prices,
with adjustments made for freight, handling and processing in Morocco.
Non-traded inputs (including labor) and outputs have been valued at their
market and farmgate prices adjusted by the appropriate conversion factors.
Detailed calculations of prices and wages used irt the analysis are presented
in Annex 17.
8.12     Benefits.  Benefits are defined to equal the value at economic prices
of incremental crop and livestock production resulting from the project.  For
the Souss sub-project they take into account the Froduction losses (due to the
disappearance of resurgences) which would continue to increase in the "without
project" situation.   These  expected  benefits  are  based  on  the  assumptions
regarding production presented in Chapter VI and were aggregated from the farm
models.  Except as noted for the Souss sub-project,  it has been assumed that
the "without project" situation would remain constant; in Chichaoua and Ghiss,
the continuing deterioration of the traditional networks would offset the
slowly improving trend in cultivation practices, and in Middle Sebou and
Jemaa Sahim, the margin for improvement of the existing rainfed agriculture in
the absence of any project was considered almost nonexistent.
8.13     Costs.   Investment  costs  include  all  project  works,  equipment,
technical services and physical contingencies, on-farm investments, and
replacement of irrigation,  livestock,  and agriculture  equipment.   Operating
costs cover the irrigation systems (including maintenance), the support
services  (including personnel)  and  incremental  farm production  costs.   All
costs  are  valued  at  economic  prices  (see  Annex  17).   In  addition,  the
incremental lowering of the water table in the irrigated areas surrounding the
Souss sub-project which would result  from the groundwater pumping under the
project has been considered as a negative externality and charged as a cost to
the project (see Annex 10).  All capital and recurrent costs to date in the
development of the traditional irrigation system3 have been treated as sunk
costs.



- 52 -
8.14     The  economic  rate  of  return  and  net  present  value  of  the  five
sub-projects are indicated below:
Economic Rate of        Net Present
Sub-project                of Return               Value /a
(%)              (DH millions)
Souss                          17.3                   118.5
Middle Sebou                   12.9                    50.2
Ghiss                          15.3                    14.6
Chichaoua                      16.7                    13.2
Jemaa-Sahim                    14.5                     5.6
/a discount rate 10%.
All the sub-projects yield acceptable rates of return (ERR).  The high ERR's
for the three traditional perimeters are considered illustrative of the rates
of return that may be expected from potential rehabilitation projects in
different  types  of  small  and  medium  scale  perimeters  located  throughout
Morocco.  Detailed economic cost and benefit streams for each sub-project are
presented in Annex 17.
C. Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks
8.15     Sensitivity analysis.  Sensitivity tests show that under a range of
adverse assumptions the resulting economic rates of return for each
sub-project remain satisfactory and the project would be viable even in the
unlikely event that all five sub-projects were affected  simultaneously.   As
could be expected, the economic viability of the traditional sub-projects is
less sensitive to changes in costs than to changes in benefits, and the
opposite  is true for the two new schemes.   A simultaneous  and significant
change in benefits (-20%) and irrigation costs (+20%) or a significant delay
in benefits (2 years) accompanied by a 10% increase in irrigation costs would
still yield acceptable rates of return for each sub-project and for the whole
project. Switching values show that crop and livestock benefits would have to
fall by 40% or incremental farm production costs to increase by 88% to reduce
the project's economic rate of return to the assumed opportunity cost of
capital of 10%.  Similarly,  irrigation construction costs would have to jump
by  134%  to threaten the economic viability  of  the  project.   Such  adverse
changes for these three critical parameters are very unlikely. The results of
the sensitivity analysis are summarized below.



- 53 -
Economic Rates of Return (%)
Middle                                        Total
Test              Souss   Sebou   Ghiss   Chichaoua   Jemaa Sahim   Project
Base Case              17.3    12.9    15.3        16.7         14.5          14.9
Benefits down 20%      14.6    11.1    13.3        14.7         12.5          12.6
Benefits lagged
one year              15.5    11.9    14.1        15.4         13.3         13.5
Benefits lagged
two years             14.0    11.0    13.0        14.2         12.3         12.4
All Costs up 20%       15.1    11.5    13.7        15.0         12.8          13.0
Benefits down 20%      12.9      9.9    12.0       13.5         11.2          11.4
and irrigation
construction and
O&M costs up 20%
Benefits lagged        13.3    10.5    12.4        13.7         11.0         11.7
two years and
irrigation con-
struction and
O&M costs up 10%
Switching Values (at 10% discount Rate)
Crop and
livestock benefits    -49      -25      -44        -51         -35           -40
Irrigation cons-
truction costs        +198     +63    +108        +184        +110          +134
Incremental farm
production costs      +109      +57     +96       +110          +74          +88
8.16     Risks.  The main potential risks are institutional.   Problems could
arise in the formation of water users' associations in Chichaoua, Ghiss, and
Jemaa Sahim which could delay completion of the project. Difficulties could
also arise in the management of the associations, once they have been formed,
which could adversely affect the operation and maintenance of the irrigation
systems in the traditional perimeters and potent:ially lead to lower network
efficiency, increased network replacement costs and reduced crop yields and
project benefits.  However, this risk does not appear to be excessive in view
of the long-standing practice of cooperation among water users in traditional
perimeters on the basis of oral agreements on water rights, scheduling of
watering, and responsibilities for maintenance, which would be reinforced by
the association contracts entered into with the DPAs and ORMVASM and by the
monitoring  to be exercised  by  these MARA  agencies.   There  is  a risk  of
shortfall in Government budgetary financing for the project which could delay
implementation and adversely affect costs and benefits. This risk is believed
to be limited in light of the high priority given by the Government to the
launching of a major expansion and improvement of the development program in
SMSI of which this project is the first significant step.  Recent trends in
Government measures affecting prices of inputs and outputs relevant to the
project, if maintained, are not expected to pose any substantial risk to farm
profitability and farmer participation  in the Froject.   No major risks are
foreseen in project construction.



- 54 -
IX. SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS
9.01     During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained from the
Kingdom of Morocco:
(i) contracts with individual consultants for 99 man-months of technical
assistance would be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for use of consultants and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (paras. 4.09, 4.24, 5.07, 5.29);
(ii) the Borrower would ensure that CNCA provides on-farm credit to
sub-project farmers (para. 4.15);
(iii) the implementing agencies and the Ministry of Finance would
separately identify budgetary allocations and maintain separate
accounts for each sub-project, and the Ministry of Finance would
audit the sub-project accounts, verify physical implementation, and
submit certified accounts and an audit report to the Bank within 6
months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.28);
(iv) the CMU would be maintained in operation until project completion and
would be responsible for the preparation of a quarterly report on
project progress; and the existing Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of
MARA's Directorate of Planning and Economic Affairs would carry out
an economic and social baseline survey of the sub-project areas and
monitor and evaluate project benefits (para. 5.04);
(v) the Borrower's Marrakech DPA would construct a Chichaoua field office
and provide it with technical staff on a basis and timetable
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.06);
(vi) the Borrower's Fes DPA would establish within its organization an
irrigation operations division on a basis satisfactory to the Bank by
December 31, 1985 (para. 5.10);
(vii) the  Borrower's  Safi  DPA  would  ensure  that  the  water  userst
associations of the Jemaa Sahim sub-project area would be created on
a de facto basis by no later than June 30, 1985 (para. 5.11);
(viii) the Borrower would take all measures necessary to establish by
December 31, 1985 an appropriate legal framework for the creation and
operation of water users' associations, and promptly thereafter
ensure  that  ORMVASM  and  the  sub-project  DPAs  take  all  measures
necessary to ensure the conformity of the water users' associations
to the requirements of the new legal framework (paras. 5.18 and 5.19);
(ix) the Borrower would continue to control pumping in the Souss valley
aquifer in accordance with the decree of September 9, 1981 and inform
the Bank of the effect that this control has on pumping and on the
lowering of the ground-water level in the valley (para. 5.26);
(x) the Borrower's Directorate of Crop Production would maintain in being
its unit for irrigated crop agronomy (para. 5.30);



- 55 -
(xi) the various project support activities would be carried out by MARA
in time to provide the necessary support to on-farm development
beginning with the initial start-up of irrigation in each subproject
area (paras. 5.29, 6.06);
(xii) the Borrower would establish specific charges to be borne by the
water users of the perimeters sufficient to cover all operations and
maintenance costs financed by the Government and a reasonable share
of   investment   costs   of   the   perimeters   (para.   7.03);   more
particularly, the Borrower would, by six months before the scheduled
start-up of irrigation in each undelimited sub-project area, propose
specific cost recovery charges, and, following a review with the
Bank, incorporate them in agreements to be promptly entered into by
the Borrower's ORMVASM and DPAs of Marrakech, Safi, and Al Hoceima
with the water users' associations; the. specific charges would be
based on the cost recovery  formulae described  in para.  7.11.   The
betterment levy to be charged in the Middle Sebou perimeter would be
no less than 10% (para. 7.09); and
(xiii) the Borrower's DPA of Al Hoceima would ensure that any transfer of
water to the Nekor perimeter would not be materially detrimental to
irrigation in the Ghiss perimeter (para. 3.08).
9.02     Conditions  of  disbursement  of  loan  funds  for  civil  works  and
equipment would be:
(a) in the Chichaoua sub-project area:
(i) furnishing to the Bank of copies of all the signed statutes of the
water users' associations and the minutes of the general meeting
creating each association in the perimeter (para. 5.23);
(ii) adoption of a rational  and viable  plan,  accepted by the affected
associations of water users' upstream and downstream, for the use of
the water of the Tajoujet seguia (para. 5.24); and
(b) in the Ghiss sub-project area:
(iii) furnishing to the Bank of copies of all the signed statutes of the
water users' associations and the minutes of the general meeting
creating each association in the perimeter (para. 5.23);
(c) Disbursement under Category 1 (civil works other than for power supply) of
not  more  than  the  equivalent  of  US$1,000,000  could  be  made
retroactively  for expenses  incurred  since  July  1,  1982,  for  the
start-up  of  tubewell  exploratory  works  and  the  land-use  survey
through landsat imagery in the Souss perimeter (para. 4.26).
9.03     Subject  to  the  above  assurances  and  conditions,  the  project  is
suitable for a loan of US$42 million equivalent with a term of 17 years,
including a four-year grace period.
1698E



- 56-                                  ANNEX 1
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
List of Documenlts in Project File
GENERAL
-   Analyse des aspects institutionnels 1i6s au developpement du secteur de la
petite et moyenne hydraulique - MARA - Juin 1982c
-   Modalit6s d'usage et de r6par>ition des eaux dans quelques perimetres de
petite et moyenne hydraulique  -- P. Pascon (consultant) - Mars 1982.
-   Probidmes institutionnels poses par 1 extension de la petite et moyenne
hydraulique - P. Pascon (consultant) - Mars 1982.
-   Liste des etudes d'amenagement r6alisees des diff6rents secteurs de petite
et moyenne hydraulique - MARA - Mars 1982.
-   Legislation sur les associations d'irrigants - P. Pascon (consultant) -
Mars 1982.
-   Rapport d'identification d'un projet de d6veloppement de la petite et
moyenne hydraulique agricole - FAO/CP - Decembre 1980.
-   Rapport de preparation d'un projet de developpement de la petite et
moyenne hydraulique agricole - FAO/CP - Rapport No. 21/82 MOR. 23 -
May 20, 2983.
SOUSS
-   Etude de factibilitd de la premiere tranche des perimetres traditionnels
du Souss - SCET - Avril 1982.
-   Plan quinquennal 1981-85 - Programme d'actions et credits correspondants -
ORMVASM - Avril 1980.
-   Rapport d'activit6 de 1'exercice 1981 - ORMVASM - Decembre 1981.
-   Projet d'equipement ddfinitif, 1982 - ORMVASM - AVril 1982.
-   Concours international pour etude des plans directeurs des eaux des
bassins Sebou, Bou Regreg, Oum Rbia, Souss-Massa et Moulouya - Direction
de l'hydraulique - Juin 1982,
-   Nappe phreatique de la plaine du Souss : etude sur modele mathematique -
Direction des ressources en eaux et en sols -- Aout 1981.
-   Aide-memoire de la mission d'evaluation - BIRD - Juin 1982.
-   Note sur le controle de 1'exploitation de la nappe du Souss - ORMVASM -
Juin 1982e



- 57 -                                ANNEX 1
Page 2
Arrondissement hydraulique d'Agadir : le projet Souss, 1980 - Mise au
point hvdraulique - Direction des ressources en eaux et en sols -
Novembre 1980.
Bilan hydraulique de l'aquifere du Souss en periode de croisiere -
Direction des ressources en eaux et en sols   Janvier 1981.
Aper,u sur le secteur traditionnel irrigue dii Souss - ORMVASM -
Fevrier 1981.
Nappe phreatique de la plaine du Souss : rehabilitation des perimetres
traditionnels de Taroudant, Igli et Ahmar Boudhar - etude sur modele
mathematique en regime transitoire - Direction des ressources en eaux et
en sols - Mai 1982.
Nappe phreatique de la plaine du Souss : 6tude sur modele mathematique en
regime transitoire - etalonnage en regime permanent - Direction des
ressources en eaux et en sols - F6vrier 1981.
Dossier sur les pdrimZtres traditionnels du Souss - ORMVASM - 1981.
Etude de 1'equipement des secteurs traditionnels du Souss - premiere
tranche - canevas hydraulique - SOMET - Fevr;ier 1982.
GHISS
-   Am6nagement hydro-agricole de la plaine d'Al Hoceima
*  Dossier de financement : Rapport de synthise - ADI GERSAR -
Juillet 1981.
* Dossier de financement : Actualisation des fiches de cultures -
ADIGERSAAR - 1981.
* Dossier de financement : Rapport de synthZ!se - ADIGERSAAR -
Juillet 1981.
* Avant-projet detai11 - SOMET - Novembre 1.977.
* Avant-projet sommaire - SOMET.
* Etude preliminaire - TECHNOEXPORTSTROY - Mai 1982.
'  Etude pedologique complementaire - SOMET.
-   Determination des debits maximum instantannes de frequence cinquentennale
et centennale - Direction de l'hydraulique - Juin 1979.



- 58 -                                 ANNEX 1
Page 3
SEBOU
Amenagement hydro-agricole des Ouljas de l'Inaouene Aval
et du Moyen Sebou :
*  Etude de factibilite - Agronomie - SETEC - Juin et Septembre 1980.
* Avant-projet - Instructions et conditions d'amenagement du
secteur III - SETEC - Octobre 1981.
* Avant-projet des stations de pompage et reservoirs du secteur III -
SETEC - Avril 1982.
* Avant-projet - Secteur II - SETEC - 1981.
*  Avant-projet - Ouvrages de tete - Secteurs II et III - SETEC -
Decembre 1981.
CHICHAOUA
-   Etude de la mise en valeur et de 1'equipement
* Avant-projet - SOMET - Avril 1974.
* Projet d'execution - SOMET - Juin 1978.
-   Amenagement du perimetre Chichaoua - Avant-projet modifie - MARA -
Juin 1982.
-   La situation agricole - MARA.
-   Amenagement des ouvrages de franchissement - MARA - Juin 1982.
-   Renseignements divers - Juin 1982.
JEMAA SAHIM
-   Etude integree du perimetre de Jemaa Sahim
* Etude agro-economique.
* Avant-projet d'equipement - SCET - Avril 1979.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO                                             Page  1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
I  1983     1 .984   1  1985   I  1986   I  1987
SOUSS SUB-PROJECT (9,670 ha)
- Irrigation Rehabilitation
* Exploratory Tubewells
* Tubewells and Pumping Stations
* Distribution Networks
- Building Construction
* Work Supervision
* Others
- Technical Assistance
- Studies                                   ----
- On-Farm Investments
MIDDLE SEBOU SUB-PROJECT (4,865 ha)
- Irrigation Works
- Pumping Stations and Lifting Pipes
- Distribution Networks
- Building Construction
* Work Supervision
* Others
- Technical Assistance
- Studies
- On-Farm Investments



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
I  1983   I  1984   I  1985   l  1986   I  1987
JEMAA SAHIM SUB-PROJECT (410 ha)
- Irrigation Works
- Building Construction
- Technical Assistance
- On-Farm Investments
GHISS SUB-PROJECT (920 ha)
- Irrigation Rehabilitation
* Head-reach and Main Canals
* Distribution Networks
* Flood Protection Works
- Builiding Construction
- Technical Assistance
- On-Farm Investments
CHICHAOUA SUB-PROJECT (1,900 ha)
- Irrigation Rehabilitation
* Siphons across Rivers
* Distribution Networks
- Building Construction                         _                               -
- On-Farm Investments



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
SOUSS SUBPROJECT
List of Contracts and Procurement Procedure
Amount***
('000 DH)                                                                       ORMVASM's
Average        Method of           Maximum Number of Contracts              Service         Contractor
Total  per Contract   Procurement   PYI   PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5   Total   in Charge                   or Supplier
A.  IRRIGATION CIVIL WORKS /1
- Tubewells, Bores                             35,630       11,877             ICB /2      1       1      1    -       -        3 *       SEQ/a         Enterprise
- Wells                                          3,304       3,304            LCB /3       1        1     -    -       -        2 *
- Piezometers                                      692          692           LCB          -       -      -    1                 I
- Canal Construction                            54,900      18,300             ICB         -       2      1    -       -        3 **
- Canal Lining                                 23,484         7,828           I.CB         -       2      1    -       -        3 **
- Road Improvement                               3,398       3,398            LCB          -       -      1    -       -        1
- Power Supply                                 23,164       11,582             ICB         -       -      2     -      -        2 **       "         ONE Enterprise
- Pumping, Power Stations                        6,628       2,209            LCB          -        I     I    -       -        2 **                    Enterprise
B.  CONSTRUCTION
- Houses, Offices                               19,170       4,793             LCB         1       2      1    _       -        4         SEQ           Enterprise
- Development Centers and Sub-centers,
Livestock, Breeding Artificial
Insemination, and Milk Collection
Centers                                     5,266        5,266            LCB          -       1      -    -       -        1
C.  EQUIPMENT
- Electro-mechanical Equipment                  12,532        6,266            ICB         -       -      2    -       -        2         SEQ
- Hydro-mechanical Equipment                     1,556        1,556            NC /6       -       -      -    2       -         2
- Extension and Demonstration,
- Development and Livestock Centers,
and Artificial Insemination
Equipment                                   13 S4        1,3 5            LIT /4                      '            -        I   SPA!-, SEL!-
- Milk Collection Center Equipment                 868          434            ICB         -        1     -     I      -        2
- Operation & Maintenance Equipment              2,865        2,865            ICB         -       -      I    -       -         1        SG/d
D.  BREEDING ANIMALS                                    268          268           LS /5        -       -                            I -  -  1  SEL
E.  VEHICLES                                         1,714          571            LCB          I       I      I    -       -        3        SAF/e
P.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                             1,066        1,066            BP /6        1       -      -    -       -        I        SEQ
C.  STUDIES                                          2,704          901            BP           3       -      -    -       -        3        SEQ
TOTAL                  200,563        5,278                         8      12    14    4       0        38
/I  Project area will be divided into:                                                                                                        /a  SEQ = Service de l'dquipement  , S
T1 includes sectors Dl, Glo, GII, G12, G13, G14   3,400 ha                               *   One for exploration and one for            lb  SPA = Service de la
T2 inludes sector D9 = 3,100 ha                                                                 project construction                                  production agricole    (
T3 includes sectors D4, D6, D7, DlI, G8 - 3,200 ha.                                      **  One for T + T2 and                         /c  SEL = Service de 1'dlevage
/2  ICB = International Competitive Bidding                                                            one for T3                             /d  SC  = Service de gestioni des  
/3  LCB = Local Competitive Bidding                                                             *** Including physical and price                            rdseaux
/4  LIT = Limited International Tendering                                                              contingencies                          /e  SAF = Service administratif
/5  LS  = Local Shopping                                                                                                                                    et financier
/   NC   = Negotiated Contract



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAI REPORT OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
MIDDLE SEBOU SUBPROJECT
List of Contracts and Procurement Procedure
Amount*
('000 DH)                                                                        DPA's
Average        Method of           Maximum Number of Contracts             Service         Enterprise
Total  per Contract   Procurement   PYI   PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5   Total   in Charge                  or Supplier
A.  IRRIGATION CIVIL WORKS
-  Land Consolidation                           1,260        1,260            BP /2       1       -      -    -      -         I        SER/a        Enterprise
-  Land Levelling and Subsoiling,
Surface Drainage, and Farm Roads /1  54,071           18,024            ICB /3      -       1      1    1      -         3
-  Lifting Pipes and Reservoirs                21,798       10,899            ICB         -       I      I    -      -         2         "
-  Trapezoidal Feeder Canals                   10,550        5,275           LCB          -       1      1    -      -        2
-  Distribution Canals, Pipes,
and Siphons /I                           69,435       23,145            ICB         -       I      I    1       -        3
-  Earth Quaternary Canals                      5,433        5,433            LCB /4      -       -      I    -      -         I
-  Pumping and Power Stations                  12,941       12,941            [CB         -       I      -    -      -        I
-  Access Roads                                14,450       14,450            ICB         -       I      -    -      -         I         "
-  Power Supply                                17 ,267      17,267            ICB         -       I      -    -      -         I         "         ONE/Enterprise
B.  CONSTRUCTION
-  Houses and Offices in Fes                    2,435        2,435           LCB          -       I      -    -      -         I                     Enterprise
-  Houses in Souk Sebt                          5,189        5,189            LCB         -       I      -    -      -         I
-  Offices, Work Center, Livestock
Center, Workshop, Shop and Shed
in Souk Sebt                              1,562        1,562            LCB         -       I      -    -      -         I         "                ")
-  Breeding Stations                              315          315            LCB         -       1      -    -      -         1
C.  EQUIPMENT
-  Electro-mechanical Equipment                12,628       12,628            ICB         -       -      I    -      -         I                      Supplier
-  Hydro-mechanical Equipment                   7,539        7,539           NC /6        -       -      I    -      -         I
-  Extension and Demonstration, Work and
Livestock Centers, and Artificial
-    Insemination Equipment                       609          609            LIT /5      -       -      -    1      -         I  SPV/', SE/C 
-  Operation and Maintenance Equipment          2,945        2,945            ICB         -       -      -    1      -         I        SER
D.  BREEDING ANIMALS                                   109          109           LS           -      -      1    -       -        I        SE            State Farm
E.  VEHICLES                                         1,490         497            LCB          I      I      I    _       -        3        SAF/d          Supplier
F.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                            2,688        2,688            BP          -       I      -                     I-        SER          Cons. Firm
G.  STUDIES                                          2,497       2,497            BP           1      -      -    -       -        I        SER
TOTAL                 247,211        8,524                        3      13      9    4      -        29
/1  One contract for sector II and                                                            * Including physical    /a  SER = Service de ltequipement rural                    ro
one for sector III                                                                          and price              /b  SPV = Service de In production vegetale    
/2  BP  = Bank Procedure                                                                           contingencies          /c  SE  = Service de l'elevage
/f  ICB H   International Competitive Bidding                                                                            /d  SAF = Service administratif et financier
/4 LCB - Local Competitive Bidding
/3 LIT = Limited International Tendering
/6  NC  - Negotiated Contract



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
JEMAA SAHIM SUBPROJECT
List of Contracts and Procurement Procedure
Amount*
('000 DII)                                                                       DPA's
Total/Average per        Method of          Maximuim Number of Contracts             Service         Enterprise
Contract          Procurement   PYl   PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5   Total   in Charge                 or Supplier
A.  IRRIGATION CIVIL WORKS
- Underground Distribution Pipes, Pumping
Station and Intake                                4,264                  LCB /1       1     -      -      -      -         I        SER/b         Enterprise
-  Internal Surface Drainage, Farm Roads                3,304                  LCB         -      1      -      -      -         I         "                "
-  Power Supply                                           550                  LCB         -      I      -      -      -         I        ONE/a      ONE/Enterprise
B.  CONSTRUCTION
-  Houses, Cooperative Center and Workshop,
Livestock Center, Breeding Stations,                                                                                                                                            a3
Milk Collection Center and Other Offices    2,860                        LCB          I                - _                 I
C.  EQUIPMENT
-  Electro-mechanical Equipment                         1,398                  1CB /3                 -                -         I                       Supplier
-  Hydro-mechanical Equipment                             556                  NC /2       -      I         -      -             I
-  Mobile Sprinklers, Pipes and Hydrants                2,042                  ICB         -      I      -      -      -        I
- Extension, Demonstration, Workshop,
Work and Livestock Centers, Office
and Insemination Equipment                          519                  LIT /4       -     I      -      -      -         I   SE, SPV/c
-  Milk Collection Center Equipment                       157                  LIT         -      -      -      1               I 1   SPV, SE/d
D.  BREEDING ANIMALS                                            26                 LS /5        -      -      I      -      -        I        SE            State Farm
E.  VEHICLES                                                 143/71                LCB          1      -      1      -               2        SAF/e          Suipplier
TOTAL                       15,819/1,318                           3      6      2      1      -       12
/1  LCB = Local Competitive Bidding                                                             * Including physical    /a  ONE = Office national d'electricite
and price
/2  NC  = Negotiated Contract                                                                       contingencies           /b  SER = Service de l'quipement rural                 'x Z
/3  ICB = International Competitive Bidding                                                                                 /c  SPV = Service de la production vegetale             (D m
W Li
/4  LIT = Limited International Tendering                                                                                   /d  SE  = Service de l'elevage
/5  LS  = Local Shopping                                                                                                    /e  SAF = Service administratif et financier



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
CHISS SUBPROJECT
List of Contracts and Procurement Procedure
Amount*
('000 DH)                                                                      DPA' s
Total/Average per       Method of          Maximum Number of Contracts            Service         Enterprise
Contract         Procurement   PYI   PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5   Total    in Charge             or Supplier
A.  IRRIGATION CIVIL WORKS
-  Diversion Weir and Intake                            1,228 /I            LCB /2      -       I                           I _  _  1  SER/a       Enterprise
-  Pipes and Canals                                    11,566 /1            ICB /3      -             -     -      -        I
-  Surface Drainage                                     6,605               LCB         -       I    -      -      -        I
-  Underground Pipe Drainage                            4,131               LCB         -      -      I     -      -        I
-  Farm Road Improvement                                2,112               LCB         -      -      1     -      -        I
-  Flood Protection Works                               6,676               LCB         -       I    -      -      -        I
B.  CONSTRUCTION
-  Houses and Livestock Center                          1,615               ICB          I     -      -     -      -        I         "                 "
C.  EQUIPMENT
-  Hydro-mechanical Equipment                           1,580               NC          -                                   1                       Supplier
- Work Center, Extension, Demonstration,
- Livestock Center, and Artificial
Insemination Equipment                               267              LIT /4                                 -        I   SpV/b, SE/c
D.  VEHICLES                                                 183/91              LCB         I       1    -      -     -         2        SAF/d
E.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                     1,568               BP /5       -       I    _            -         I        SER        Constilting Firm
F.  STUDIES                                                    167               BP          I   _-                              1
TOTAL                         37,698/2,900                       3       8    2      -      -       13
/1  These are part of the costs for common irrigation works                                  * Including physical      /a  SER = Service de l'equipement rural
between Chiss and Nekor perimeters                                                         and price
contingencies         /b  SPV - Service de Ia production vegetale
/2  LCB - Local Competitive Bidding                                                                                                                                                 Z
/c  SE  = Service de I'elevage                            (  ><
/3  ICB - International Competitive Bidding                                                                                                                                      (D (
/d  SAF = Service administratif et financier
/4  LIT = Limited International Tendering
/5  BP  = Bank Procedure



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
CHICHAOUA SUBPROJECT
List of Contracts and Procurement Procedure
Amount*
('ODD DH)                                                                       DPA's
Total/Average per       Method of           Maximum Number of Contracts             Service         Enterprise
Contract          Procurement   PY1   PY2   PY3   PY4   PYS   Total   in Charge               or Supplier
A.  IRRIGATION CIVIL WORKS
-  Siphons Across the Rivers                             1,134               LCB /1       -      I     -      -      -         I        SER/a         Enterprise
-  Canal Rehabilitation                                  2,976               LCB          1      -     -      -      -         I
-  Canal Lining                                          6,624                LCB         I      -      -     -      -         I
-  Surface Drainage                                        441               LCB          -      I      -     -      -         I
-  Farm Road Improvement                                   871               LCB          -      I     -      -      -         1
-  Flood Protection                                      6,625               LCB          -      I      -     -      -         I
B.  CONSTRUCTION
-  Houses and Livestock Center                         2,312/1,156           LCB          I      I      -     -      -        2
C.  EQUIPMENT
-  Hydro-mechanical Equipment                              146               NC /4        -             I     -      -         I                       Supplier                     CY
- Extension, Demonstration, Livestock and
Work Centers, and Artificial
Insemination Equipment                               448                LIT /2      -      I             -      -        I   SpV/b, SE/c
D. VEHICLES                                                   314/157             LCB          I      I                   _        7         A/d
E.  STUDIES                                                      -                BP /3        1     -      -      -      -        I        SER       Consulting Firm
TOTAL                         21,891/1,328                         5     7      1      _      -       13
/1  LCB - Local Competitive Bidding                                                           * Including physical    /a  SER - Service de l'equipement rural
and price
/2  LIT - Limited International Tendering                                                          contingencies          /b  SPV - Service de la production vegetale
/3  BP  = Bank Procedure                                                                                                  /c  SE  - Service de 1l'1evage
/4  NC  - Negotiated Contract                                                                                             /d  SAF - Service administratif et financier
ALi,



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Summary Cost Estimates
and Schedule of Expenditures
bse Costs                            Fco  'n Exchange
No. of 0__
Unit    Unit Cost    Units   1983         1964       1985       1986       1987     Total            Amount
===G------------      - (DHOOO)…(DHOOO)
I. INYEST1ENT COSTS
A. IRRIGATION CIVIL WORKS
LAND SUBSOILING, LEVELLING                    2           11,770        1        -    39531.0    59B85.0    2,354.0         -   11,770.0 48,0    5,649.6
DIVERSION WEIRS AND INTAKES                   2              843        1        -      337.2       505.8          -        -      843.0 35.0       295.1
CANAL, PIPE CONSTRUCTION                      1       792-36,547       12  3,416.9   23i460.3   41,238.9   35YB30.6 14,614.3  118,561.0 40.0   47,424.4
CANAL LINING                                  Z     4,625-159633        2    462.5   7,002.4    6P539.9    4,689.9  1,563.3  20f258.0 35,0    7,090.3
CANAL REHhBILITAIlON                          1            2,078        1    415.6    1s039.0      623.4           -        -    2,078.0 25.0       519.5
RESERVOIRS                                    Z        585-5,822        2        -      234.0    2,039.l    2,969.5  1,164.4    6t407,0 41,0    2,626.9
TUBEWELLS9 BORES, PIEZOMETERS                 2     1,212-23P110       2  2,795.8    79660.2   6,933.0    4,622.0  2,311.0   24t322.0 46,0   11,188.1
WELLS                                         1            2,200        1    220.0      660.0      60.0        440.0   220.0    2,200.0 40,0        980.0
AWINIG  PWUER, STATIONS                       1        140-89570        4  2,571.0    5i688.9    3.820.5       981.9     59.7   13,122.0 35.0    4,592.7
SURFACEs PIPE DRAINAGE                        1       308-11,946        6        -    3P892.0   11,146.3   5,915.6  1,733.1  22,687.0 35,0    7,940.5
FLOOD PROTECTIDON                                    4,583-4,626        2        -    2,300.1   5,529.7    1,379.2          -    9,209.0 35.0    3,223.2
ROAD CONSTRUCTIDN                             I      1440-9,570         3        -    3i415.5    6P430.5    4,897.5  2,541.5  17,285,0 45.0    7.778.3
ROAD IMPROVEIENT                              1        608-2r262        3        -      425.6   2,311.0   1,131.0   452.4   4,320.0 35,0    1,512.0
Sub-Total IRRIGATION CIVIL WORKS                                              9,881.8  59,646.2  93,663.1   65,211.2 24,659.7  253,062.0 39.8  100,720.4
Phusical Contingencies                                                  -  1,482.3    8P946.9   14,049.5    9,781.7  3s699.0  37,959.3 39.8   15,108.1
Price Contingencies                                                     -  1,139.9   13P493.4  31,266.3  28,669.3 13,541.5  88,110.5 34.2   30,148.2
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                            12,504.0  82,086.5  138,978.9  103,662.2 41,900.2  379,131.8 38,5  145,976.6
Taxes                                                                  -  3v556.4   22s949.3  389797.7  29,045.5 11,709.0  106,057.9  0.0             0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                       -  4,859.0  319674.4  53,329.6  399971.9 16,141.7  145,976.6  0.0              0.0
5. PWER SUPPLY
POUER LINES                                   1       426-11,435        3    255.6    8s389.9    7,600.5   3,955.0          -   20,201.0 60.0   12,120.6
POWER EGUIPMENTfTRANSFORNERS                  2      1,195-6p320        2        -    1P896.0   2,528.0   1,861.5  1,229.5   7,515.0 60.0   4,509.0
Sub-Total POWER SUPPLY                                                          255.6  10?285.9   10P128.5    54816.5  1,229.5   27,716.0 60.0   16,629.6
Phisical Contingencies                                                 -      38.3    1w542.9    1,519.3       872.5   184.4   4,157.4 60.0    2p494.4
Price Contingencies                                                     -     25.7    2v073.9   3,058.9    2o323.6    611.3   8,093.3 56.9    4P608.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                               319.7   13f902.7   14,706.6   9,012.5  2,025.2  39,966.7 59.4  23,732.4
Taxes                                                                  -      95.9   4,170.8    49412.0   2,703.8   607.6   11.990,0  0,0             0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                        -    190.8    8a270.6   8,733.7   5,340.7  1,196.7  23,732.4  0.0             0.0
C. BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
HOUSES, OFFICES                            UNIT         50-1,152      142  1,849.6   10,176.0   3,860.4    5,370.0   959.0   22,215.0 35.0   7,775.3
MILK COLLECTION CENTERS                    UNIT              200       7         -      200.0      400,0       600.0    200.0   1,400.0 35.0        490.0
LIVESTDCK CENTERS                          UNIT           78-150      11    156.0       678.0      600.0           -        -    1,434.0 35.0       501.9
BREEDING STATIONS                           UNIT           55-60      15         -      345.0      290.0       120.0   120.0       975.0 35.0       306.3
ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION CENTERS             UNIT             200        1        -          -      200.0           -        -      200.0 35,0        70.0
WORM  CENTERS, DEVELOPMENT CENTERS          UNIT         100-300       7         -       90.0    1,250.0        60.0        -    1,400.0 35,0       490.0
WORKSHOPS, STORES, INPUT CENTERS, SHEDS    UNIT          37.5-90       3         -          -           -      133.9     57.4       191.3 35.0       66.9
Sub-Total BUILDING CONSTRUCTION                                               29005.6  11b489.0    69600.4    6f283.9  1,336.4  27,715.3 35,0   9,700.3
Ph4sical Contingencies                                                 -    300.8    1,723.4       990.1       942.6    200.5    4,157.3 35.0    1,455.1
Price Contingencies                                                    -    241.0    2,688.9    2,269.6   2,849.4   758.8  t8907.7 29.0    29551.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                             2,547.5  15,901.3   9,860.0   10,075.9  29295.6  40,680.3 33.7   13,706.4
Taxes                                                                   -    585.9    34657.3    2,267.8   2,317.5    528.0    9,356.5  0.0            0.0
Foreign Exchanre                                                        -    873.1    5,388.8    3,320.0   3,365.7    758.7   13,706.4  0.0            0.0



- 67 -
}.INGDCll CF M!OROCCO
STAFF  APPRAI3,5L  PEPOR. OF THtE
SMLALL AND  I DIM SCALE  IRRIGATION  PROJECT                                        ANNEX   4
Sumi7rary  Cost Estimates                                                  Page  2
and Schedule et Expenditur!s
Base Costs                             Lcriin Excstnse
No. of                   -----                       
Unit     Unit Cost    Units    1983       1984        1985       1986       1987     Total       I      Aaount
t5HO )- - ~(D8000  ) -                                               - -          (DBOIOGO)
h. EIUIP9ENT
ELECTRC(WIICAL EQUIPIENT                     I       1,071-8,660       3        -      963.9    49424.5   10,371.0  29589.6  18,349.0  65.0   11,926.9
HYDR0AZECHANICAL EQUIPMENT                   I           1-5,145     111        -       49B.9    2,524.6    29719.0  2,165.5   7,906.0  65,0    5sI40.2
MOBILE SPRINKLERS AND PIPES                  Z             1,294       1        -    1.035.2       256.8          -        -    1,294.0  65.0       841.1
HYDRANTS                                     I               270       1        -       243.0       27.0          -        -       270.0  65.0      175.5
Ot6 EQUIPKENT                                T            50-510      15        -           -          -    3t115,0    775m     3v890,0  65.0    2,520,5
NORK, DEVELOPMENT CENTER EDUIPMENT           1               160       8        -       4BO.0      640.0      160.0        -    1.280,0  60.0       768.0
ADMINISTRATIVE EQUIPMENT                     T            30-100       2        -       70.0        40.0       20.0        -       130.0  50.0       65.0
EXTENSION EWUIPMENT                          I                10      11        -       30.0        50.0       20.0     10.0       110.0  60.0       66.0
DEMONSTRATION EQUIPMENT                      I                 5      18        -       20.0        30.0       35.0      5.0       90.0  60.0        54.0
LIVESTOCK CENTER EQUIPMENT                   I             10-20      15     20.0       130.0      120.0          -        -       270.0  60.0      162.0
ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION EQUIPMENT            I             4-300       8        -        4,0       308.0        8.0      8.0      328.0  60.0       196.8
NILK COLLECTION CENTER EQUIPMENT             I               120       7        -      120.0       240.0      360.0    120.0      840,0  60.0       504.0
OTHER LIV. I A6R. EQUIPMENT                  I                20       1        -        20.0          -          -        -       20.0  60.0        12.0
Sub-Total EQUJIPMENT                                                            20.0    39615.0    8,662.9   16,808.0  5,673.1   34,779.0  64.5   22,440.0
Ph.sical Continsencies                                                 -      2.0       361.5      866.3    1,600.8    567.3    3,477.9  64.5    2i244.0
Price Contingencies                                                    -      1.9       664.0   2,391.4   6,121.2  26563.9  119742.3  64.5   7,570,0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                               23.9    4,640.5   11,920.6  249610.0  88804.3  49,9997.2  64.5  32,254.0
Taxes                                                                  -      8.4    1,615.0    4,166.6    8,610.5  3.081.5   17,481.9   0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                       -     14.3    2,947.0    7,637.0   15,945.2  5,710.5   32,254,0   6.0          0.0
E. BREEDING ANIMALS                           UNIT                9      30        -        54.0      108.0       72.0     36.0       270.0  20.0       54.0
Phssical Contineecies                                                  -        -        5.4        10.8        7.2      3.6       27.0  20.0         5.4
Price Contongeicxes                                                    -        -        13.0       37.9       33.3     20.9       105.2  15.6       16.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                  -        72.4      156.7      112.5     60.5       402.2  16.8       75.8
Taxes                                                                  -        -        9.4        20.4       14.6      7.9       52.3   0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                       -        -        13.8       29.7       21.1      11.2       75.G   0.0        0.0
F. VEHICLES
LIGHT CARS                                 UNIT               33      43    231.0       429.0      528.0      165.0     66.0   10419.0  45.0        638.5
INTERMEDIATE CARS                          UNIT             46.5       4    139.5           -       46.5          -        -       186.0  45.0       83.7
FOUR-UHEEL DRIVE                           UNIT             75.3      11    527.1      301.2           -          -        -       828.3  45.0      372.7
MOTORCYCLES                                UNIT                4     116     20.0        36.0       96.0      128.0    184.0       464.0  45.0      208.8
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                             917.6       766.2      670.5      293.0   250.0   2,897.3  45.0    1i303.8
Physical Contingencies                                                 -     91.8       76.6        67.0       29.3     25.0       289.7  45.0      130.4
Price Contingencies                                                    -     97.5       160.4      208.0      120.0    127.9       713.8  39.4      261.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                            1,106.9    1,003.2       945.5      442.3    402.9    3900.8  44.0    1,715.6
Taxes                                                                  -    332.1      301.0       263.7      132.7    120.9   1,170.2   0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                       -    491.3       442.0      414.8      193.0    174,6    1,715.6   0.0         0.0
6. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
SHORT-TERM TECH. ASSISTANCE              NAN-MONTH            59      15    354.0      531.0           -          -        -       885.0  85.0      752.2
LONG-TERN TECH. ASSISTANCE               NAN-MONTH            49      84        -      882.0    2,050.0    1,176.0         -    4,l16.0  85.0    3,498.6
Suob-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                354.0    1P413.0    2,058.0    1,176.0         -    5POO1.0  65.0    4,250.9
Phasical Contingencies                                                 -     35.4       141.3      205.8      117.6        -       500.1  85.0      425.1
Price Continsencies                                                    -     32.7      263.0       576.6      436.2        -    1,308.5  83.3    1,089.5
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                              422.1   1817.3    2,640.4    10729.6          -    6.809.6  84.7    5,765.5
Taxes                                                                  -     42.2       181.7      284.0      173.0        -       681.0   0.0        0.0
Foreisn Exchange                                                       -    358.0    1,539.6    2,404.7    1463.2          -    5,765.5   0.0         0.0
H. STUDIES AND TRAINING
STUDIES                                  MAN-MONT    0.15-4,500      926  3,988.4    3,427.6   1,184.0            -        -    6W600.0  50.0    4,300.0
LOCAL TRAINING                            MAN-MONT           1-4      B0     12.0        12.0       36.0       50.0     30.0       140.0  15.0       21.0
OVERSEAS TRAINING                        MAN-MONT             16      35        -      224.0       224.0      112.0        -      560.0  75.0       420.0
Sub-Total STUDIES AND TRAINING                                              4N000.4    3,663.6    19444.0        162.0    30.0   9,300.0  51.0    49741.0
Physical Contingencies                                                 -    400,0       366.4      144.4       16.2      3.0       930.0  51.0      474.1
Price Contingencies                                                    -    435.4      780.0       453.7       68.0    17.6    1,754.9  43.7        767.2
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                            4,635.,   4,810.0    2P042.1        246.2    50.6  l1984.9  49.9    5P982.3
Taxes                                                                  -    723.2      675.4       251.4          -        -    1,649.9   0.0         0.0
Foreisn Exchdane                                                       -  2,374.B    2,414.5   1,052.2        133.9      7.0   5,982.3   0.0          0.0



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Summary Cost Estimates
and Schedule of Expenditures
Base Costs                            Fot sn Excha%ge
No. of     c     -     c                                                    o
Unit    Unit Cost  - Units   1983         1984        1985       1986      1987      Total      I     Aacunt
Ulivuu               ------(DHOOO)                                                         -(DHOOO)
1. t-F AR  INYESTS-DTS
CROP lEVELOPIT INESTtENT                  DH 000           1-10     287         -       20.0       43.0      109.6   479.3       651.9  40.0       260.8
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENT          DH 000         3,25-7      408        -          -       40.5      324.8  1,673.3   24038.5 20.0         407.7
INCREHENTAL SHORT-TERM INPUTS             OH 000              1  2,938         -        16.0       99.3      676.6  2o146.0    24938.0  50.0   1.469.0
Sub-Total ONFARN INVESTMENTS                                                      -        36.0      182.8    1,111.0  4t298.6   5,628.4  38.0   2,137.4
Phvsical Continsencies                                                -         -        5.4       27.4      166.7   644.8       844.3  38.0       320.6
Price Contingencies                                                   -        -         8.1       61.4      494.0  2,425.3    29988.8  31.8       949.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                  -       49.5      271.7    1,771.6  7,368.6    9.461.4  36.0   3,407.8
Taxes                                                                  -        -       11.0       55.5      354.5  1,359.8    1,780.8   0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                      -        -        21.4      107.7      684.2  2.594.4    3P407.8   0.0         0.0
Total IN ESTMENT COSTS                                                         17,435.0  90,968.9  123,518.2   96.933.6 37,513.2  366.368.9  44.2  161,977.3
Physical Contingencies                                                   -  2,350.7   13,169.7  17,880.6  13,614.5  5,327.5  52,343.0  43.3  229657.1
Price Contingencies                                                      -  1,974.1  20,144.7  40.323.8  41.115.0 20.067.5  123,625.1  38.8  47,982.0
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                 21,759.7  124,283.4  181,722.6  151,663.1 62,908.3  542,337.0  42.9. 232,616.4
Taxes                                                                    -  5.344.0  33,570.8   50,539.1   43,352.0 17,414.6  150w220.6   0.0           0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                          -  9,161.2  52,712.2   77,029.4  67,118.9 26.594.8  232,616.4   0.0           0.0
II. RECURENT COSTS
A. SALARIES AND ALLOWNCES
ENGINEERS                               MN-YEARS          45.6      49    228.0       410.4      501.6      547.2   547.2   2,234.4   0.0           0.0
TECHNICAL ASSOCIATES                    MAN-YEARS         28.5    205    285.0        684.0   1,168.5    1,710.0  19995.0    59842.5   0.0          0.0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANTS                    MAN-YEARS         19.5    179    175.5        429.0      760.5      994.5  1,131.0    3.490.5   0.0         0.0
SKILLED WORKERS                         MA-YEARS          13.7      83        -           -      109.6      369.9   657.6   1,137.1   0.0           0.0
Sub-Total SALARIES AND ALLOWONCES                                            688.5   1,523.4    29540.2   3,621.6  4,330.8   12,704.5   0.0           0.0
Price Contingencies                                                  -      85.1      358.5      863.9   1,619.9  2,438.6    5r366.0   0.0          0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                             773.6    1,881.9   3,404.1    5.241.5  6,769.4  1BP070.5   0.0           0.0
Taxes                                                                 -     77.4      188.2      340.4      524.2   676.9   1,807.0   0.0           0.0
B. DIM CIVIL WRKS
OIM IRRIGATION CIVIL DORKS               DH 000              1   2,598         -          -      107.0      614.0  1P877.0   2,599.0  35.0        909.3
DIN BUILDINGS                            OH 000              1      165        -          -        7.0       50.0   108.0        165.0  35.0       57.8
Sub-Total ODI  CIVIL WORKS                                                        -          -      114.0      664.0  1,985.0    2763.0  35.0        967.1
Physical Contingencies                                                -        -          -       17.1       99.6   297.8        414.5  35.0      145.1
Price Contingencies                                                  -         -          -       39.4      302.6  1,133.0   1,475.1  29.0        427.9
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                 -          -      170.5    1.066.2  3.415.8   4,652.5  33.1    1,540.0
Taxes                                                                 -        -          -       34.1      213.2   683.2        930.5   0.0        0.0
Foreign Excharge                                                     -         -          -       57.3      355.6  1,127.0    1,540.0   0.0         0.0
C. OSt EQUIPMENT
OtI IRRIGATION EQUIPMENT                 DH 000              1    292          -          -          -       63.0   229.0       292.0  55.0       160.6
OSM MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT                OH 000              1    848         -           -          -      283.0   565.0       848.0  50.0       424.0
IlM AGR. EQUIPMENT                       DH 000              1      39         -          -        3.0       10.0    26.0         39.0  60.0       23.4
DIM LIVESTOCK EQUIPMENT                  DH 000              1      49         -          -        4.0       14.0    31.0        49.0  60.0        29.4
Sub-Total DIN EQUIPMENT                                                           -          -        7.0      370.0   951.0    1,228.0  51.9        637.4
Phasical Continrencies                                               -        -           -        0.7       37.0    85.1       122.8  51.9        63.7
Price Contingencies                                                            -          -        2.0      146.9   420.4        569.3  47.5      270.4
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                 -          -        9.7      553.9  1,356.5   1,920.1  50.6        971.5
Taxes                                                                -        -           -        3.4      168.0   411.4       582.7   0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchanse                                                     -        -           -        5.8      278.9   686.8       971.5   0.0         0.0



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SMALL AND IIEDIt'M  SCALE  IRRIGATION  PROJECT
Sumnary Cost Estimates3
and Schedule of Expenditures
Base Costs                            Fo         carI
No. Ot
Unit    Unit Cost   Units    1983          1984       1985        1986       1987     Total      I      kvmt
-0Da -(DHOOO) --                                                        (DHOOO)
D. ENERY FM  PUNPINI
EMMRY FM  PWINS                           IN 00G              I   1,844         -          -        33.0      240.0  195710      1,844.0 60.0    19106.4
Sub-Total ENERGY FOR PUNPING                                                       -                   33.0      240.0  1,571.0    11844.0 60.0    P10W..
Price Contingencies                                                    -        -          -         8.2       79.4    645.0       732.6 60.0       439.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGEKIES                                                   -           -       41.2      319.4  2.216.0    2.576.6  60.0    16546.0
Taxes                                                                  -        -                   16.5      127.7    886.4    1,030.6  0.0          0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                       -        -          -        24.7      191.6  1.329.6    1.546.0  0.0          0.0
E. OM VEHICLES
LIGHT CAR ODI                              UNIT            5.65      120     22.6       79.1       146.9      192.1    237.3       679.0  40.0      271t2
INTERN. CAR Olh                            UNIT             8.4       17     16.8       25.2        33.6       33.6     33.6       142.9  40.0       57.1
FOUR-jHEEL DRIVE OSN                       LNIT           17.27       47     86.4      155.4      10.0      l10.0   10.0         811.7  40.0      324,7
KOTORCUCLES GI1                            UNIT             1.46     191      4.4       14.,        39.4       78.8    141.6       279.9  40.0      111.5
Sub-Total OUi VEHICLES                                                         130.1      274.3       409.9      494.5    602.5    I,911.4  40.0       764.5
Phvsical Contingencies                                                 -     13.0       27.4        41.0       49.5     60.2       191.1  40.0       76,5
Price Contingencies                                                    -     14.5       59.7       131.6      209.5    319.3       734.6 34.1       250.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                              157.6      361.a       582.5      753.5    982.0    2,837.1  38.5    1,091.1
Taxes                                                                  -     39.4       90,4       145.6      188.4   245.5        709.3   0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                       -     61.9      140.7       225.4      289.5    373.9    1,091.5   0.0         0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                              81896    1797.7    3,104.1    5,390.1  9,340.3   209450.9  17,0    3P475.4
Phasical Contingencies                                                     -     13.0       27.4        58.3      196.1    443.1       728.4  39.2      25.53
Price Contingencies                                                        -     "996       418.3    19045.1    2,358.3  4,956.2    8,877.5  15.6    1,3.3
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                      931.2    29243,4    4,208.0    7P934,5 14,739.6   30,056.8  17.1    5,148.9
_  __   _______   _       _   == _-_==                    __= 
Taxes                                                                      -    116.8      278.6       540.0    1,221.5  2,903.4    5,060.2   0.0         0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                           -     61.9      140.7       313.2    1,115.7  3,517.3    5,148.9   0.0         0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                             18,253.6   92,766.6  1269622,3  102,323.7 46853,5  386819.8  42.8  165,452A7
Phasical Contingencies                                                      -  2,363,7   13,197.2   17,939.3   13,800,5  5,770.6   53F071,4  43.2   22,942.4
Price Contingencies                                                         -  2,073.7   20,563.0   41,368.9   43,473.3 25,023.7  132,502.7  37.3  49,370.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                              22,691.0  126,526.8  185,930.6  159,597.6 77,647.9  572,393.8  41.5  23707654
Taxes                                                                       -  5,460.8   33,849.4   51,079.1   44573.5 20,318.0  155,280.8   0.0            0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                            - 9,223.1   52,852.8   77t342.7   68,234.6 30,112.1  237,765.4   0.0            0.0
December 15. 1982  10:46



- 70  -                                   ANNEX  5
Table  (a)
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL RE?ORT OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Development Support Services/Service d'Appui du D4veloppement Agricole
Souss     Sebou  Chichaoua    Ghiss   Jemas           Total
Sahim
--  --…Units/Unit ns--_---__-_
Support Service                                                                                   Infrastructure Service d'Appui
Construction
CMV, CT                           I          1                                         2          CMV, CT
S/CMV, S/CT /a                    3                                                    3         S/CMV, S/CT /a
Renjbi7 ication of S/CMV          2                                                    2          R4habilitation de S/CMV
Ilouses - Engineer                2                      l                             3          Logeient - Ingenieur
- Excension agents       20         10           5          4       1         40                      Agents de
vulgarisation
Additional staff                                                                                  Besoin en Personnel Suppl4mentaire
Engineer                          2                      1                             3          Ingenieur
Agent                            20         10           5         4        1         40          Adjoint technique vulgarisation
Vehicles                                                                                          Vehicules
Cars                              2          4           I         1                   8          Autoobiles
Four-wheel drive                  2                                                    2         Traction avant/arriare
Motorcycles                      20         10           5         4        1         40          Mococyclettes
Equipment                                                                                         Equipement
Extension equipment (sets)          5          2           2          1       1         11          Equipement de vulgarisation
Demonstration equipment (sets)   10            7           4          2       1         24          Equipement de d8monstration
Work center equipment               3          1           1          1       1          7          Equipement des centres de travaux
/a  CMV - Development Center (Centre de Mise en Valeur)
CT - Work Center (Centre Travaux)
S/ - Sub Center
National Level Support
1.  Technical Unit, Department of Crop Production
Small technical subject matter specialist group (2-3 engineers, technical assisetants) to develop techniques and
broad extension messages.
2. Consultants and Studies
(a)  Crop watering techniques; 15 man/month.
(b)  Extension planning;         12 man/month.
(c) Small scale farm equipment study; 3 man/month.
3. Study Tours
5 Moroccan extension trainers; 3 months each.
1650 p.5



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Livestock Component Support Services/
Servlce d'Appul d'ElIevage
Middle                        Jemaa
Souss   Sebou    Chichaoua   Ghiss   Sahim    Total
Unit/Unite ---------------------
Support Service Construction
Livestock Centers                     4        4                                       8       Centres d'Elevage
Livestock Subcenters                                     1           1        1        3       Sous-centres d'Elevage
Artificial Insemination Center         1                                               1       Centre d'Insemination artif.
Natural Breeding Stations             10       4                     1                15       Stationsde Monte
Milk Collection Centers               5                   1                   1        6       Centres de Collecte du Lait
Houses - Engineer                     2                                                2       Logements - Ing6nieur
Houses - Technician                  16        8         3           4        2       33       Logements - Technicien
Incremental Staff Requirements                                                                   Besoins en Personnel Suppldm.
Engineers                              2                                               2       Ingenieur
Technical Assoc. Extension            4        2                                       6       Adj. Technique Vulgarisation
Technical Assoc. Artif. Insem.         4       4          1          1        1       11       Adj. Technique Insem. Artif.
Technical Assist. Animal Health       4                              2        1        7       Agent Tech. Sante des Animaux
Technical Assist. Breeding Station  10         4                              1       15       Agent Tech. Station Monte
Technical Assist. Milk Collection                                                              Agent Tech. Centre Collecte
Center                              5                                       1        6         de Lait
fD X



- 72 -
ANNEX 5
Table (c)
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Land Use/Occupation des Sols
Souss           Sebou           Chichaous           Chios        Jemas Sahim          Total
Area      S      Area b           Area      S       Area    S       Area      I       Area    I
(ha)             (ha)             (ha)              (ha)            (ha)              (ha)
Estimated Land Use Before Project/Occupation des Sol. Estio6e avant Projet
Cereals:                                                                                                                                Cdr&ales:
Wheat                    2,940      30      2,870    59         300   16        200  22         210      51      6,520   37             Ble
Barley                       -                  -               650   34        250  27           -                900    5             Orge
maize                      280       3          -     _         515   27         190  21        180      44      1.165    6.5            ai
Sub-total              3,220      33     2,870      59     1,465   77         640  70         390      95     8,585   48.5              Sous-total
Grain legumes                    -               800    16           -              130  14         20       5        950    5.5        Ldgumineuses
Vegetable:                                                                                                                              Maraichage:
Winter                       -                  -               125    7          90  10          -                215    1             River
Sumer                      260       3        130      3        110    6        160  17           -                660    3.5           Ete
Sub-total                260       3        130      3       235   11         250  27                            875    4.5             Sous-total
Forage:                                                                                                                                 Fourragires:
Winter                       -                  -               105    5        250  27           -                355    2             River
Sumer                        -                  -                 -               -               -                  -                  Ete
Alfalfa                    440       5          -                35    2           -              -                475    2.5           Lucerne
Sub-total                440       5                          140    7        250  27                            830    4.5             Sous-total
Fallow                      3,370      35        760    16           -                -            180      44      4,310   24          Jachere
Orchards:                                                                                                                               Vergers:
Olives                   2,810      29          -               555   27           -              -              3,365   19             Olives
Citrus                      90       1        440      9          -                -              -                530    3             Agrumes
Other                         -                 -               130    9           -              -                130    1             Autre
2,900      30       440      9        685   36                                         4,025   23                Sous-total
Total used                  6,820              4,240             2,525            1,270            410             15,265               Totale Utilisde
Irrigable area /1           9,650              4,870             1,900              920            410             17,750               Superficie Irrigable
Harvest Intensity /2                   75                87              135            138                100         89               Intensitt
Proposed Land Use with Project/Occupation des Sols Propos6e avec Projet
Cerela:                                                                                                                                 Ueriales:
Wheat                    2,725      28        515    11         390   20.5      230  25         145      35      4,005   23             Big
Barley                       -                  -               310   16.5         -              1                310    1.5           Orge
Maize                    1.650      17        _       _         390   20.5      230  25         100      24      2,370   13.5           Mai$
Sub-total              4,375      45        515    11      1,090   57.5       460  50         245      59      6,685   38               Sous-total
Grain legumes                    -                                                  230  25          -                230    1          LUgumineuses
Vegetable:                                                                                                                              maraic.nge;
Winter                     565       6          -               175    9         230  25        100      24      1,070    6.5           River
Sumer                    1,085      11        260      5        260   13.5       170  25         60      15      1,895   10             Zte
Sub-total              1,650      17        260      5       435   22.5       400  50         160      39      2,965   16.5             Sous-total
Forage:                                                                                                                                 Fourragtres:
Winter                   1,080      11      1,040    21         135    7         230  25         45      11      2.530   14             Hiver
Summer                       -              1,300    27           -              230  25         45      11      1,575    9             Ete
Alfalfa                    945      10      1.045    21         170    9           -             60      15      2,200   12              Luaerne
Sub-total              2,025      21      3,385    69         305   16        460  50         150      37      6,325   35               Sous-total
Sugar beet                       -             1,040    21           -                -             60      15      1,100    6          Setterave sucrihra
Fallow                           -                 -                 -                                -                  -              Jachare
Orchards:                                                                                                                               Vergers:
Olives                   2,810      29          -               555   29           -              -              3,365   19             Olives
Citrus                      90       1        440      9          -                -              -                530    3             Agrums
Other                         -               790    16         165    9           -               -               955    5.5           Autre
Sub-total              2,900      30      1,230    25         720   30                                         4,850   27.5             Sous-total
Total used                 10,950              6,430             2,550            1,550             615            22,155               Totsle Utilis6e
Irrigable area              9,650              4,870             1,900              920            410             17,750               Superficie Irrigable
Harvest intensity                     123               153              143            168                165              137         Intensitd
/1  Irrigable (or potential irrigable) - total used - summer crops and fallow.
12 Harvest intensity includes alfalfa x 2 to account for Rultiple cuts.
1569E



- 73 -
ANNEX 5
Table (d)
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF l'HE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Yields/Rendements
(tons/ha)/(tonnes/ha)
Middle                            Jemaa
Souss    Sebou    Chichaoua    Ghiss    Sahim    Average
Crop Yields before Project/Rendement avant Projet
Cereals:                                                                               Cereales
Wheat           .9       1.4          .9          1.3        .7        1.1             Ble
Barley         -         -           1.2           .5       -          1.0             Orge
Maize           .8       -            .8          1.6        .6         .9             Mais
Grain legumes    -           .8         -              .7        .5        .8          Ldgumineuses
Vegetable:                                                                             Maraichage
Winter         -         -          17           15         -         16               Hiver
Summer        14        24          18           18         -         17.5             Ete
Forage:                                                                                Fourrages
Winter         -         -          24           20         -         21               Hiver
Lucerne       35         -          25            -         -         34               Luzerne
Orchards                                                                               Vergers
Olives          .24      -           1.2          -         -           .4             Olives
Citrus        20        15           -            -         -         16               Agrumes
Other                    -           3            -         -          3               Autre
Projected Yields with Project/Rendements Prevus avec Projet
Cereals:                                                                               Cdrgales:
Wheat          2.9       3.9         2.5          3.2       4          3               Ble
Barley         -         -           2.8          -         -          2.8             Orge
Maize          3.3       -           3            3.6       4          3.3             Mais
Grain legumes    -          -           -        1.5/13 /a    -         1.5/13         Lggumineuses
Vegetable:                                                                             Maralchage
Winter        26         -          24           28        24         26               Hiver
Summer        28        36          24           30        29         28               Etg
Forage:                                                                                Fourrages
Winter        45        40          42           47        50         43               Hiver
Summer         -        40           -           38        40         40               Ete
Lucerne       62        65          60            -        65         63               Luzerne
Sugar Beet        -        45           -            -        45         45            Betterave
sucriere
Orchards:                                                                              Vergers
Olives         2.2       -           4            -         -          2.7             Olives
Citrus        30        20           -            -         -         22               Agrumes
Other          -        20           9            -                   18               Autre
/a Green/Legumineuses en vert
1569E/mls



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop and Livestock Incremental Production at Full Development/(in tons)
Production Animale et Vegetale additionnelle en croisiere/(en tonnes)
Ghiss             Chichaoua                 Souss               Middle Sebou              Jemaa Sahim              Total
Bread Wheat                         470  )               262  )                4,095 )              2,035 )                      437 )               7,299
)                   )                       )                   )                           )                     )
Durum Wheat                           -  )345            446  )813              1,155 ) 5,250    - 3,970 )- 1,935                  - ) 437         - 2,369  ) 4,910
)                   )                       )                   )                           )                     )
Barley                            - 125  )               105  )                     - )                -  )                        - )                - 20
Maize Grain                         526                  763                   5,269                                             300                 6,858
Legumes
.dry                                56                   -                        -                 -641                         -9                 -594
.green                           1,677                   -                        -                    -                          -                 1,677
Olives                                -                1,737                   6,191                    -                          -                 7,928
Fruits (apples, pears)                -                1,040                        -              15,750                          -                16,790
Citrus                                                                           892                2,187                          -                 3,079
Summer vegetables a/              2,293               4,384                   26,583                6,397                      1,670               41,326
Winter vegetables b/              5,055                2,048                  14,624                    -                      2,443                24,170
Sugar beets                           -                    -                       -              46,899                       2,592               49,491
Milk (in OOO'l)                   1,949                  404                  11,257               17,780                        818                32,208
Beef Meat c/                        102                   17                     559                  990                         42                 1,710
Sheep Meat c/                        12                   59                     -33                  186                         10                   234
Wool                                   1                   5                     -19                   17                            .6                  4.6
a/ Tomatoes, Pepper, Melon                                  a/ Tomates, Poivron, Melons
b/ Potatoes, Roots                                          b/ Pomme de terre, carrotes, navets
c/ Liveweight                                               c/ Poids vif.
T1558E p. 24)



- 75 -                                 Annex 6
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                          Cumulative Disbursements
and Semester Ending                                            at End of Semester
---- (IS$ million) -----
FY84
December 31, 1983                                                  0.3
June 30, 1984                                                      2.8
FY85
December 31, 1984                                                  4.3
June 30, 1985                                                      6.7
FY86
December 31, 1985                                                 10.5
June 30, 1986                                                     16.1
FY87
December 31, 1986                                                 22.3
June 30, 1987                                                     27.5
FY88
December 31, 1987                                                 32.2
June 30, 1988                                                     36.1
FY89
December 31, 1988                                                 39.5
June 30, 1989                                                     42.0
1539E/p9



- 76-                                                                      ANNEX 7
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization Chart
MINISTRY (RAaAT)
Mrntster of
Agriculture &
Agrarian ReaFrm
Project Coordinrtlon CommItee
MAA        DOrector d Rural Equiprment Cheaiman
Directr d Crop Proeuction
Director of Lvestack Development
Director at Extwaon & Agrarian Reoam
O______________                                                 Drector a Plenning & Economic Affta
Other O recitarates                         _  _  -  -   _             ME         Director of Water Resources Develapment
Directar  Higihwcrys
MlI       Directar o RurA Affairs
MF        Representatve
CNCA      Repreentatve
ONE       RepresentrtVhe
Directorate d
Rural Equipment        -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -
(Protect Director)
I                                                                         .                                                                  I
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lnr,d ImnooverrnentI
I                              General StUdleS            Administrative           Rural Deveiopment            & Agricultural 
I                        ~~~~~~~         ~         ~~Service  ServIce       Dlosion (DPA`s)         WDMerReourceIIMVs)
I                                                                                                                                    I       I       
r4…------------__   |                                                                                                   Otther Serces
I                                                                                        SMSI *              Strecev    Cornnoine    I      |
|   I                                                                                   Servce                   Construction               |
|                           Othff Units   i
I  ______    Central Management              Re~~~~~pgionaRginl                                    RegionalI
--         Unit at Project                                        Reg~~~oitcingMoitonal      Iofcxn
I    F                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Unit  Unit  Ur
L- --     -1 rF-  - ---- -   - -1-
PROVNCIALOR        PL   |                         DPA-  S .                                                                      ORMVVAe   * 
REGIONAL    l        _  _  _  _  _          (Sub-qoroeft       |          *             l  |                                  (Sutb-pralect
HEADQUARTERS  |                                 O Drector)                     Ohe                                                Diriectar)                                Other
I                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Servces  II  _ _  _     _     _    _
Rural          ~~~~Agricultural                                 Rural               AgricultUral                omarn                  Letc
L      uiment             Development              LNsokEquipment                              Development                Oeain
Service                Service               Service                Servce                 ServICeSre                                      -qvice
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" L  W L   j <                                        3
SMSi-                 Vanous                Various      |rigation                                                                        Operatin
Unit                  Units -                Units                                                                 ecU| nit                  Unit
SUB-PROJECT
(PERIMEtER)             Field Office         WorkCenrer&
Crosuction                                    Agrcultural
Consm)ction                     ~~~~~~Developnen
offIce                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~Offlice
SMSI = Small and Mredium Scale Irrigation
*0.R,M.VA = Regional Oftice trAgricultural Deveoprnent
*--DPA = Provincial Directorate of Agriculture
---Functonal RelationshiP Aprcultural
CenrerB(CMV)           
Waid Sank-2.5541



- 77                                  ANNEX 8
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
(a) On-Farm Water Management Technical Assistance Program
1.       Crop watering techniques in the three existing subzones of the
project are less efficient than they could be in terms of:- dose and timing;
preparation of surfaces; inlet structures. It is expected that the same
problems will arise within the Middle Sebou subzcnes which would be created by
the Project. It is proposed to develop a watering program for each subzone
based on the quantity of water available the pattern of availability and the
proposed cropping pattern. The optimal watering strategy for these crops
would be adjusted for the constraints to give the best available strategy.
Techniques would be defined to give the best spread of water in the plot for
each crop relative to the desirable agronomy and appropriate limited draft
implements would be assembled or developed to achieve these techniques.
Appropriate low cost inlet structures would be developed.
2.       Technical assistance would be essential to develop these areas.  In
addition the technical assistance would be required to develop these
understandings in the extension staff who will be assigned to those perimeters.
3.       A Technical assistance program would be developed by the DERs Center
for Research for Irrigation Technique with the following responsibilities:-
(1) study the problem in each subzone separately and define the best
available watering strategy for each proposed crop;
(2)  report on the scope of improvement that could be obtained, and the
techniques and equipment required to improve the situation;
(3) develop and demonstrate these techniques and equipment;
(4) prepare a training manual for extension agents and conduct training
sessions.
4.       Timing and Duration:  The assistance should start in the third year
of the project to take full advantage of the development of hydraulic
infrastructure but still leave enough time for the assistance to be completed
before the end of the project, and have some impact. As the assistance is to
be provided by a Moroccan Government research group, preliminary work should
be carried out before the third year.
(b) Extension Planning Consultant
1.       Although effective extension is essential for this Project to succeed
planning of the extension component takes into account the ongoing development
of national extension programs and care has been taken not to compromise
this. The emphasis has been given to increasing the density of agents freeing



-78 -                            ANNEX 8
Page 2
them from other responsibility, providing them with adequate means to work and
developing a backstopping support and management for them. A clear weakness
is their lack of training specifically in irrigated crop and pasture
production and appropriate methods of extension to go with those techniques,
and the farm structures. For this reason the Project provides for technical
assistance of 6 man-months to provide a basis for improving this situation.
2.       The technical assistance would comprise one consultant for a period
of 12 months with the following responsibilities:-
(1) Examine the 5 subzones to understand the level of sophistication of
the necessary production processes and the crop production proposals.
(2)  Address specifically the extension messages for each of the crops
proposed, in each subzone and prepare the written material.
(3) Prepare broad proposals to manage the extension actions in the 5
subzones within the framework of the strengthening that is provided
for in the Project, and the national proposals.
(4) Develop a practical approach for the extension agents in each subzone
to use to start up their campaigns.
(5) Conduct training courses preferable at the "Centre National d'Etudes,
Recherche et Vulgarisation" at Meknes with the agents of the 5
perimeters.
(6) Coordinate the overseas short-term training of 2 Moroccan technicians
for whom funds are proposed in the Project, to be future extension
trainees in this area.
3.       Timing:  This action would be undertaken in the second year of the
project so that the agents going into place in the third year and those
already in place, have the advantage of the assistance by the time farmer
participation begins.
4.       Qualifications:  A basic tertiary qualification in agronomy is
essential as is post-graduate training in extension and/or communication
methodology. The consultant would need to demonstrate previous employment in
a similar program and demonstrate that he/she had successful accomplishments.
Being able to communicate in French or Arabic is essential.
(c) Small Scale Farm Equipment Study
1.       Consistent with all the small- and medium-scale irrigation zones in
Morocco and particularly the traditional ones, the scope for conventional
tractors and tractor drawn farm machinery is limited. If the 5 subzones of
the Project are taken as an example more than 70% of the plots are less than
half an hectare so that with the possible exception of pre-season cultivations
the majority of the farm operations will be carried out with animal drawn or
hand carried implements. While some very good implements (plow, cultivator,
harrows) are manufactured in Morocco and other pieces of equipment (backpack
sprayers) are imported there is still great scope to improve these and
increase the range. The study would address this issue.
2.       The study proposed would be expected to take three man-months and
address the following:-



- 79 -                            ANNEX 8
Page 3
(1) make an inventory of types of equipment presently available:-
- animal drawn cultivation and land preparatory equipment;
- hand carried equipment for seed and fertiliser distribution,
weed and pest control;
- irrigation, equipment;
- small motorized equipment.
(2) list areas not adequately covered, indicating the implication of the
lack of coverage;
(3)  propose steps to make good these deficiencies.
3.       Qualifications:  the study person or team should be an agricultural
engineer with extensive experience in farm production at the level of small
farms. It is necessary to have experience with a wide range of small tools
and be well aware of the range of equipment that exists around the world.






IBRD 16646
I?MOROCCO                                                                                                                              0                                                                                        EEBR~&
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                                                           ("Tangerk                              '$-s-'s-a:
PROJETODE DEVELOPPEMiENT DE LA PETITE ET MOYENNE HYDRA ULIQUE AGRICOLE                                                                                           p             ®TuOfl
LOCATION  OF SUBPROJFCTS                                                                                                                                              A oerc , 
L OCAL/ SA T/ON DES SOYS PROJETS                                                                                                                                           Aljt~ iH{                        ®tdo
T--, in --d- f h.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
34-  ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ Pse,iesats                                                                                ,           6,-                      /eit                                    7''             -'7~O1
Coedsl                                        ...-ssoRABAT9                                                                                                          E?         ).4.. 
Ietr..ireo rier p4d.ia--t\~-henise
Coedsl slroths/ in-t/'-"rfrm¾\i r--e                                                      homAi                                                e
Cosabianc£V~¶4DE5BO                                               a 
Tercsi2 eadr  fte ass-                                                                                                                                                            L < §~                     6
34*                      dos~AReMa-a-se  osls,daae  e  -cd-oCacsJ7eir                                                                                                               r(®-
Natlsaessfpoeoalaofarssrssssao                                                                             AA    /Tz 
sea  e pddaosr/a-sdooe  pa/h  esrrco  po-oos s(0ElsIKJadisd                                                             (
(  Foohill ores  hr itersetteetwaterfrom  poogsstrutface                      phommdsa    '~  " kt'                   I   \     ~      s~5                                               
CosEl                                                                    El. iJod-ida -1-ohomi g
A l/l/-d- a/os do 1000 nr/-os-                                                                                          .
Chps/ol- d., - is..                                                 F0,1s ,1 *                                                         ¾.                                 'N                        ' 
CAs,/woo des p-ooc-                                           dF /lO                          Srp,hnM&                      --Aq-
Eosasaoira                                 ,                                0
®2                     kMt~~~~AArrake cE
30-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ž
Mdes 0                                                                                                  '5') 215
0                                                                             Thu sac Oee Ore's~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ni-. lb. -c5sstsoo'sus lura
(I                                                                             '!                                  tss,os  tr.martoocsssaassiar sscsssossaad'.a
s-ogooirSC5~JS''~2'                                                                                     OsadeoeesOseosraosssssssatossla-.nasa, saoatsrr 'sdaaWatraad5h
Kilometers  0  lOG  200                     '¾                              at's   I                                         p                                  ,tcOsetee errtasosr,ra~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-H
50  lOG  lOG         ,r.An                                                                                                                                      .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2PAst4WJaAsfsa-sscao /~~~~~~~~~~~~I,OrVA
-Te-ue~.                                   <                        To       o    /,~sGoulimeosc,tesosmeee
0,                                                                                                                    A L C; E R I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
L(I cRcs sn






I BRD 16651
PP           ~~~~~~~AL C E AA
r. Al H--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--NAAIIEA'AA
In II'PDROCChOftc-AAA
SMALL AND MEDIUMrrn~ SCALEr SIRRGAIOCAOJC
--1- A      2{lCtO-Ip
R,, r
j          dN
/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L]I-   -........
___                          I~~~~~~~~~~~?0ID
i/It I00           0(
K                                                                                               -                 MOROCCO~~~~~~A*
3'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__E






________________________________________________                                                                                                                                                                               3RD 16648~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD664
t    |HIIChmaM el Tohtani                                                                                                /                                                                                <   TO OUEZZAhE                              eForNl9TF 198.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DOSZ55E  rcMoo 09
DA                                                                                                                                                                                                            DIR                 G  l                       3
"/9.        j                 0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NX      _ '5x
(~~ DI                           ,   ,   S   b    -sOdi   .                      AtttS                                                                                                       0   %   D l 7rr sti ce, , ~                                                                               S R   0   4 1 1
e0*                                       5,BAsS                                           <L                                                                                                                 JJCO       'So/nb 
Oo,, d \O .ROICT CE .EVELOPPEMENT CE/A PETITE ETMQIENNE LD PA US LUt AO./COLErr                                                                                                                      YTG
iW ,s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      23n 7)  K   l lP
.,.                                            to?RSReupn soi
fo,mer Soaoisro  /hoRrs
-----WA LGtR Ie   Sa aA)  '  rod
_ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-i _       .h®5eer                                                                               2        3        t                                                                                   5  Fsrrorg slt r.c.o/s
*' _-Il i ae   h, ls o o' o  Ira                                                                         th fohotw   o/, dMa  rs.Y ,n                                                                                                    AgwfL    1de/'eqo-amew v  oeodl ve'a/
r-0050         10          ,G                                                          R2arr
-_..   A Oh RIA    MEDIU  Moo
N                                                                                                                                                                                                   Saooo~$~      S U   P? J5   OsYL-N o5arraroroorha
slas,ssds-ssroa-eo--- -' also ,rrr.23,T,,--s--a-  t                                                                         h
h.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ag-   . arers.lasaOsrSrs






IBRD 16649
MOROCCO                                                                           -                          IN  sPAIN1.. 'DuCRMREE 1985
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                                       3t8  to                                     '''-o or
PROJFT OFc DFVELOPPFEC NT OF LA Pfrirt ETMOYENNF HYDRAUt IQUE AGE/DO_ _ 71ndicorer the territory of the  # Robt 
CHIC HAOUA   SUBPROJECT (1900 ha)                                                                             forme Seonise Soror
SOUS PROCiFT CI/1CH/A0C/A (/900ha)                                                                             (Western Sohr-)
RECASt, ITEM 4 (MEEk Mt/SM NSF~ ~ ~  ~         ~        ~        ~ ~ ~~o'- 1,,M .. k-
REHA31LITATE   N/FW    EXIST NG
LHA91T- AfIA5d/t4CF G lS)A 'VrF.'                                                                                      /    '-.         .b 
B n Freso                                                                   CANARY IS.    i
\rO  hdor.otech  ~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~  ~~  C snaDr 1-el etus / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~ ~~~~, A L G E R IAL AF RI 
____   Erth coe'
\                                       l/rO / aIr;eri/                   *araLeoC/ic C terre                                                                                      j   x 
'I T ,                  ; ,       R i . se.  r1'                                                                                                             
'ipte-                                                                      2N                                                        2-
~NORTH-H-                                                             Sipeo                                                                                                          Nj\
\/roe                                                                       /            ID l a l n!   M AJU R ITAN I A          N
Spriogs                                                                   _                                           MALI 5
~~~,Ž--  N  -s~~g-I~,l  ,  -.,/
,-z              MiM -I,esto-k c-r ter
K>       - ssrC No AORAIAN REFORM COOPERATIVES                                                              Vooreo/v
Tofeosooe/ro  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~    ~          VilIago
C ~   ~       ~      ~      , I'.  ---- --___   Clor-                                            i yet rood                                                                                                           (       r'
~~~~~~~~~  C  N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .$ 
t) ~         ~~      ¾.,    =-  Moelop, $7 
c.,  N TOOLSE  ARE                                                                           ttrotrrm=y                             > iou                                           \' - 
CHICHAOU                                                   /I
AGRAIAN REFOhM~~~~~j~;0                                                 COOERTIE .                                                                                        .r J          -             /         -        Ci\ ,,t< Oc/ hir
\  /   '~~~~~~ ~~~ '  /   falt [llet   \  tt                                                                                       /              | \\!\.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al U
'V x,,,,,,,,,z,,,,,,      ZooooNoosre2                               3                                  1                         /---         .Ait  o
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY               - - - -----                 CoopS        / 2 ve                                                                                                                                 \Ai Totooki
3-   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~---- 
Te/esoToonet                                                I)~A)tT.f
alElilstts~~N--- an-ar-- a-mmhlea 5-7srN-tO/Yr5t{h{{er@lO                                                                                                                                                               / .
a-a---a- ow Mill Cc   Ceo/el                                       I
_,_.                                                                         .                                             _ _____                                                                                                     /_
AGRAIAN REFORM COOPERATIVESar
5", -  ., roeaoe -eerrc en M Wor/i/-Aossst e- /sr-Ntrsesrooc                                                                                            rKI LOMFTFPRS                                                                                 aa
s/slhe re-d-r ofroeh.o-o scirc  rs-h-osrho/eT      -d-der5ooceao/r        a-
eo-dooe-shoo-o eo s/r ro ....oos,oi/ Ž0ro  or/c Woo/i/Book ies
at/oc  o/coerooi c6iaso o she-er roeoorereir--






IBRD 16650
MOROCCO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NOV-MBER 1902
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVEI OPPEAENT tE LA PET/TEET 4MOYENNE HYDRAUL/IOUEAGRICOIE
JEMAA  SAHIM  SUBPROJECT (410ha)                                                                                                                                           Metr 0                                  500                              1000
SOUS PROJ/FT JE/14AA 5AH/M(4/Oha}                                                                                                                      -                       Er' 0                       1000                2000                3000
NEW    EX/ STNO
4 CAPER EEIF EXISTA'TF                                                                                                  -/C <              1
f-1eto dr S,f6
Oo,:i      rt tJep'oaa ens                                               '/                                       a                                                                                     is
A§srn.utOtOol ork'a'rta'                                                               /           A                                         '                                                                      0> h
* aCantedsroovtdvrkctre a gw/ar                                                                                       -?i +>  
Roads                                                  Km                                                    t     b >                                          f       6                                                         > </+r
<aM ass/                    .                                                                                                                                                                                N  f .   '8 ,.    ; />bs :; p"\  
Oaf~~~ coa                                         /                                                          NN'                             /       ,     otoom5o
Sane/d                               ,*L  /               /                                                                                          /                                                                                      I'z/.      ,   
0/at'                                                            <a                                                                  ~-i     /               .                      . 
v r: ; 1 1x < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 Vs. 
ew aS>*f ~~~/  fi T<    t                                                                                                                    IJ .9RA a  /
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.r                                                                _> "Lt r                     '                             .7   35
<;> X f .'\i U d t~~~~~/en f0 Itf  ?%?
5.  ¾                                     .''                       /~~~~~~~~~~-A   .h ,
to'.~~~~~~~~~~~~
;    3i                 t; ,,,                  35t m-r-----                                                                                                                                          ANARY 15  5             -,SfP                        c
',.                                        "0 ,?                                                 .0 'X'~~- ---  AI  ER  A
/                                                                                           's  '              ,.u> ;,J                                                                    '                ..r    /''_             .
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
4' .vgA '. 25                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .'   JoIe5aaCahn
.d                                                                                                                    Th'   /e T@  bf a-PtP It bV.                                                                 '4$   N/   "-    t'A/ttchidrho//n"atonu'ttnate     |\
5                 0                                                                                    nd:r-essh2m munthis IhPdrorrdt/ -thtPltof  -nv'-/a taror                 o aPot  ndoseZ  enror     _   _  t~ -o-ndar'at  |  SeaI    I -
a                                                    /                                                         /t'dtcatettta tarritot-yo_f M  I/to> - -0)RAIa  I






1SRD 16647
/       SPAII       DECEMBER 1982
,.i-/lrse nintsl loriund
Indicates the tesrtRoryo  h    Poo
former Spanish Sohar
(Western S61i-bl~ R(SC    
.J      l~                      CANARY IS. a            /       -
-  0~~~~(~~~/            r ~~     A L GEEI A
OILD    IGLI            U          ~          SL
,~~~~IT CUARAB                                                             -25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                           25-
X F _ MOUSSACT YAZZAHR _ MAURITANIA                                                                                                                               MALI
SIDI                                               C
MOUSSA                  Ttt                                                                                                                                                ________
&~~m                  DAHMER                                                                                                                                                          _______________
(w)MIsSEN               OondLI~                                              tf~ RO                                                                                  SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION PROJECT
t~     o6vS                      _                                            0                                                                .            0PROJET DE DEVFLOPPEMENT DE LA PETITE ET MhOVENNE HIYDRAUL IQUE AGAI/COL E
~~    2/rio         rN/rB/SLIP BRIA                           0                        TAZEMMOURT HSOUSS    SUBPROJ E CT (9650 ha)
U R                                                       ZEMMOURT  -SOUS  PROJIFT SOU55(96,50ha}
TO BE REH-ABILITATET  ANEW     EX STING
vsef  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jA RE/HABWr//R ACREEP R/SA
OULED                  ~~~~~~SEBT EL   5                  iSAItA                       .Liv-stck centers
GUER DN5  f                               f5/    .                                                                                                                                Centres de/evoqe
TEIMA  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~~~~oQ)  a  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S1) ~~~~~Art tic.  --ineination regionalsu--center
- =   ;   _    .  Sss contraog/a na/a nersimnnnnrt,/sc-e//o
>~~~~~~~     5/                                                                                          55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/~~k  cG c-I
' )  C)    ()    CItl. breeding stotion
LI    t-t     Develp-et S.enter
.  Li     a      Centres ie mn se  en va/eo       ,
nJr                            ~~~                                                     ~     ~      ~~i i  '     Sa3  cSien°teres Sn co/se eeocv/eur
f      Sets of robe webs or wells
&ottev,eo de forages av de post
Iroitona irrigat- onScos--ed  rhb oed
-rrditional ..Iigation  ect-horsn -dferte , rerolct)
Secteoas  d/rr/gafsan   t'radcsonnv//e (0000 fe pro-/e)
...  =                                                                                                                        Ad=05oit1l s  ct-ors   needing rehabilitaton (nt uodn erect)
5  10     t5   ~ ~~~~~~~~ILLJIAs/rnsevtssi re/abb/i/er (n   /op-/dans/CpvnjOt
Kitoe~tec~  2        10           15           20
Mdillet V0                 '                                                                                      a      ... bo ndary
.//n/_e,R  i-v   /   /
fb-Oidsea sac en osf rs OrO Wosi5 ghnt5p  The d-nohlv-h l co // -e conven/ence                                       RU v/eve
Oov_earse <Phn nn, -nS  p dv not iply, on tue~ cas h World Ba/k .nd//                                     ______
al/a/n, any6 ivYldo/eoont tm  e lsal~ ototvs or Sn/i trr//tors oromV endoseenen/o                                    Rc.tesd prynvoa/os
aocentoncn OtO//rOOn,///5ss/e/                                                           econ~~- dary ronds
R-otes secondasveo



