Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4692-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100 MILLION
TO
ECUADOR
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
December 1, 1987
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bk recipients only in the performance of
their official dutics. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         Sucre (SI.)
S/.1.00           =   0.S047 US$
US$ 1.00          3   21  SI/.
The US Dollar/Sucre exchange rate has been floatTng since August 1986.  The
official exchange rate reached the above level at the end of November 1987.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AN4D MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)            =            10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)          =            1,000 m = .62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)           =            2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (mt)         =            1,000 kg = 2,200 pounds
1 litre (1)               =            0.26 gallons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BEV           Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda   (Ecuadorian Housing Bank)
BNF           Banco Nacional de Fomento             (National Development Bank)
BCE           Banco Central del Ecuador             (Central Bank of Ecuador)
CD             Certificate of Deposit
CFN            Corporacion Financiera Nacional    (National Development Finance
Institution)
DFI            Development Finance Institution
ENAC           Empresa Nacional de                  (National Entity for
Almacenamiento y                     Storage and Sale of
Comercialization de Productos        Agricultural Products)
FOPINAR       Fondo para la Pequena Industria    (Small Scale Industry Fund)
y la Antesania
FSECAL         Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GOE            Government of Ecuador
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IESS          Instituto Ecuatoriano de              (Ecuadorian Social Security
Seguridad Social                     Institute)
ILO            Int_.;national Labor Office
IMF           International Monetary Fund
MLT            Medium and Long Term Lending
SR            Superintendencia de Bancos            (Superintendency of Banks)
SL,.           Savings and Loan Association
TMC            Tasa Maxima Conr'encional            (Maximum Conventional Rate)
M2            Money and Quasimoney



FOR OMCMiA  USE ONLY
ECUADOR
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJU'3TMENT LOAN
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No
Loan Summary ................................................         iii
I.   THE ECONOMY  ....................................              1
Background ........                                            I,
Recent Macroeconomic Developments         ..                   2
Adjustment Policy Issue .                .........................  3
Sources of External Financing           .        .             4
Ecuador's Relations with the IMF and Commercial
Banks       .................................                 4
Creditworthiness and Bank Exposure        .       .            5
II.   FINANCIAL SECTOR ISSUES          ..........                    5
Dependence on Central Bank Rediscounts       .     .           6
Institutional and Financial Weaknesses      .      .           7
Inadequacy of Long Term Finance          .       .            10
III.   THE GOVERNMENT'S FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT.
PROGRAM ...........................................           12
Macroeconomic Framework              ..                       13
The Government's Financial Reform Program ..........          14
IV. THE PROPOSED OPERATION                ..                        20
History     ..........................................        20
Description .........................................         20
Financial Sector Scenario             ..                      21
Benefits ...........................................         21
Risks     ............................................        24
Loan Implementation                ..                        25
V.   BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY         .      .           26
VI. COLLOBARATION WITH THE IMF               ..                     28
VII.   RECOMMENDATION .....................................          28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Ecuador in June/July 1987. The mission comprised Messrs. T. Hutcheson
(INDFD); M. Carrizosa, J. Parker (LPCIl); M. Thobani (LC1PA); T. Hill
(LEGLC), and J. M. Jimenez (Cons).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrni."-
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autt.snuno,.



- ii -
Text Tables
Table 1: Main Economic Indicators .................         2
Table 2:  Main Financial Sector Indicators.                 7
Table 3:  Indicators of Financial Sector Perfo.mance       22
List of Annexes
Annex 1 Supplementary Tables ...............................        29
Key Macroeconomic Indicators .29
Balance of Payments .30
Status of Bank Group Operations ....................       31
Annex 2 Supplementary Project Data Sheet .33
Annex 3 Government's Statement of Financial Sector Policies         35
Annex 4 Macroeconomic Policy Matrix.                                45
Annex 5 Financial Policy Matrix ............................        46
Annex 6 Technical Assistance Program .52
MAP



ECUADOR
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Republic of Ecuador
Amount:                       US$100 million equivalent
Terms:                        Payable in 17 years, including a grace period
of 4 years at the standard variable interest
rate
Description:                  The proposed loan would support an ongoing
program of financial sector reform. The
following objectives are being pursued by this
program: (i) strengthened financial
institutions (FIs) by improving the regulatory
framework, upgrading the performance of the
Superintendency of Banks and gradually
restoring the capital adequacy of these
institutions; (ii) more efficient
intermediation by restraining the growth of
Central Bank (BCE) rediscounts to FIs and by
linking the interest rate on BCE funded credit
to market determined rates; and (iii)
development of the capital market by improving
the conditions for adjustable rate lending,
capitalization of interest and equity finance.
Benefits:                     The benefits that are expected from the
program include: (i) an increase in -le rate
of economic grtwth, through an improvement in
the allocation of investment and capital; (ii)
a more resilient financial sector through an
improved framework of regulation, supervision
and enforcement and; (iii) a more efficient
financial sector through improved conditions
for competition and financial intermediation.
Risks:                        The principal risk derives from the loan's
timing since it would be implemented durixug
the presidential electoral cycle and a period
of political transition. This could diminish
the Government's ability to maintain market
determined rates, to carry out the measures
agreed under the operation and to maintain an
acceptable macro-economic framework. The



- iv -
program could also face reversal by the next
administration. These risks are minimized by
the strong will demonstrated so far by the
Government to continue its economic and
financial sector reform programs, with the
most sensitive reforms -- floating of interest
and exchange rates -- having survived very
strong challenges. The risk of abrupt policy
reversal is not excessive given the fact that
the reforms undertaken so far have had
demonstrated beneficial effects in economic
performance which have eased the adjustment to
adverse external shocks. Finally, the IMF
stand-by arrangement would be important in
ensuring maintenance of an acceptable policy
framework.
Disbursement:                 The loan would be disbursed in two tranches of
US$50 million each. It is anticipated that
the first tranche would be disbursed upon loan
effectiveness. The second tranciie would be
released subject to satisfactory performance
of the macroeconomic and financial adjustment
program, as determined by a review to be held
witilln six months of loan effectiveness.
Disbursement of the entire loan is expected to
be completed within nine months of loan
effectiveness.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF iCUADOR
FOR A FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
first Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSECAL) to the Republic of Ecuador
for the equivalent of US$100 million. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An Economic Memorandum on Ecuador (Report No. 6592-EC) was
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 14, 1987. A Country brief
was distributed in September 14, 1987. A Bank mission visited Ecuador in
June/July 1987 to appraise the proposed loan and review the economic
situation. The Government's macroeconomic pelicy framework is summarized
in Annex IV. The financial policy program and specific policy actions that
are being suDported by this loan are surmiarized in Annexes V and VI.
Background
3.       Through the 1970's, the economic strategy in Ecuador relied on
import substitution in the manufacturing sector financed by growing
petroleum revenues. Although growth was initially high and substantial
progress was made in social conditions, by the early 1980's it was becoming
increasingly clear that the strategy was unsustainable. The exchange rate
ha.4 become badly overvalued. Tariffs and quantitative restrictions on
imports of finished goods and tariff exonerations on imported inputs gave
high levels of effective protection to favored firms and subsectors.
Petroleum eyploration slowed and production stagnated while highly
subsidized prices of petroleum products internally encouraged rising
consumption of petroleum products and declining exports of crude oil.
Agricultural output sufiered from the policy-induced negative shift in the
internal terms of trade. Imports rose and non-traditional exports made
only limited prGgress.
4.       This policy framework left the economy ill-prepared for a series
of exogenous shocks, most ri:tably the stagnation of the value of exports
and the severe external cred_it constraint that affected the country after
1981. The value of exports stagnated from US$2,913 million in 1981 to an
average of US$2,821 million for the 1982-1986 period, after having grown
vigorously until 1981. Net external disbursements fell from US$1,255
million in 1981 to an average of US$469 millicn for the 1982-1986 period,
also after strong growth up to 1981. This decline in external funding
forced the government to reduce the large public sector deficits of 1981
and 1982 that were financed by part of these resources. As a result of
these shocks, aggregate economic performance faltered. The average rate of
growth in 1982-1986 was only 2.02 compared to 6.12 p.a. in 1975-1981.



- 2 -
Table 1: ECUADOR - MAIIt ECONOMIC INDICATORS. 1980-1986
Est.
Year                    1980     1984      1985     1986   1987
Total Exports (Million US$)             2866.5   2894.8   3295.0   2590.1  2491.3
Net Ext. Disbursements (Million USS)  1051.0    301.0    421.8    709.5   857.6
Growth of GDP (Z)                          4.9      4.2       4.5      2.9    -3.2
Rate of Inflation (X)                     12.8     29.7      28.7     27.4    33.3
Terms of Trade Index (1984=100)          109.1    100.0      96.1     61.7    70.3
Real Exchange Rate Index (1980=100)
Excld. Oil (Trade Weighted)           100.0    127.1    121.6    171.8   173.4
Incld. Oil (Tradc Weighted)           100.0    132.8    127.0    173.7       n.a.
Current Account Bal. (X of GDP)           -6.4     -2.4       1.0     -5.3    -9.2
Public Sector Balance (t of GDP)          -4.5      1.7       1.5     -4.1    -9.3
Public Sector Invest. (D of GDP)          10.0      6.4       7.1      8.6      9.3
Public Sector Saving (Z of GDP)            5.5      8.1       8.6      4.5      0.0
Source: BCE and staff estimates.
n.a..: Not available
Recent Economic Developments
5.       In response to the external shocks of 1982, the Government
initiated an economic adjustment program. It dramatically reduced its
current expenditures and public investment, introduced import controls,
devalued the sucre and rescheduled its external debt. The resulting
contraction o aggregate demand contributed tc slow the rate of growth
after 1981. The present government that took office in August 1984
continued and accelerated the adjustment program. The dual official
exchange rates were unified at the higher of the two previous rates and
theni devalued. This Dermitted the Government to ease import restrictions
and to lift most domestic price controls. Oil export volume increased
substantially and new exploration has begun, with foreign participation. A
public sector surplus was achieved in 1984 and 1985, a unique achievement
in Latin America.
6.       The economy responded well to the government's policy program,
growing by 4.5Z in 1985. Ecuador seemed poised for an accelerated recovery
in 1986 when it was undermined by the sharp fall in petroleum prices.  The
terms of trade index fell from 96.1 in 1985 (1984=100) to 61.7 in 1986.
Faced with this setback, in August of that year the exchange rate for
private importers and exporters was allowed to float. The sucre
depreciated in real terms by 372 during 1986 and by 70? over the average
for the 19o0-1983 period. The depreciation permitted the elimination of
many of the quantitative restrictions put in place in 1982-83, somewhat



reducing the distortions between agriculture and industry. Subsidies (via
the preferential official exchange rate) on the imports of wheat and milk
powder were eliminated even before the currency float, and procurement by
ENAC (the producer and wholesale price controlling agency) was reduced to
four commodities -- rice, hard corn, soya, and cotton. Similarly, official
consumer price ceilings were eliminated for most products including fresh
milk. Thus, in spite of the fall in petroleum prices, well-conceived
measures allowed the economy to grow by 2.92 in 1986. This growth was led
by agricultural production, petroleum output and a small but promising
begiining of mining of gold and other minerals.
7.       On March 5 and 6, 1967 the remote oil-producing northeastern
region of Ecuador was hit by two major earthquakes accompanied by
destructive landslides. The major economic cost to Ecuador was undoubtedly
the interruption in oil production and exports which resulted from damage
to major sections of the Trans-Ecuadorean Crude Oil and LPG (liquified
petroleum las) Pipelines and the impact of these on the economy. The cost
of restoring oil exports, through rebuilding the damaged pipeline system,
construction of a connection to the Trans-Andean pipeline through Colombia,
and re'.ated works is estimated at US$113 million. Damage to road and
bridge infrastructure is estimated at US$20 million. Foregone oil revenues
until the end of July 1987 are ?alued at about US$600 million, and the
multiplier effect of reduced exports, decreased public expenditure, and
restricted domestic oil consumption has been substantial. All in all, a
conservative estimate of the damage is about US$1.0 billion, equivalent to
over 8Z of GDP, but some of this loss is being recovered now through
accelerated oil production.
8.       Policies to mitigate the effects of the earthquake on the economy
include a major increase in the domestic prices of petroleum products,
building a new pipeline to Colombia, and arranging oil swaps with
Venezuela, Kuwait and Nigeria. The repair of the ruptured pipeline system
was completed in the middle of August as scheduled. In addition, by
temporarily curtailing debt service payments to commercial banks, the
government has momentarily staved off foreign exchange cash flow problems
so that imports did not have to be cut. The net result of the contraction
from the fiscal shortfall and reduced oil consumption, coupled with the
expansionary impact of the reconstruction, is expected to increase non-oil
GDP in 1987 slightly; however total real GDP is expected to fall by about
3-4Z.
Adiustment Policy Issues
9.       Continued action is necessary to complete the reforms adopted thus
far, consolidate the gains, and meet new challenges. The most urgent
problem in 1987 is the balance of payments and fiscal deficits retulting
from the fall in petroleum prices and the recent earthquake. As a result
of decreased export and tax revenues from oil, the current account deficit
is expected to rise from 5.3Z of GDP in 1986 to 9.2Z in 1987, and the



- 4 -
public sector deficit (on an accrual basis) will probably increase from
4.12 of GDP in 198 to 9.32 in 1987. The government will need to maintain
a competitive exchange rate to permit continued growth in non-oil exports.
It will also need to continue restraining public sector expenditu-es and
monetary expansion. Of equal importance is the strengthening of a
financial system that has been badly weakened by a decade of misguided
financial policies and imprudence on the part of bankers and their clients.
Finally, addition_., foreign resources will be necessary to support the
reform process and smooth the adjustment to lower oil prices.
Sourzes of External Financing
10.      Since 1982, when limitations on the availability of external
credit began to affect the Ecuadorian economy, the relative importance of
the various sources of external finance has changed significantly. In
1982, multilateral official sources provided 28.22 of the increase in total
net external debt. In 1986, these sources accounted for 61.92 of the total
increase. Bilateral official lending supplied significant shares of total
additional external funding between 1983 and 1985. Commercial banks
reduced their net r.o'w lendings from 81.72 of the total in 1982 to 2.52 in
1984, and increased them to 33.22 ih. 1986. At this point the Government of
Ecuzador is completing negotiations on a financing package for the next few
years with the IMF, the World Bank, IDB, and commercial banks.
Ecuador's Relations with the IMF and Commercial Banks
11.      Ecuador has entered into ttree IMF Standby arrangements since
1983. In addition, it received Compensatory Financing Facilities in 1983
as a result of lowered export revenues due to floods and in 1986 as a
result of lower oil prices. In December 1984, Ecuador agreed on a
multiyear rescheduling with commercial banks for the period 1985-1989, and
in April 1985 with the Paris Club for the period 1985-1987. Until 1986,
all Stand-by targets were met, often with sizable margins. However, only
one purchase was made under the Augutt 1986 Stand-by arrangement because of
nonobservance of targets related to the public sector deficit. The targets
were consistent with a public sector deficit of 3.22 cs GDP; due to higher
than expected public expenditures, the deficit turned out to be 4.12 of
GDP. By January 1987, the Government and the Fund were negotiating targets
for 1987 with the view that the August 1986 Stand-by would be reactivated
and fully disbursed in 1987. In January 1987, while seeking ways of
filling the agreed financing gap with commercial banks as a consequence of
lower oil prices, the Ecuadorien Government stopped its payments to
commercial banks, citing shortage of foreign exchange. By February 1987 an
agreement between the Fund and the Government had been reached on the main
parameters of the 1987 program, with final agreement pending a rescheduling
with commercial banks and some action on public revenues through domestic
petroleum price increases. Immediately following the earthquake, the
uncertainties were so great that the authorities felt that it would not be
appropriate to negotiate a new Stand-by arrangement.



- 5-
12.      Now that the situation is somewhat clearer, the authorities are
seeking agreements -on a comprehensive rescheduling program for 1987-1988.
An IMF mission visited Ecuador in October, and a Stand-by arrangement has
already been recommended by the Fund's management to its Executive Board. A
fresh aiproach was made to the commercial banks, which was well received.
Negotiations with the commercial banks on a rescheduling of principal
payments falling due between 1985 and 1995 and a fresh money facility of
US$350 million are well advanced.
Creditworthiness and Bank Exposure
13.      Despite commendab'e policy improvements since 1983, Ecuador's
creditworthiness has suffered from the sharp decline in oil prices which
occurred in 1986 and the earthquake-induced interruption of oil exports in
1987.  Improvement in Ecuador's ci-ditworthiness would depend substantially
on sustained implementation of policies to improve economic efficiency and
resource mobilization. The Government is putting together a program,
embodying an IMF Stand-by, rescheduling and new money from the commercial
banks, and adjustment loans from the World Bank, probably in conjunction
with parallel cofinancing from commercial banks and official sources.
While Ecuador can, under such arrangements, be currently considered
creditworthy for World Bank lending, it will be necessary to monitor the
situation carefully in the years ahead.   A fall in the price of oil or a
deterioration in policies could result in weaker economic and balance of
payments performance. Even if Ecuador's performance continues on its
present course, issues of Bank exposure and burden sharing among creditors
must be revi-wed. As of September 30, 1987 Bank exposure in Ecuador
(including exchange rate adjustments) totaled US$592 million or about 6.5Z
of MLT outstanding and disbursed. This figure will rise in the years
ahead, but should remain well within current Bank guidelines. The
commercial banks are expected to lend a substantial part of the
approximately US$1200 million of new MLT money needed for 1987-1988.  In
Jts future lending to Ecuador, the Bank will review carefully the
contributions of the country's traditional creditors to ensure continued
equitable burden sharing.
PART II - FINANCIAL SECTOR ISSUES
14.      The performance of the financial sector in Ecuador, from the point
of view of resource allocation, institutional strength and mobilization of
domestic resources for long term lending, has several weaknesses that can
be summarized as follows:
(i)     The large volume of subsidized credit has hindered the
efficiency in the allocation of financial resources, nonetary
stability, resource mobilization from domestic sources and
the development of long term business finance;
(ii)     Large portfolio losses, an inadequate supervisory and
regulatory framework, and the creation of a large number of
small banks and DFIs induced by the availability of
subsidized credit have weakened the capital adequacy and
operational efficiency of the financial sector; and



- 6 -
(iii)     Interest rate ceilings, tax discrimination, and the absence
of an institutional framework to inform and protect investors
have harnered the development of the capital market.
Dependence on Central Bank Rediscounts
15.      Increasing Supply of BCE Credit.  The BCE has been the dominant
lender in Ecuador, by granting low interest rate rediscounts to FIs. BCE's
lending accelerated in the first half of the 1980s, especially after 1983,
when the large foreign debts of the financial system were converted into
sucre debts to the BCE at a favorable interest rate, with the BCE
simultaneously assuming the foreign exchange obligations (commercial risk
remained with the banks). During the period 1980-1984, BCE credit financed
62% of the increase in credit to the private sector (20% excluding the
nationalized foreign debt). Another important component of preferential
credit has been forced investments by commercial banks in the same sectors
and on the same terms as credit with resources rediscounted from the
Financial Funds.1 By 1984 credit from BCE accounted for 502 of total
private credit and total preferential credit (i.e., BCE credit plus forced
investments) reached abon;t 532 of the total. Not only are the amounts of
these credits large, but by 1984 they were channeled through some 44
separate credit lines, thereby integrating a typical system of directed
credit which has seriousl- diminished efficiency in the allocation of
financial resources. In 1984 the interest rates charged by FIs on forced
investments and BCE credits were within a range of 102-18? and provided a
transfer (measured in terms of negative interest rates) to borrowers of
around 3.8Z of GDP. The nominal interest rate on these credits, although
adjustable by the BCE, is not explicitly linked to market interest rates.
Therefore, the size of the subsidy could become large if market rates rise
and the BCE does not adjust credit rates accordingly.
16.      The supply of credit from BCE to FIs is only one of the
instruments of public sector intervention in the credit market. In
addition, other public financial institutions (BNF, CNF, and BEV) allocate
a good part (25.7% in 1986) of total credit to the private sector. These
instruments have supported a strong tendency to subsidize and direct
credit. The resulting misallocation of financial resources is one of the
chief reasons for the increase in the incremental capital-output ratio from
an average of 2.9 in 1971-1975 to an average of 5.2 in 1981-1985.
Moreover, the supply of BCE credit to the private sector was the basic
source accounting for monetary growth in Ecuador until about 1985, when it
contributed almost 1302 of the yearly change in the monetary base. Since
1/ These funds were created in 1973, and there are funded by the BCE, the
Government, and from foreign loans channeled through the BCE.



August 1986, Ecuador has been under a floating rate system, and barring
extensive inte:vention in the foreign exchange market, domestic credit
creation is the major policy variable determining monetary growth and the
nominal exchange rate. Therefore, the Government's control of BCE credit
to FIs is a key element in any policy to check monetary expansion.
17.      Weak Domestic Resource Mobilization.  The strong rate of capital
accumulation that took place during the nineteen seventies raised
significantly the demand for financial resources in Ecuador. As a result,
the contribution of financial services to value added increased from 2.5%
of GDP in 1970 to 3.9% in 1980. Yet domestic resource mobilization (money,
quasimoney, and long term bonds) stagnated at around 24% of GDP until 1984,
as a result of ceilings on interest rates. These ceilings became more
restrictive as international interest rates and devaluation expectations
increased during that period and therefore contributed to lower financial
intermediation through those institutions subject to the ceilings, to
investments in real assets and to capital flight. As inflation increased
and the fixed exchange rate system was abandoned in the early 1980's, the
Government adjusted interest rate ceilings moderately, but no increase in
resource mobilization was achieved.
18.      Other constraints have limited domestic resource mobilization.
The lack of an adequate adjustable interest rate lending instrument that
facilitates funding of long term loans with short term resources is one of
the reasons why long term lending institutions (DFIs, SLAs and public
sector FIs) rather rely on BCE or international funding for their long term
lending. Also, the continued availability of cheap resources from BCE or
BCE's subsidizing of foreign resources prevents those FIs from directly
intermediating domestic private savings. A case in point is Banco Nacional
de Fomento (BNF), a large public commercial and development bank with 11
regional offices, 57 branches and 9 agencies all over the country.
Notwithstanding its extensive branch network, BNF has placed little
emphasis on mobilizing resources from the public, so that these resources
make up only about one quarter of its total funding. The potential for a
larger funding of FI credit through domestic resource mobilization is
indicated by the fact that, in 1984, 56% of credit to the private sector
was financed by foreign liabilities. This percentage can be decreased by a
market oriented pricing of both domestic and foreign resources.
Institutional and Financial Weaknesses
19.      Deteriorating Portfolio Quality.  Available estimates indicate
that portfolio losses not yet written off may equal the accounting equity
of banks and may even exceed the accounting equity of DFIs. The reason for
the extent of portfolio losses ia relation to FI capital can be attributed,
in part, to the highly leveraged conditions of both FIs and business
enterprises. High leverage at FIs, currently at more than 20:1 for banks



- 8 -
Table 2: ECUADOR - MAIN FINANCIAL SECTOR INDICATORS
Est.
Year                       1980    1984     1985     1986  1987
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__
BCE credit to FIs/FI credit to private
Sector (2)                             22.3      50.0     42.2   38.3    33.0
BCE credit and forced investments/FI
credit to private sector (X)           25.8      53.3     44.9   40.9    35.9
Sources of Growth of the Monetary Base
(X of Change in Monetary Base)
Change in International Reserves      178.8    28.6     83.6  -37.7   n.a.
Change in BCE Credit
Public Sector                       -35.8   -92.7   -513.1   45.0   n.a.
Private Sector                      100.0   391.8    129.4  -10.7   n.a.
Change ir Non-classified Assets      -143.0  -227.7    400.1  103.4   n.a.
Resource Mobilization by FIs
(2 of GDP)                               24.8    24.0     26.4   27.2    26.9
Of which:
Money (MI)                             15.3    13.7     12.4   12.1    12.2
Quasimoney                              5.5     6.0     10.4   11.8    11.6
Long Term Bonds                         4.0     4.2      3.6    3.3      3.1
Interest Rates (Annual 2)
Passbook Savings                         6-10   20-22    20-22  21-27   21-27
Certificates of Deposit                                  22-26  26-31   27-31
Preferential Lending                      8-9      18       18    18       22
Non-preferential Lending                   12      23    26-30  30-35   30-35
Total Liabilities/Capital
Financial Institutions                   7.38   13.91    17.45  16.33   16.63
Businesses                               2.50    3.08     2.52   2.17   n.a.
Commercial Banks (Z)
Profitabiity as I of Capital             19.0    20.8     20.1   19.0   n.a.
Oper. Cost/Total Liabilities              3.6     4.4      4.1    4.5   n.a.
Forced Invs./Bank Crd. to Prv. Sect.      9.2     7.1      5.7    5.1    4.5
Required Reserves/Total Deposits         25.5    18.0     17.4   17.1   22.1
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__-
Sourcess Central Bank of Ecuador, Superintendency of Banks and Superintendency
of ^'npanies.
n.a.: Not available.



- 9 -
and at around 15:1 for DFIs, originated in imprudent behavior by Fl
management, that was made possible by inadequacies of the supervisory and
regulatory frameworks. For example, when access to external credit was
easy, an important and profitable source of income for banks and DFIs was
the guaranteeing of foreign direct loans. As businesses could not ;..evice
their foreign debts, the guarantees were made effective and the leverage
and exposure of FIs increased. On the other hand, high business leverage,
measured by debt-equity ratios that peaked at 3.3 in 1983 from 2.3 in 1979,
has responded to a number of incentives, including the availability of
cheap credit from BCE and a favorable tax treatment to debt finance. With
very high debt/equity ratios in business firms and FIs, the recession that
began in 1981 and the subsequent devaluations that took place before the
debt was nationalized in 1983 seriously limited the debt service ability of
these firms and the capacity of FIs to make the appropriate write-offs.
20.      Declining Operating Efficiency.  The institutional strength of FIs
is also limited by their small size and by their links to industrial
financial groups. Some industrial groups established banks and DFIs
because it was profitable for them to gain access to cheap BCE rediscounts.
This was the case even though their small size prevented the institutions
from taking full advantage of economies of scale and hence lower costs of
intermediation. In addition, the links to industrial financial groups has
made arms-length transactions less likely, thereby downgrading the quality
of FI credit management and increasing the size of portfolio losses.
21.      Reduced Profitability.  Increasing portfolio problems and the
reduction of income from the guaranteeing of foreign direct loans and from
financial services related to international trade further reduced the
profitability of banking. Reported ratios of profits to equity remained at
around 202 from 1980 to 1986, even though banks were unable to collect an
increasing share of accrued interest income and delayed the appropriate
provisions and write-offs called for by the declining quality of
outstanding loans. The large size of the estimated portfolio losses
suggests that true profitability must have fallen much below 20X during
those years, and probably turned negative for a number of institutions.
22.      Profitability in banking has also been limited by the
intermediation tax represented by reserve requirements and forced
investments. Reserve requirements are 322 on demand deposits, 142 on
savings and term deposits, 11X on certificates of deposit issued with more
than 90 days to maturity, and 7Z on certificates of deposit issued with 90
or lesa days to maturity. All in all, reserve requirements were equivalent
to 17.12 of deposits in 1986. Forced investments include 5 of savings
deposits in bonds issued by Banco Ecuatoriano de Vivienda and 102 of total
credit (excluding a number of important exemptions) to be lent in the same
sectors and on the same terms as credits rediscounted from BCE's Financial
Funds. Forced investments accounted for 5.12 of credit from commercial
banks to the private sector (3.1? of total credit to the private sector) in
1986. Reserve requirements have been increased recently to control the
growth of the money supply but forced investments were relaxed in 1986 to
limit the extent of preferential credit.



- 10 -
23.      Inadequate Supervision.  In order to improve the financial
soundness of FIs it is necessary to strengthen the Superintendency of
Bank's (SB) capacity to regulate them. SB is an autonomous public body
reporting to both the Congress and the President, and does not work as
closely with the BCE as would be desirable. While its primary function
should be to assess the riskiness of the operations of FIs and to ensure
compliance with the legal requirements on their exposure and equity, it has
not adequately supervised the FIs and unduly concentrated on ensuring that
they meet the requirements on forced investments. Although the SB is to
receive technical assistance under the Bank's Fifth Development Banking and
Industrial Finance projects, the assistance has focused so far on analysis
of the economic environment of FIs, bank operations under unstable
conditions, credit analysis and strategic planning, and only minimally on
assessing the financial soundness of FIs.
24.      Weaknesses in the Regulatory Framework.  The regulatory framework
also has serious weaknesses. Maximum leverage ratios in banks are
numerically reasonable but rendered useless by the liabilities that have
been exempted from these ratios.2 Exposure ratios, also heavily exempted,
are further weakened because the aggregation of mutually related debtors is
n,t adequately regulated and has not been satisfactorily enforced. Until
recently, regulatory and tax restrictions made it difficult for FIs to make
provisions. Provisions for losses are only about 2? of portfolio among the
DFIs and even more inadequate among banks. Writing off losses is still
deficient, as write-offs are mandatory only after credits have been overdue
for five years. Traditional accounting practices permit the accrual of
interest on non-performing loans, thereby overstating profits and equity.
Inadequacy of Long Term Finance
25.      The development of long term finance with domestic resources from
the private sector has been inhibited by a number of factors. The
availability of subsidized credit from BCE is one of them. In addition, as
there exists a legal ceiling on adjustable rate lending, private FIs are
prevented from funding long term lending operations with short term
resources and businesses from issuing free variable rate bonds. Finally,
equity finance is discriminated against by a heavier tax burden for
dividends than for interest and by the lack of an adequate institution that
protects the interests of minority shareholders.
2/ Maximum ratios of liabilities to capital in banks are as follows: 15:1
for commercial sections; 10:1 for savings sections; and 20:1 for
mortgage bonds. Certificates of deposit issued by banks are not
subject to a maximum leverage ratio. The maximum leverage ratio and
the maximum ratio of credit assets (including investments) to capital
of DFIs are both 15:1. Certificates of deposit issued by DFIs are
included in the leverage ratio.



- 11 -
26.      Development Finance Institutions.  Thirteen development finance
institutions (DFIs), including the publicly owned Corporacion Financiera
Nacional (CFN), provide medium and long-term industrial finance mainly with
funds from the international institutions and BCE. Since these sources of
funds are cheaper, DFIs mobilize almost no resources from the domestic
private sector. Until they are able to use adjustable rate lending to
permit transformation of certificates of deposit into long term loans,
their role as DFIs will continue to be limited to financial intermediation
of BCE or multilateral development lending. Term transformation will
require the removal of ceilings on variable rate lending and an appropriate
link to market rates of lending and onlending rates on the resources
provided by the BCE and international institutions.
27.      Housing Finance.  The housing finance system consists of Banco de
Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda (BEV), the savings and loan associations (SLA),
and the Social Security Institute (IESS). In addition, commercial banks
finance a small amount of housing by rolling over short term loans. In the
past, SLAs were able to mobilize resources from the public because they
were allowed to pay a slightly higher interest rate on savings deposits
than were other commercial banks and because to be eligible for a low cost
loan, mortgage borrowers had to deposit a compensating balance to be
maintained until sometime after the loan was granted. When interest rates
began to rise in the early 1980's, SLAs experienced large losses because of
the mismatch between their low-interest, long-term assets and their short-
term, higher rate liabilities.  When depositors became nervous and withdrew
funds, the BCE had to step in and buy up much of the outstanding portfolio.
This left SLAs quite liquid, but unable to continue lending for housing
since the prevailing market determined interest rates on deposits (22z) and
the remaining interest rate ceiling on long term lending made long term
lending risky.
28.      The publicly owned BEV was established in 1961 to provide housing
finance and to regulate the SLA system created two years later. It
provides about twice as much credit to the private sector as the SLAs.
Although BEV mobilizes a significant amount of domestic voluntary resources
from the public through passbook savings, its medium and long term foreign
liabilities, including Bank loans, have been an increasingly important
source of funds. The average interest on loans, 13?, is still moderately
above the average cost of funds, 112, but its current loan rates, 19Z -
21?, are less than the rate it must pay on deposits, 22?. Thus, BEV still
has to surmount a number of difficulties before it could become an
autonomous and market oriented long-term credit institution. These include
adjusting its interest rates towards market rates and introducing a
flexible adjustable rate lending instrument.
29.      The IESS mortgage lending is about equal to that of BEV and the
SLAs combined. IESS has been making graduated payment loans, but it uses
an initial low interest rate, rather than capitalization of interest.
This procedure gives a large subsidy to the borrower (who, typically, is
not poor) and, along with its holdings of low-interest government and



- 12 -
mortgage bonds issued by commercial banks, is eroding the real value of
IESS's assets quite rapidly. IESS has recently raised its interest rate on
mortgages to 12%, which is still very low when compared to prevailing CD
rates of 27Z to 302; unless IESS earns a higher rate on its portfolio soon,
the government will have to step in, either to cover IESS's payments to
retirees, raise the already high social security taxes, or cut benefits.
The government has arranged for IESS to receive technical assistance from
!LO in assessing the problem of its unfunded liabilities and dealing with
its financial, operational, and information processing problems.
30.      Mobilization of Long Term Resources by FIs.  In sum, FIs have not
developed adequate instruments of long term lending. As inflation became a
more serious problem after 1981 and nominal interest rates had to be
raised, the limited amounts of long term resources that FIs had been able
to mobilize dried up. Banks were no longer able to sell 10 year fixed rate
mortgage bonds and DFIs could not issue any more long-term obligations.
SLAs attempted to lend long-term at fixed rates while mobilizing resources
with short-term deposits with catastrophic results. Virtually all long
term lending ceased except that funded by BCE (and IESS) and the remaining
fixed-rate commitments implied a large subsidy in line with variations in
the rate of inflation and in market interest rates. On the other hand, FIs
have not developed principal indexing or interest capitalizing systems to
ensure reasonable patterns of real amortization payments on long-term
loans. The high nominal interest rates prevailing in the market include an
important inflation component. Without capitalization of all or most of
this component, borrowers' real amortization schedules are heavily front
loaded. Such schedules bear little relation to the cash flow of the
projects being financed and most likely there would be little demand for
such lending at market determined interest rates.
31.      Business Finance.  Firms are highly indebted, largely to FIs and
suppliers rather than to investors through market placement of firms' bonds
or commercial paper. Each firm's equity, on the other hand, is
concentrated in a small number of large shareholders and very few companies
have significant numbers of small shareholders.  The issue of commercial
paper and long term bonds by businesses has been hindered by the absence of
a regulation that authorizes variable interest rate bonds. Equity finance
is hindered by income tax discrimination against dividends, the lack of
appropriate auditing and accounting standards that provide reliable
information to outside investors, and insufficient protection for minority
shareholders. Moreover, the availability of subsidized loans from BCE has
also inhibited direct mobilization efforts by businesses. Thus, security
markets that exist in Quito and Guayaquil trade mostly interest-bearing
securities issued by FIs rather than equities or bonds.
PART III - THE GOVERNMENT'S FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
32.      The basic role of the financial system is to contribute to the
efficient resource mobilization and allocation of investment and capital.



- 13 -
To do this in an efficient way, the financial system must be enabled to
mobilize an adequate mix of foreign and domestic resources, transforming
their size, maturity, and risk characteristics, in order to satisfy the
credit requirements of the domestic economy. The weaknesses in Ecuador's
financial system, identified in Part II, provide the backdrop against which
the financial sector policy program presented to the Bank by the Government
of Ecuador can be appraised.
The Macroeconomic Framework
33.      Based on the expectation that the recent macroeconomic policy
initiatives can be maintained. consolidated and extended, strong economic
growth should be sustainable. The key elements of the government's medium
term economic adjustment and reactivation strategy include: (a) the
diversification of exports away from petroleum through the maintenance of a
competitive exchange rate and the implementation of an effective import
duty drawback mechanism; (b) a continuation of the gradual reduction in
import protection for industry and the removal of tariff exemptions in all
sectors; (c) improved putlic goods and services pricing, especially for
electricity and petroleum, which is vital for strengthening government
revenues, exports and economic efficiency; (d) a more rational public
investment program; and (e) improved financial sector policies to permit
greater mobilization and a more efficient allocation of resources. These
measures are summarized in Annex IV.
34.      It is also expected that the Government will follow prudent fiscal
and monetary policies. Fiscal restraint and monetary stability are
required to avoid excessive pressure on domestic financial markets and a
resurgence of inflation, both of which would endanger the expected
achievements of the financial policy program. Improvements in
macroeconomic and financial policies are also necessary to ensure continued
creditworthiness of the country. Thus, a conducive macroeconomic
adjustment program must be in place for the financial sector program that
would be supported by the proposed FSECAL operation.
35.      Growth, Investment and Savings.  Following the dip and surge in
economic growth in 1986 and 1987, which is explained by the decline and
recovery of petroleum production, the economy is expected to grow within
the 3.5Z to 5.OX range that is consistent with historical performance.
Growth is projected to accelerate within this range as oil exploration
intensifies after 1988. Investment is expected to return to its historic
level of about 18Z of GDP, following the recovery efforts of 1987.
Increases in the efficiency of investment are expected as a result of the
efforts to improve resource allocation through a better financial and trade
policy framework. Finally, an increase in domestic savings is anticipated
as a result of a better performance of public sector finances.
36.      The Balance of Payments and the Public Sector Deficit.  Balance of
payments and public sector balance projections (Annex I) show a significant
decrease in the current account deficit of the balance of payments, from



- 14 -
9.22 of GDP in 1987 to 3.02 of GDP in 1988, as well as a sizable decline of
the public sector deficit, from 9.32 to 3.4Z during the same time period.
These improvements are due almost exclusively to the recuperation of
petroleum production and exports as a result of the oil pipeline repair
that has now been completed. Further reductions in the current account
deficit to 0.32 in 1991 result from the assumed expansion of non-oil
exports. Further declines in the public sector deficit to 0.1Z in 1991
would be the consequence of improved pricing of public goods and services
and of a slight reduction in the ratio of public expenditure to GDP. The
latter assumes a more rational public investment program.
37.      Prospects and Needs for Financing.  Projected medium and long term
(MLT) external financing amounts to about US$1.2 billion during 1987 and
1988. The Government is negotiating the financing of this sum with the IMF,
commercial banks, and the Paris Club, taking into ccnsideration expected
disbursements from multilateral sources. The Government expects that World
Bank disbursements less amortizations will provide from 252 to 302 of
projected MLT lending in these two years; the IDB, bilateral sources, and
commercial banks would provide the balance. A part of the total MLT
lending could be conjunction with commercial bank parallel cofinancing of
the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan and an Export Development
Loan under preparation.
The Government's Financial Reform Program
38.      The government's program for financial sector improvement
objectives may be grouped into three categories:
(i)   Reducing the dependence of FIs on the Central Bank to promote
a better resource allocation, greater monetary stability, and
a more adequate volume of long term business finance.
(ii)   Improving the regulatory and supervisory framework to
strengthen financial institutions.
(iii)   Improving conditions for adjustable rate lending,
capitalization of interest and equity finance to promote
capital market development.
Reducing the Dependence of FIs on the Central Bank
39.      Recent Policies.  In 1985-86, the Government of Ecuador (GOE)
reversed earlier trends and restricted the growth of preferential credit
through private financial institutions, which had peaked in 1984 as a
result of the foreign debt conversion program. Subsidized credit through
private commercial banks has grown very little thereafter. As part of the
policies introduced in August 1986, a large program of subsidized export
credit was canceled, the interest rate on remaining credits for export
promotion was raised from 10Z to 182, funds were shifted from lower to
higher interest rate lines, and forced investments of banks were cut
significantly. Between 1984 and 1986, as a result of these measures, the
share of BCE credit to FIs in total credit from FIs to the private sector



- 15 -
dropped from 50X to 38Z, while the share of preferential credit fell from
532 to 41% over the same period. Furthermore, with the decline in the rate
of inflation the aggregate subsidy from BCE credit was reduced from 3.8% of
GDP to 0.4Z of GDP. To prevent fluctuations in market interest rates from
changing the size of the subsidy element in preferential credit, interest
rates on BCE credits are now being linked to the market determined rates
paid on Certificates of Deposit (CDs). The interest rate on preferential
credit has thus been raised from 182 to 232, thereby reducing the gap with
respect to the CD rate from 11 to 6 percentage points and further
decreasing the subsidy on BCE credit. Finally, the reduction in the size
of the credit subsidy has been complemented by a reduction in the number of
different BCE credit lines. In 1986, 11 of the 44 existing lines were
r.erged into one fund. During 1987, 7 of the remaining 33 credit lines were
closed.
40.      In 1985 a Certificate of Deposit was created with a market
determined interest rate and in 1986 rates on passbook savings, time
deposits, CDs and non-preferential lending were also allowed to float. The
removal of interest rate ceilings has permitted FIs to mobilize more
domestic resources, thereby reducing their dependence on BCE credit. The
ratio of monetary and financial assets to GDP increased from 24.0% in 1984
to 27.2X in 1986, and free market lending, which was nonexistent in 1984,
accounted for 34% of credit to the private sector in 1986. Also, under the
Agricultural Credit Project (2752-EC) recently approved by the Bank, BNF is
committed to mobilizing more resources from the public as it adjusts to the
prospect of reduced availability of credit from BCE by using its wide
branch network to attract low-cost deposits.
41.      Action Program.  To achieve a further reduction in the credit
subsidy, the Central Bank will decrease the volume of lending through BCE
credit lines and raise the minimum interest rates on these lines. Thus,
the expansion in credit is being held to no more than S/12.0 billion, a
nominal increase of less than 7% compared to expected inflation of about
33Z. Moreover, BCE intends to reduce its credit in real terms further
during 1988, so as to bring it down to 65% of the outstanding level at the
end of 1986. These actions should lead to t. fall in preferential credit
from 41% of credit to the private sector in 1986 to 36X and 29% in 1987 and
1988 respectively.  The reduction in the volame of BCE credit will be
achieved in part by closing more preferential credit lines after January 1,
1988. This program for private sector credit is expected to be consistent
with the control of net domestic assets of the BCE which is likely to
figure prominently in the IMF program.
42.      A further reduction in the subsidy element in preferential credit
will be achieved through raising the minimum rates on BCE credit to within
5 percentage points or less of the 90-day CD rate before June of 1988,
thereby continuing the adjustment towards market rates that was started in
August of this year. The Government also intends to equate the minimum BCE
rate to the market determined reference rate if and when the latter falls
below 20%.



- 16 -
43.      The largest single line of credit from BCE is the one extended for
the nationalization of the foreign debt. Amortization of the credits under
this line is scheduled to begin in 1988. There will be great pressure to
roll-over the matulrities yet again. In that case, it would be important to
eliminate, or at least greatly reduce, the subsidy element in these loans.
According to the Government's program, any refinanced portion of the
nationalized loans will be less than 50 of the outstanding amount at the
time they are due and will bear an adjustaile interest rate no less than
the free rate on certificates of deposit. The terms on which any portion
of these loans are to be refinanced will be announced and in force before
June of 1988.
Strengthening Financial Institutions
44.      Recent Policies.  The Government has designed a program to deal
with financial institutions with financial problems. Under that program,
the government nationalized the foreign debt of the FIs, established
"Rehabilitation programs," liquidated one commercial bank and took over
another. At present three banks and two DPIs have entered Rehabilitation
Programs that consist of a BCE advance (the least preferential of any BCE
credit) combined with a workout over 5 years drawn up by SB and BCE. A
workout is initiated when a FI is unable to repay its debt to the BCE. It
typically entails non-payment of dividends, some contribution of fresh
capital near the end of the work out period, and operational changes. The
BCE also provides assistance by accepting the real assets that FIs have
received from debtors as payment of the Ft debt to the BCE. Nevertheless,
these programs are designed more to deal with liquidity than with solvency
problems, and thus would require more emphasis on recapitalizing FIs.
45.      To support its program of recapitalizing FIs and supervising
capital adequacy, the Superintendency has started a thorough review of the
portfolio quality of banks and DFIs. It has now completed the evaluation
of sixteen banks and of all DFIs. The banks that have been reviewed
include the larger as well as those that are perceived to have significant
portfolio losses. SB has also begun to take steps to force FIs to increase
capital and provisions for loss. The ratio of total credit assets to
equity of private banks decreased from 18.2 in 1985 to 14.2 in 1986 and
that of DFIs has fallen from 14.7 in 1985 to 13.6 in 1986. Overall,
provisions for losses have risen from 0.2Z of credit and contingencies to
the private sector in 1980 to 1.6Z in 1986. In 1986, SB disallowed
distribution of profits in a number of institutions. A regulation was
issued to prevent the accrual of interest on non-performing loans beginning
in January 1988.
46.      In February 1987, the Monetary Board authorized foreign debt
creditors to "lend, transfer, or assign" their claims for equity
investments. These debt-equity swaps can be made at a business firm or at
an FI. In the first case, the capitalized firm would repay its
nationalized debt to a financial institution, while the latter would cancel
the corresponding debt to the BCE; in the second case, the capitalized Ft
would pay its nationalized debt to the BCE. However, FIs and businesses
have been unwilling to give up the highly subsidized debts for equity



- 17 -
claims, and only very l.mited conversions have been taking place. As these
credits are due to be paid starting in mid-1968, more debtors will find it
convenient to finance these payments with debt-equity conversions.
47.      Action Program.  The Superintendency of BankF has a designed
program of actions to tighten prudential regulation of FIs. To improve its
monitoring and control of capital adequacy, SB will require !Is, beginning
in 1988, to ask their auditors to provide audited supplementary information
on portfolio quality, exposure to mutually related firms andjor
individuals, the true value of equity, and the adequacy of pro-visions. SB
will also begin to exchange views with auditors to harmonize criteria used
for judging the financial soundness of FIs. Furthermore, before the end of
the year the government will issue Monetary Board regulations, to the
Bank's satisfaction, that would allow SB to control capital adequacy in
relation to various categories of risk assets. In addition, SB will also
issue regulations that are acceptable to the Bank to enforce more strictly
exposure limits3 by aggregating lending or guarantee operations with
mutually related firms andlor individuals and beginning a three year
program to decrease excess expos-ures.
48.      So far, the authorities have been reluctant to take the difficult
decisions involved in closing or forcing the merger of weak banks and DFIs.
Only one institution has been liquidated and another was taken over by the
jovernment with the intention to resell it to the private sector. These
actions are important but do not go far enough to restore the capital
adequacy of FIs. Although the financial situation of the Ecuadorean
banking system is relatively stronger th.an that of several other Latin
American countries, it still requires substantial strengthening.
Therefore, the Government has set the following principles to guide the
process of consolidation:
(i)   Once the SB determines that an FI does not meet critical
capital adequacy or liquidity limits, , review, including an
extended audit, would be undertaken by SB and BCE to
determine whether the FI should be liquidated or
recapitalized.
(ii)    If it is determined that the FI can be recapitalized, the SB
will negotiate a program for recapitalization with the
directors of the Fl. Such a program will restore capital
adequacy in no more than three years, with yearly
intermediate targets.
(iii)   Deviation from the recapitalizatior. program, by more than 202
of the agreed capital adequacy target in any one year, will
result in the immediate cessation of BCE lending or
rediscounting operations with the delinquent Fl.
3/ 15% of paid in capital and reserves of the FI with exceptions mainly
for certain export finance loans, loans under the Financial Funds
mechanism and nationalized credits; an exposure over 15% and un to 252
is permitted when the excess over 152 is secured by real assets.



- 18 -
To apply these principles, SB will use the capital adequacy critetia
defined in relation to assets that the Monetary Board will issue before the
end of 1987.   At present, Rehabilitation Programs are limited to those FIs
that fail to pay rediscounts granted by the BCE, thereby assisting an
institution only at a stage when it is illiquid. Under the new principles,
Rehabilitation Programs will be broadened to include FIs that do not meet
critical capital adequacy or liquidity ratios but that are economically
viable when refloated and strengthened. Although the aggregate
recapitalization needed by banks and DFIs is sizable (estimated at about
US$230 million), the financing would be spread over three year periods for
each institution. To fund the required capitalizations, the
Superintendency will continue to request that FIs do not distribute cash
dividends and/or shareholders will be asked to bring in new resources when
additional provisions are required, when portfolio losses have not been
written off, or when capital adequacy is otherwise deficient. To the
extent th'.t the existing shareholders are unable to provide or obtain from
other investors the needed capitalizations, some non-subsidized funding
would have to be accommodated within a total BCE credit program that
preserves monetary stability.
49.      The capitalizations would proceed in the context of the principles
set forth in the previous paragraph. However, as even strengthened
rehabilitation program- are not a fully satisfactory way of dealing with
troubled financial institutions, the Government will study and discuss with
the Bank the possible means to create and finance a Deposit Guarantee Fund
to reorganize troubled financial institutions and guarantee the deposits at
such institutions. Terms of reference for the study are now ready and the
study and draft legislation, which should be satisfactory to the Bank, will
be completed by June 1988.
50.      As indicated before, the SB will have to focus more strongly on
the assessment of the capital adequacv of FIs. This requires not only an
examination of the portfolio, but also an understanding of credit
management at FIs.  At present, SB is not well equipped to perform these
tasks. Therefore, to continue upgrading the supervision of FIs, SB will
contract for technical assistance in training in four areas: (a) Portfolio
inspection and classification and evaluation of provisions and capital
adequacy; (b) Evaluation of FI's credit risk policy, organization,
procedures and methods; (c) Use of information from FI's external auditors
in supervision of FIs; and (d) Audit and supervision of FI's that operate
in an electronic data environment. The detailed content of this program is
described in Annex VI. It can be financed under World Bank loan 2672,
depending on the availability of alternative sources. The Superintendency
will have contracted the above technical assistance components by March of
1988.
Improving Conditions for Long-Term Finance
51.      Recent Policies.  In 1985, in the context of discussions leading
up to the Bank's Industrial Finance Loan (2672-EC), legal changes were made
that permit FI lending at variable interest rates. Nevertheless, interest
rates on adjustable rate loans were left subject to the 'Maximum



- 19 -
Conventional Rate" (TMC), which is set by the Monetary Board. In November
1987 the TMC was about 2 percentage points below the average rate being
paid on 90-day CDs. The existing ceiling still makes it impossible for FIs
to transform short term deposits resources into long term lending
instruments with adjustable interest rates. On the other hand, the
Monetary Board changed the application of the law last November to permit
as frequent interest rate changes as needed in adjustable lending; under
previous regulations FIs could only adjust interest rates twice a year and
only if the Monetary Board adjusted the TMC in the previous year. This
change will improve the pricing of current adjustable loans funded by
international institutions, which has now been linked to the CD rate.
Irterest rates on all credit projects thus funded were set at two points
below the interest rate on 90-day CDs in November of 1987.
52.      Two recent policies are contributing to the development of bond
markets. Last April, BCE began to collect and publish data on average
interest rates paid on savings accounts and CDs of various maturities. The
average 90-day CD rate is providing a reference for adjustable rate loans
and for long term bonds. Secondly, in 1986, the Government, whose paper is
not subject to the adjustable rate ceiling, successfully issued a long-term
bond with a rate linked to the interest rate paid on CDs. This issue
provided a novel source of public finance and stimulated the development of
the long term bond market.
53.      Action Program.  Interest rates on adjustable rate lending are
subject by law to the ceiling set by the Monetary Board. The Government
will review the possibility of proposing a legislative change that permits
adjustable rate lending without ceilings. Moreover, the ceiling will be
raised to the level of the CD rate before June 1988 and adjusted
accordingly thereafter. Eventually, FIs will be permitted to freely
determine the margins above a reference rate of their choice. In the case
of housing loans from BEV under the Low Income Housing Project, the
onlending rate will be linked to the average market interest rate on
savings accounts issued by financial institutions.
54.      Even more than other FIs, BEV needs to develop a form of contract
that combines market-linked interest rates with adjustable payment
schedules. With the Bank's help BEV is perhaps the institution that is
most advanced in designing such a contract. One of the principal features
of BEV's Low Income Housing Project, wihich has been appraised, is the
introduction of a housing finance contract whose interest rate is defined
as the rate paid on savings deposits plus a margin but whose monthly
payments are tied to the minimum wage. Market based interest rates will
permit BEV to become progressively more self-supporting and able to
mobilize funds from the market while interest rate capitalization will
permit it to offer lower initial payments to its borrowers than it does now
with subsidized rates of 19Z. Introduction of such capitalization by BEV
should pave the way for wider acceptance of the concept by FIs in Ecuador.
55.      So long as CD rates are market determined they are a workable
indicator of credit market conditions, even though they are influenced by
the perceived default risk of deposits in different FIs. A more precise



- 20 -
indicator would be provided by the price of short term public bonds which
have negligible risk of default. To create a market for this instrument
and, at the same time, strengthen monetary control and/or short term public
finance, the Government will introduce before May 1988 an auction market
for treasury bills or Central Bank stabilization bonds. If this market is
successfully established and acceptable to the Bank, the quoted yield will
be used as the reference rate to price BCE credit and loans funded by
international institutions.
56.      Finally, the government plans to carry out a diagnosis of the
fiscal and other factors that may discourage equity finance such as: (a)
preferential tax treatment of interest as opposed to dividend income; (b)
deductibility of the inflation component in nominal interest rates from
company taxable income; (c} lack of protection of minority shareholders;
and (d) legislation inhibiting underwriting. on the basis of this
diagnosis, the government will draw up an action program and draft
legislation that are acceptable to the Bank before June of 1988. It is
expected that a program of financial reform in this area could form the
kernel of a subsequent financial sector adjustment loan.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED OPERATION
History
57.      An exploratory mission sent to Ecuador in 1983 identified the
major weaknesses of the financial sector.  In 1985, the Bank complet;d a
document entitled "Brief Review of the Financial Sector," based on the work
of the 1983 sector mission and on operational missions in 1983 and 1984.
The policies that this operation would support are consistent with the
recommendations of that report. A mission that visited the country in May
1986 found that the financial sector was seriously deteriorating as a
result of the existing incentives for imprudent behavior in financial
institutions. A pre-appraisal mission visited the country in February 1987
to develop a preliminary agreement on the specific policies that the
project would comprise in support of these objectives.   During the
appraisal mission that visited Ecuador last June, the Bank and the
Government refined the policy program to be supported, and obtained from
the Government the "Statement of Financial Policies" that is included as
Annex III.
Description
58.      The proposed Loan of US$100 million would support both the
substantial progress already achieved as well as the program of further
actions to be carried out in 1987-88 as described in Part III (See
Declaration on Financial Policy, Annex III). The US$100 million loan would
be disbursed in two equal tranches and would be used to finance general
imports subject to a negative list. Financial sector policy conditions that
have been completed for Board presentation as well as those that are
required for Second Tranche release are summarized in Annex V. The
proposed agreements under this Financial Sector Adjustment Loan have been
discussed with the IMF and are being coordinated with the IMF's staff
efforts in Ecuador to ensure a supportive macroeconomic framework.



- 21 -
Financial Sector Scenario
59.      Based on the Government's adjustment and reform program, a set of
projections of selected indicators of financial sector performance during
1987-1991 have been prepared (see Table 3). The declining dependence of
FIs on BCE credit is indicated by the falling ratio of preferential credit
to credit to the private sector. As a result of the decline in the volume
and the adjustment in the price of BCE credit, the subsidy on this credit
will be significantly reduced. FIs will increasingly depend on their ovn
resource mobilization and as the government will continue to permit market-
determination of interest rates on deposits, an increase in the ratio of M2
to GDP would be observed.
60.      Credit to the private sector would recover as a result of faster
economic growth. Falling rates of inflation and declining BCE credit will
promote a higher growth of equity finance. The strengthening of FIs will
be reflected in an improved index of capital adequacy (total
creditlcapital) and a better portfolio quality. Improved mobilization of
resources for long term lending will result from the link of adjustable
onlending rates to short term market determined rates. Table 3 also
provides the expected monetary and economic growth frameworks. The
projected growth rate, coupled with the decrease in monetary expansion that
is enabled by declining BCE credit growth should permit a significant
reduction in inflatioa.
Benefits
61.      The reform program of the Government is expected to improve
significantly the performance of the financial sector in Ecuador. Freeing
of interest rates on deposit and lending instruments not funded by BCE,
control of BCE credit growth in real terms, the increase in interest rates
on FI credit funded by BCE and the reduction in the number of separate
credit lines are contributing towards the achievement of a number of
objectives: increased resource mobilization from the private sector, more
efficient pricing of financial assets and credit, reduced business
leverage, and monetary stabilization. The increased flexibility of
adjustable lending, market pricing of on-lending rates on loans funded by
international institutions, the implementation of the low income housing
finance project, and the improvement of short term reference interest rates
are important initial steps to develop the long term capital market.
Finally, the proposed study to identify the bias against equity finance
should provide the basis for further important financial policy reforms
aimed at reducing business leverage.
62.      The proposed regulatory changes, the upgrading of supervision
through technical assistance to the SB, and the Rehabilitation Programs are
important tool3 to strengthen the capital base and improve the performance
of financial institutions. In particular, higher standards for
capitalization, increased provisions, faster write-offs, restrictions on
loans to mutually related parties, and reductions in the volume and subsidy
element in BCE credits make it less attractive for investor groups to
control FIs. Thus it is expected that a number of FIs will be liquidated



- 22 -
Selected Indicators of Financial Sector Performance
(percent)
Projections
1980     1984      1986     1987      1989     1991
Indicator
Preferential Credit        25.8      53.3     40.9      35.9     23.3      16.6
/Credit to Pvt. Sect.
Excess of CD Rate           n.a      n.a       9.0       7.0      0.0       0.0
over Minimum Lending
BCE Rate (Z points)
Total BCE Credit
SubsidyJGDP                 0.7       3.8      0.4       0.3      0.0       0.0
M2/GD                      20.8      19.8     23.9      23.8     25.2      26.0
Credit to Pvt. Sect        42.5      50.4     45.9      43.3     43.1      44.8
/GDP
Assets/FI Capital (Ratio)
Commercial Banks         14.2     20.2      12.2     21.8      18.2      16.5
DFIs                      7.5      18.1     15.3     15.9      14.9      15.6
Excess CD Rate              n.a       n.a      4.0       2.0      0.0      -2.0
over Maximum Adjustable
Lending Rate
Money growth               11.6      42.2     20.1      29.7     20.0      20.0
Inflation                  12.8     29.7      27.4      33.4     14.4      14.5
GDP growth                  4.9       4.2      2.9      -3.2      3.6       4.8
Source: Ministry of Finance, BCE, and staff estimates.
n.a.: Not available



- 23 -
or merged with other FIs whose owners pursue banking as a business rather
than a source of cheap credit for their enterprises.
63.      Other actions that the Government will attempt, subject to
legislative approval, will further contribute to the objectives of the
program. First, the creation of a Deposit Guarantee Fund will provide a
better institutional framework than the current Rehabilitation Programs to
refloat institutions and guarantee deposits. Once the fund is created, the
current de facto insurance of deposits and refloating of FIs will be
handled outside BCE, thereby strengthening BCE's control over money and
credit. Second, legislative progress in freeing adjustable lending from
interest rate ceilings will be an indispensable step to develop long term
lending with domestic resource mobilization, thereby improving the
performance of DFI.., SLAs, and other institutions that provide long term
loans. Finally, to reduce the risk of business insolvency, the Government
is very interested in pushing forward the solutions to the current legal
and institutional difficulties that obstruct the development of equity
finance and business bond issues.
64.      Market determined real interest rates will be subject to
offsetting pressures. As inflation falls in response to tight monetary and
credit policies, the tax deductibility of the inflationary component in
nominal interest rates will become less important, thereby reducing the
demand for credit and stimulating the use of equity finance. The reduction
of interest rate subsidies will also tend to reduce real interest rates in
the non-preferential segment of the market, as lowered subsidies decrease
the demand for investment. The process of consolidation that is likely to
occur as weak financial intermediaries are weeded out should also reduce
the costs of intermediation and thus the real cost of funds to borrowers.
Competition from the development of a market in commercial paper and,
eventually, of longer term obligations of firms may also be expected to
force down the costs of intermediation. These tendencies toward lower real
interest rates will be at work over the medium term. In the short run the
resumption of movement in the nominal exchange rate will increase expected
devaluation, and the acceleration of growth will speed up investment.
These developments may place some upward pressure on real interest rates.
65.      Generally, by reinforcing market signals, the financial an1 trade
policy changes will contribute to improve the efficiency of capital and to
strengthen the fragile capital base of business enterprises which
ultimately will stimulate economic growth. By upgrading supervision, the
Government will also enhance the ability of financial institutions to
perform the transformation of risk, term and size of domestic resources.
The program also will have positive social effects by improving
distribution and employment. The elimination of interest rate subsidies
that ber,efit primarily high income recipients, the decrease in the
regressive inflation tax and a better protection to small depositors are
efficient methods whereby the program will contribute to reduce the
concentration of wealth and income. Moreover, the expected rise in the
quality of investment and the financial stabilization of business
ente;nrises should help improve the growth and stability of employment.



- 24 -
Risks
66.      The main project risk relates to the timing of this Loan, which
would be implemented during the presidential electoral cycle, a period of
political transition. Ecuador will elect a new President in 1988, with a
first-round election in January, a likely run-off in May, and the
inauguration in August. The uncertainties regarding the political
transition, added to challenges which the current administration has faced
in the implementation of its program since June 1986 when it lost
congressional elections, could diminish the Government's ability to
pmaintain the policies already in place and extend the financial sector
reform program supported by the proposed loan.
67.      Of particular concern would be the maintenance of market
determined interest rates and of an acceptable fiscal deficit. The
Government has already withstood a serious legal challenge to the floating
of the interest rate, and in its letter of development policy undertakes to
continue to support such reforms. Further interest rate measures to be
supported by this loan have already beeni taken. The remaining measures
supported by this loan are moderate, for they only require the Government
to raise interest rates on BCE preferential credit two points closer to the
certificate of deposit rate and to increase on-lending rates on loans
funded by international institutions to the level of this CD rate. On the
other hand, the risk of failure to maintain macroeconomic stability is
minimized through continuing dialogue with the Bank and the IMF, including
additional adjustment programs with both institutions.
68.      Second, the Government elected in 1988 might reverse the reform
program. Abrupt and wholesale reversal of the financial and economic
program is not likely, given the fact that these measures have demonstrated
beneficial effects on macroeconomic performance and eased the adjustment to
a-verse economic shocks. In the event of some reversal of current
financial policies, the most likely regime would be one of variable
interest rates, perhaps subject to ceilings, that the Government would
change as a function of the behavior of an indictor of market interest
rates.
69.      Third. many FIs are weak and undercapitalized.  Even with vigorous
efforts by SB and BCE to strengthen them, some insolvencies could result.
In particular, although the faster growth that will result from the foreign
trade policies embodied in the macroeconomic strategy will have a
beneficial effect on portfolio quality, some firms will be hurt initially
by continued import liberalization, thereby increasing the likelihood that
they default on their debts to FIs. However, these effects on portfolio
quality represent an improvement over those that would result from a
strategy of continued protection and slower growth. Thus, since Ecuador's
economy is already quite open, it is expected that the program of economic
reforms will help restore growth to the 4Z-52 level from its recent near
stagnation as well as irnprove portfolio quality.



- 25 -
70.      Finally, although over the medium term the entire program with the
supervisory authorities is designed to prevent the occurrence of system-
wide insolvency, accounting and regulatory changes in the short run will
uncover the existing weaknesses and may thus provoke the closure of some
institutions. The government's fullest commitment to a set of principles
for dealing with failing FIs through its strengthened Rehabilitation
Programs and the eventual creation of a deposit guarantee fund or
equivalent mechanism is the best way to deal with this contingency. An
even greater danger could result, however, if the SB were unable to carry
out the agreed program, thereby failing to uncover weaknesses and allowing
the situation of a number of FI to deteriorate further. This highlights
the importance of the technical assistance that SB will contract under the
policy program.
Loan Implementation
Proposed Financing
71.      The loan would apply to IOOZ of the c.i.f. costs of eligible
private and public sector imports. Eligible imports would be all goods
except those normally excluded under Bank policy-based loans, such as
alcohol, tobacco, armaments, etc.; goods financed by other Bank loans; and
expenditures under contracts costing less than US$5,000 equivalent. A
maximum of 20% of the loan would be available to finance imports paid prior
to loan signature but after July 10, 1987, when appraisal was completed.
Disbursement, procurement, administration and auditing
72.      The Republic of Ecuador would be the borrower of the loan.  Bank
disbursements would be made under the Statement of Expenditures procedure.
As with previous loans to Ecuador, a Special Account (US$20 million) would
be set up to acceletate disbursements. The first tranche is expected to be
disbursed upon loan effectiveness and the second tranche after it has been
determined that the Government has taken the required policy actions. Such
determination is expected to occur within six months of loan signature.
The time limit for the availability of the second tranche is September
1988, which provides an ample period for the borrower to comply with the
agreed policies that ara required for tranche release. The BCE will be
responsible for the coordination and collection of relevant documentation
and preparing withdrawal applications under the loan
73.      For all purchases under US$5 million, private firms would follow
normal commercial practice and public sector importers would follow
standard Government practices, which ensure reasonable prices. All
purchases exceeding US$5 million would be through international competitive
bidding, in accordance with Bank guidelines.
74.      The BCE would maintain separate records and accounts of all
transactions under the loan. All such accounts would be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and the auditor's report
would be submitted to the Bank not later than four months after the end of



- 26 -
each Ecuadorian fiscal year. Audit reports would include a separate
opinion with respect to the disbursement requests submitted to the Bank on
the basis of Statements of Expenditures and state whether such requests
have been affected in accordance with the terms of the Loan agreement.
Monitoring and Tranche Release
75.      The progress of the financial sector reforms supported by the
proposed operation would be monitored through regular supervision,
including a continued close cooperation with the IMF. Release of the
second tranche would be contingent on specific financial sector reform
actions to be taken (see Annex V). Furthermore, release of the second
tranche would require the maintenance of satisfactory macroeconomic
performance, including a reduction in the public sector and balance of
payments current account deficits and in the growth of BCE credit.
Compliance with these conditions would be reviewed by a Bank Mission before
release of the second tranche.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
76.      Bank Group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan was
made for a First Highway Project. The Bank and IDA have extended 40 loans
and 6 credits to Ecuador totalling US$1,036.5 million net of cancellations.
As of June 30, 1987, US$760.5 million of this amount had been disbursed.
The IFC has invested in seven firms in Ecuador, including enterprises in
textiles, sugar, food processing. financial services, mining and cement.
As of June 30, 1987, commitments for these operations amounted to US$45.7
million, of which US$17.7 million was undisbursed.
77.      Execution of Bank Group financed projects has often been hampered
by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity, reflecting the
insufficiency of the country's public sector managerial and technical
resources--a constraint that is still a serious obstacle to Ecuador's
economic and social development. One effort directed at overcoming these
weaknesses is the Public Sector Management Project (Loan 2516-EC) which
focuses on fiscal management. Furthermore, in recent years, the Government
and Bank staff have worked together to step up disbursement of Bank loans.
Among other initiatives, a Special Action Program established revolving
funds in five projects. As a result of these general efforts,
disbursements rose from US$26 million in FY83 to US$176 million in FY87.
The Government has set up a monitoring committee for all externally
financed projects which should reinforce efforts to accelerate
disbursements. The Bank is undertaking annual portfolio implementation
reviews to detect and resolve specific obstacles to execut;nn of Bank-
financed projects. The latest took place in February 1987 and its
conclusions highlighted the need to provide adequate counterpart funding
and to improve project management.
78.      Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was c.iginally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were substantial bottlenecks to be
overcome. To date, approximately 25 percent of Bank Group lending has been
for infrastructure. Seven of the nine loans and credits extended for



- 27 -
transport were to improve the country's road network, and two were to help
finance an expansion of the port of Guayaquil. Three power operations
aimed at improving generation and distribution facilities in Quito; the
fourth power operation aimed at improving efficiency of sector
institutions.  The first Livestock Development Loan, apiroved in FY67,
marked the beginning of a diversification in the Bank Group's lending
program away from infrastructure. Since then, the Bank Group has made 10
other loans and credits for agriculture and fisheries, 9 loans to support
industrial development, 2 for pre-investment studies, and one each for
reconstruction of earthquake-damaged petroleum infrastructure and public
sector management. These productive sector loans comprise about 60 percent
of total Bank lending to Ecuador. Bank Group support for social sectors--
education, water supply and urban development--now accounts for about 15
percent of total Bank lending.
79.      Turning to the future, the Bank strategy is to-support Government
initiatives in macroeconomic and sector reforms over the medium term. This
would be achieved through a series of sector and project loans aimed
principally at supporting policy improvements in energy, agriculture, the
financial sector, industry, and developing social and economic
infrastructure, as well as addressing weaknesses in public sector
management. In addition to the design and adoption of adequate sector
policies, Bank lending will emphasize the &.aneration of exports and
employment. Projects in the housing, education, health and water supply
sectors will specifically target low-income groups. For the near term.
besides the proposed financial sector loan, the Bank is preparing a low
income housing operation, the present financial sector adjustment loan, and
an export development operation. The objective of the latter is to
accelerate the growth of exports, thus strengthening Ecuador's
creditworthiness and helping it return to an acceptable medium term growth
path in the aftermath of the March 1987 earthquake. In addition to Bank
lending, the IFC has approved recently investment operations in development
finance, gold mining and capital markets, and is considering a further
operation in development finance and an agribusiness line through a local
commercial bank.
80.      Substantial development financing has also been provided to
Ecuador by the Inter-American Development bank (IDB). the US Agency for
International Development (USAID) and, to a lesser extent, by other bi-
lateral sources. IDB has been the largest lender to Ecuador. Loans
outstanding (including undisbursed) from IDB as of december 31, 1986,
totalled about US$1.4 billion equivalent. Past IDB lending has been
concentrated in the power, agriculture, industry and transport fields.
Most of IDB's loans have come from the Fund for Special Operations and
carry concessional terms. It is likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's
major development lender in the immediate future with power, agriculture,
and socially oriented-projects continuing to account for a large share of
its lending program. By September 1986, USAID had about US$159 million in
outstanding loans to Ecuador (including undisbursed). In addition, USAID
has, since 1979, provided US$64 million in project grants and US$24 million
in balance-of-payments grants. Its program concentrates on urban
development, agriculture, health and the private sector. In addition to



- 28 -
maintaining close contact with USAID, IDB and other aid agencies to ensure
compatibility of programs, Bank staff have undertaken a public sector
investment review which could serve as the basis for a meeting of Ecuador's
creditors in 1988.
PART VI - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF
81.      The Bank and the IMF will continue collaborating in the review and
discussion of macroeconomic developments in Ecuador. This collaboration
will be particularly important during the first semester of 1988, when
significant adjustment policies are due to take place and when the Bank
will supervise the compliance with the policy program for the release of
the second tranche. The Fund's evaluation and recommendations of short
term macroeconomic policy actions and results is an important input in the
Bank's own evaluation of the adequacy of the macro framework for the
success of the financial policy program. Thus, the Bank will take into
account the Fund's iudgement in assessing whether macroeconomic conditions
warrant the release of the second tranche.
PART VII RECOMMENDATION
82.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 1, 1987



AWV7C T
-29-                                                       Page 1 of 4
ECUADOR - Key Nacroeconogic Indicators
trercent)
-. -. ---- -... -.. ---    -. ------                                                          . ..................................... _. ._ ........... .  _......  ..
.--Actual---   Estimate    i----------Projected----------'
1984     1985      198       1987      1988      1989     1990       1Q;
SOP Growth Rate                             4.2       4.5       2.-       -3.2     9.2       3.6       4.4        t,-
8SN  6rowth Rate                                      5.9       5.1      -3.1      9.9       4.2       4.8        S.5
GNt Growth Rate                                       4.7      -6.1       1.6       3.8      3.4       5.3        6.4
GNP/Capita Growth Rate                                2.9       2.2      -5.8       6.9       1.3      1.9        2.6
Dett Servite (Gillian US S1                1144      1060      1Q69      1080     1154      11a2      1141       1!'
Debt Serviceflls                           38.5      31.9      40,8      42.8     34.0      32.9      30.3       2!.
Dent Service/SDP                           10.9       8.5       8.9      10.a       9.9      9.2       8.-        8.
6ross Investaent/WDP                       18.3      18.6      18.3      19.6      18.0     17.9      17.9       17.9
Dosestic SavingsG6OF                       26.4      28.5      21.0      19.9     22.7      21.8      22.3       23.1
National Savings/GDP                       15.9      19.8      13.8      13.0      16.1     15.7      16.4       V7.7
-arginal National Saving% Rate                        1.1       1.0      -1.0       1.4      0.1       6.3        0.4
Public Investeentt4DP                                 7.1       8.6       9.3      7.9       7.7       7.6        7.6
Public Savingsl6DP                                    8.6       4.5       0.0       4.5       5.5      6.5        9 '
Private tnvesteent/GDP                                9.6       8.2       8.8       8.6      8.7       8.8        a.9
Private Savings/SDF                                  11.2      11.5      13.0     11.6      10.2       9.9       10.
Ratio of Public/Private Investernt                   38.3      47.0      47.6     43.7      43.1      42.6       42.2
Government Revenueu/GDP                    29.2      29.2      24.5     22.0      25.0      26.3      27.0     -27.0
Government Expenditures/G0P                26.5      2b.7      28.6      31.3     28.4      28.5      28.1       27.1
Delicitc-i or Surplust+)/GDP                1.7       1.5      -4.1      -9.3     -3.4      -2.2      -1.1       -(.1
Export Srowth Rate                         13.3      17.7       4.1    -18.4      39.9      -0.:       5.0        4.7
Non-traditional Export 6rowth Rate         38.8 .    6.9       23.8     34.4      13.3      11.0       9.6       1 .
Eqorts/SDP                                 27.5      31.0      31.3      26.4     33.8    -32.5       32.7       I.LI
I:port Growth Rate                          1.1       7.8      -8.5       4.5     -1.3       2.6       4.7        4.6
I vortsMPDP                                19.4      20.0      17.8     19.2      17.3      16.3      16.3      l."
Current Account (million US S)             -248       126      -64'      -938     -3'v    -397        -271        -47
Current Account/GOP                        -2.4       1.0      -5.3      -9.2     -3.0      -3.1      -2.1       -0.3
Source:  Central Bank of Ecuador for historic data;  Norld Bank estiates for projected data.
i5-Oct-87



ANNEX I
- 3n -                                                                    Page 2 of 4
ECUAD3; -- BA4AhuE OF PAMEIMETS
(US$ sallions at Current Pricesl
----------------Actual ---------------            Est.    ------------------Frojected--------
1I9B     1982      1983      1984      1985      198b      1987       1968      1989     194.      lP41
A. Exports of 60o0d  0 NfS              2912.9   2686.6   2642.9   2894.8   3295.0   2590.1   2491.3    3362.6   351.8  31738.5   411-.1
1. he' a-.disv                       25:.9   2327.6   2347.9   2621.6   2906.0   2187.1   2047,7    2E75.5   29t5,7   31B!,                 M 2',C,
2. hon-factor Sernices                386.0    35S9.      295.0    273.0    389.0    403.0    443.6         487.2    534.1    557.5    5E7.2
L. IODorts of 6oods I NFS               3158.2   28b5.2   1821.6   2040.0   2202.4   2266.0   2467.e    2659.1   2828.0   2942.2   31ii.
1. Me'char::se                       275-.-  5   2187.2   1420.6   1567.0   1611.4   1631.0   1817.0   182.9   1974.1   2053.4   21t 4.9
2. Noe-Factor Senaces                 806.0    678.0    401.0    473.0    591.0    635.0    650.6           776.2    853.9    88E.8    944.0
C. Reso.rce Wairce                      -24M.t   -178.b    821.3    854.8   1092.6    324.1           23.5      703.6    675.6    79o.3    9E4.2
D. Net Fa:tor Icnoae                    -772.0  -1042.0   -984.0  -1123.0  -1046.6  -1011.1  -1031.1   -1103.6  -1123,.0  -1117.t  -1  1
1. Facto, Receipts                     87.0      48.0      45.0     77.0      33.0      28.0      33.6       33.3      32.2      22.1      21.3
. Fa.tcr Faver ts                    -8S9.0  -1090.0  -1029.0  -1200.0  -1079.6  -10539.1  -1064.7   -1137.0  -1155.1  -11           -11'.5
(Interest Payaents)              -626.0   -821.0   -772.0   -955.0   -830.5   -773.7   -785.7    -843..0   -84;.1   -805.6   -748,5
E. Met Current Trjnsfers                  25.0      20.0      24.0      20.0       0.0     45.0      70.0       50.0     50.0      5G.0      50.s
F. Current Account tEiar:e              -992.6  -1200.6   -138.7   -248.2    126.0   -642.0   -937.6    -350.1   -397.2   -271.2    -47.0
6.  Long-Term  tcatel Inflol            1315.0    400.0    597.0    351.0    421.8    709.5    937.6           430.1    487.2    371.2    157.0
1. Direct  nvecstoert                  60.0      40.0      5O.0     50.0      62.0      70.0      80.0       90.0    100.0    120.0    14..0
N. oet PLt Lors                      12;5.0    360.1    547.0    301.0    359.8    639.5    857.6           340.1    367.2    251.2        17.0
Pf. Tcta! 8the  Itess                   -60q.4    340.6   -516.3    -83.8   -522.8   -119.5           0.0         0        0.0       0.0       0.0
I. Charges ;n Net Reserves               287.0    460.0       S8.0    -19.0    -25.0       52.0       0.0      -80.0    -90.0   -100.0   -110.0
1. Net Credat froa tte lhF              0.'J      0.0    217.6      40.4      85.7      76.7        -          -         --        --
2. Uther Reserve Changes              287.0    460.0   -159.6    -59.4   -110.7    -24.7            --         --        --        --        --
1- irdacates Inc'ease)
Shares of SIP icu,rert bS$J
1. Reso.ce Balance                    -1.8      -1.4       7.8      8.4       8.7       2.7       0.2        6.0       5.4       6.1       7.1
2. Total loterest Fayments             -4.5      -6.6      -7.3     -9.4      -6.6      -6.4      -7.7       -7.2      -6.7      -6.       -5.4
3. C.' e9 4:Coy.t  aarace              -7.1      -9.6      -1.3      -2.4       1.0     -5.3      -9.2       -3.0      -3.1      -2.       -.
4, 0  laws .;4 Inl1o  nin.e 6           9.4       3.2       5.6      3.5       3.4       5.9       9.2        3,7       3.9       2.        1.1
5. Net Credit fron IlF                  0.0       0.0       ;.t      0.4       0.7       0.6        --         --        --        --        --
Remorandda Ites:
8DF taOllions of current USt1        13,946   12,447   10,591   10,135   12,545   12,051   10,172    11,633   12,625   13,147   13,2q
Foreigrn Exchange Reserves:
1. Int'l Reserves                     632.4    304.2    644.5    611.2    718.2    644.1            --         --        --        --        --
2. 6cl  (end yr. London price         17.5    124.3    124.3    124.3    124.3    124.3            --         --        --        --        --
'. fross Rese,ves intlutain  SIot   649.q    428.5    768.8   7M5_5    842.5    768.4               --         --        --        --        --
4. 6r. Res.cn months Jeports            ;.S       1.8       5.1      4.3       4.6       4.1        --         --        --        --
Exctnpe Rates (SucresiUS$):
1. No4. Off. I-Rate                    25.0      30.0     44.1      62.5      69.6    122.5         -          --        --        --       --
2. Real Eff. I-Rate (980=100)          91.4    103.2    109.6    127.1    121.6    171.8            --         --        --        --       --
3. I-Rate for 68D  Conmersion          25.0      33.4      52.9     79.5      91.5    122.5    186.9        223.2    251.e    295.0    3U4.9
Source: Central Bank of Ecuador for historic data; lorld lant estimates for projected data.
25-ik,v-87



ANNEX I
- 31 -                                 Page 3 of 4
ECUADOR
Financial Sector Adiustment Loan
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IV ECUADOR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1987)
Loan or                                                     --  US$ million--------
Credit                                                   Amount (less cancellations)
Number       Year   Borrower            Purpose          Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Twenty three loans and six credits fully disbursed    291.3   37.5           -
1644         1978   Ecuador    Rural Development          18.0    -          9.0
1776         1979   Ecuador    Guayaquil Urban            31.0    -          6.9
Development
1882         1980   Ecuador    Highways                   55.0    -         18.4
1991         1981   Ecuador    Rural Development          16.9    -         13.0
2044         1981   Ecuador    Rural Development          16.1    -         12.1
2096         1982   Ecuador    DFC                        60.0    -          0.9
2135         1982   Ecuador    Housing                    35.7    -         13.2
2171         1982   Ecuador    Education                  16.0    -         10.8
2221         1q82   Ecuador    Small-Scale                40.6    -          0.2
Enterprise Credit
2516         1985   Ecuador    Public Sector               6.0    -          4.0
Management
2626         1985   Ecuador    Agriculture Sector        100.0    -         15.2
2672         1986   Ecuador    Industrial Finance        115.0    -         49.e
2673         1986   Ecuador    Third Small-Scale          30.0    -         12.5
Enterprise Credit
2713         1986   Ecuador    Power Sector                8.5    -          8.5
Improvement
2752         1986   Ecuador    Agriculture Credit         48.0    -         48.0
27741        1986   EMAP-G      Guayaquil Water           31.0    -         31.0
Supply II
2803         1987   Ecuador    Petro Reconstruction    80.0    -            29.6
Total                                                    999.1   37.5
of which has been repaid                               222.3    3.7
Total now outstanding                                    776.8   33.8
Amount sold                                                3.2
of which has been repaid                                 3.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                           773.6   33.8        -
Total undisbursed                                                          283.2
1/ Not yet effective.



-32-                                      ANNEX I.
Page 4 of 4
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1987)
Type of    (amount in US$ million)
Year                                            Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S. A.             Textiles        3.7     0.2       3.9
1969, 1973,   Compania Financiera
1975, 1977    Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo
1981 & 1982      S.A. (COFIEC)                    DFC             -       0.5       0.5
1976           Sociedad Agricola e Industrial
San Carlos, S.A.                 Sugar Mill    5.0       -         5.0
1978, 1980,
1982, 1983,
& 1984         Cemento Nacional (CEM)             Cement         12.0     1.0      13.0
1980           Adamas Andina, S.A.1               Pulp and
Paper         3.3     1.0       4.3
1981           Compania Minera Toachi, S.A.       Mining          1.0     0.3       1.3
1987           Minera Kolla                       Mining          9.0     4.4      13.4
Total gross commitments                                          34.0     7.4      41.4
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales           24.6     1.6      26.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                                 9.4     5.8      15.2
Total undisbursed                                                 9.0     4.4      13.4
1/ Cancelled by letter of April 26, 1982.



- 33 -
Annex II
Page . of 2
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken by the Country to Prepare Project: 22 months
(b) Project Prepared by: Ministry of Finance, Central Bank, and
Superintendency of Banks
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: June 1987
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: June 1987
(e) Completion of Negotiationst November 23, 1987
(f) Planned date for Effectiveness: December 29, 1987
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action:
None
Section III: Special Conditions:
The following conditions have been established for the release of the
second tranche:
1.   Policies to further reduce the dependence of FIs on BCE credit
(a) BCE should not have conducted any new operations in a set of credit
lines as agreed during negotiations (para. 41);
(b) total BCE credit to the private sector (i.e., excluding credit to the
non-financial public sector) should have decreased in real terms by at
least 25% before release of the second tranche and by 351 before the end of
1988, in relation to the volume outstanding at the end of 1986 (para. 41);
(c) the minimum rate on BCE preferential credit should have been adjusted
to within 5 points of the 90-day CD rate (para. 42);
(d) terms of renewal for the "Creditos de Estabilizaciono should have been
published, indicating that less than 50? of the outstanding credits have
been refinanced at a minimum interest rate at least equal to the market
determined Certificate of Deposit rate (para. 43).



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
2.    Policies to further strengthen the financial institutions
(a) Beginning the second semester of 1987, FI's should not distribute cash
dividends in order to make the necessary provisions, write-offs and
capitalization (pa.a. 48);
(b) by the end of 1987, the Monetary Board should have established, to the
Bank's satisfaction, regulations regarding the minimum ratio of capital to
risk assets to take effect from the beginning of 1988, with a th;ee-year
maximum adjustment period (para. 47);
(c) by the end of 1987, the Monetary Board should have issued regulations
that are acceptable to the Bank to control FI's operations with mutually
related parties; the SB will identify these operations and begin a three
year program during the first semester of 1988 to reduce excess exposures
(para 47);
(d) starting financial year 1987, external auditors should be required to
prepare complementary reports on FI's portfolio and profits for review with
SB (para. 47);
(e) rehabilitation programs should have been started for all FIs that do
not meet critical capital adequacy or liquidity limits but that as a result
of a review by SB and BCE it is determined that they can be recapitalized
(para. 48);
(f) SB should have contracted technical assistance in the four areas listed
in para. 50; and
(g) draft legislation that is acceptable to t..e Bank should htave been
prepared on a mechanism to refloat troubled financial institutions and
guarantee their deposits (para. 49).
3.   Policies to improve the conditions for long term finance
(a) On-lending rates on operations financed by international credit
institutions should have been adjusted to the level of the market
determined interest rate on 90-day CDs (para. 53);
(b) Draft legislation that is acceptable to the Bank should be prepared to
exempt adjustable rate lending from interest rate ceilings (para. 53);
(c) An auction market in Treasury Bills issued by the Government or
Stabilization Bonds issued by the BCE should have been introduced and be in
place (para. 55).
(d) biases against business equity finance should have been identified, a
plan of action that is acceptable to the Bank should have been devised to
address existing biases, and required draft legislation should be ready
(para. 56).
4.   Satisfactory Macroeconomic Policy



ANNEX III
; =v  35                        Page 1 of 10
REPUBLICA DEL ECUADOR
MINIIS3IO DE PINANZ
3921
1 3 Jut. mv
Mister
Barber Conable
President
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington D. C.
USA
Dear Mister Conable:
The Government of Ecuador has been carrying out a far-reaching program
of financial sector reform* with the basic objective of improving the
mobilization and allocatlin of financial resources.  The program  thus far
has involved important measures that have helped Ecuador to increase the
volume of domestic financial intermediation and improve indicators of
efficiency and stability.  The Government believes that these achievements
and the policies in other areas such as the trade and exchange rate
regimes have helped the economy to partially compensate for the adverse
effects on growth of the international credit crunch, the fall in the price
of petroleum, and the recent devastating earthquake.
The stated basic objective of financial sector reform has been pursued by
strengthening financial institutions, reducing the dependency of financial
institutions on Central Bank credit and improving the conditions for long
term finance.  During 1987 and 1988, financial sector policy will continue
focusing on these strategies in order to improve and consolidate them.  To
do  this,  the  program   will  involve  additional  regulatory  changes,
administrative  actions,  financial  support  to  financial  institutions  in
distress, and technical assistance to the Superintendency of Banks.  The
accompanying STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICIES describes with
scme detail the program that has been carried out thus far and its
continuation through 1988.
The Government is committed to carry forward its financial sector program
as indicated and sc.eduled l. the accompanying attachment and it would



ANNEX III
-36 -                          Page 2 of 10
REPUBIUCA DEL ECUADOR                                         3921
lTIB10TEJ  DEi I lNA1PA
welcome the opportunity to discuss the contents and scope of the program
with the World Bank.  The commitment to financial sector reform  is one
part of the broader policity framework to improve the conditions for
economic growth and stability.  Within this framework, external finance is
an important complement to domestic financial resources.  I am therefore
writing you at this time to request a Financial Sector Adjustment loan in
the amount of US$100 million to assist the Country in bridging its external
resource gap.
Yo s sincerely,
Rodrio  spinosa BermqpZ
MINISTER OF Fl NC            LIC CREDIT
.s 
* .'



- 37-                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 10
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICIES
1987 - 1988
The Government of Ecuador has undertaken a far-reaching program of
financial reform. The basic objectives of this program are to strengthen
financial institutions (PE's) in order to allow them to intermediate a
larger volume of financial resources efficiently in accordance with the
demands of the market. The most important measures taken thus far to carry
out this policy of finaicial reform aret
1. Reduction in the rate of inflation from 482 in 1983 to 232 in 1986;
2. Floating of the exchange rate and allowing private sector foreign
exchange transactions to go through markets outside the Banco Central de
Ecuador (BCE);
3. Reforming the Banking law to facilitate mergers among and between banks
and Companias Financieras (DFCs);
4. Requiring Fl's to create or increase their provisions for bad debts;
5. Facilitating the more rapid write-off of bad debts;
6. Expanding the capacity of the Superintendency of Banks (SB) to regulate
Fl's through training courses and acquisition of data processing equipment;
7.  Developing "Rehabilitation Programs' for Fl's in difficulty;
8. Creating a Certificate of Deposit (Poliza de Acumulacion Especial)
whose interest rate was freely determined;
9. Creating adjustable rates on loans with resources from the BCE or
international institutions;
10. Subsequent freeing of the interest rate on all deposit instruments,
and freeing of interest rates on all lending instruments except BCE lines
of credit and adjustable rate lending;
11. Significantly reducing the real value of BCE credit to El's;
12. Increasing the interest rates charged on BCE credit to bring them into
closer alignment with market interest rates;
13. Merging of eleven different credit lines into one fund, and
elimination of several other Central Bank lines of credit;
14. Allowing the 4evelopment of an interbank loan market;
15. Elimination of prior deposits on imports;
16. Issuing of a government bond with a variable market-determined rate of
interest;



- 38 -                                ANNEX III
Page 4 of 10
17. Collecting and publishing information of market interest rate paid and
charged by Fl's;
18. Permitting Fl's to partially capitalize interest in order to adjust
the loan terms to the borrower's cash flow;
19. changing the Companies law to permit firms to issue bonds not backed
by specific real assets. to require higher minimum capital, and to require
external auditing of larger firms;
20. Contracting consultants from the International Labor office to examine
the looming financial problems of the Social Security System. (IESS).
Notwithstanding an extremely difficult environment -- the debt crisis and
the fall in the prices of petroleum -- the results of the reforms in the
financial sector have been clear and positive. Resource mobilization has
accelerated; non-monetary deposits of the financial system have risen from
17.82 of GPD in 1983 to 19.2? in 1986. Over US$400 million equivalent have
been mobilized with the new Certificate of Deposit. The proportion of
credit to the private sector coming from BCE and forced investments has
fallen from 55? in 1984 to 44? in 1986. The average real rate of interest
charged by BCE on its credit lines rose from -12.2? in 1984 to -3.22 in
1986. Consequently, the aggregate credit subsidy fell from $49.161 million
in 1984 to only S/. 6.180 million ir. 1986 (both in 1986 prices).
Provisions for bad debts as a percent of the portfolios of FI's have risen
from 0.92 in 1983 to 1.72 in 1986. The ratio of total risk assets to
equity of private banks decreased form 18.2 in 1985 to 14.2 in 1986; that
of DFI's has fallen form 14.7 i3 1986 to 13.6 in 1986. The indebtedness of
non-financial firms has declined from 3.8 times equity in 1984 to 2.5 in
1985. All of these are indications that the economy has responded well to
the policies adopted thus far.
Nevertheless, the Government is aware that the financial reform program
must continue in order to consolidate and complement the reforms already
undertaken. Consequently, the Government has designed a specific packge of
further reforms to be carried out during 1987 and 1988 and has developed a
medium-term for policy thereafter. These reforms are aimed at the
following objectives:
1.  Further strengthening of FI's;
2. Reducing still more the dependency of Fl's on BCE;
3. Improving Conditions for long term finance.
By pursuing these objectives, financial policy will continue to support an
orderly movement toward a more efficient financial sector. This process
will increase the stability of FI's and improve the mobilization and
allocation of domestic financial resources, thereby contributing to growth
and financial stability. Ecuador is still at a very early stage of
financial development and should, given a favorable policy framework, be
able to increase the volume of credit outstanding and of financial assets
held by the public at a faster pace 'than the rate of economic growth for
many years to come. This financial deepening of the economy and the
efficiency of resource mobilization will be facilitated by a consolidation



39 -                              AN'INEX III
Page ' of 10
in the number of financial institutions where warranted, by permitting tne
formation of new financial institutions that may wish to compete in
existing markets or serve new markets, by the maintenance of a market-
oriented interest rate policy and a reduction in the dependence of Fl's on
BCE credit, and by the promotion of long term financial market instruments.
At the same time, the contribution of these policies to the stated
objectives will be supported by maintaining the Government medium term
economic adjustment and reactivation strategies in the trade, exchange
rate, and other policy areas. The specific financial sector measures to be
carried out to pursue these objectives are outlined below.
STRENGTHENING FINANCIAL INSTITUTPIONS
FI's and their clients have been hard hit by the sudden cut-off of foreign
credit, inflation and devaluation coming on the heels of a decade during
which they had become highly dependent on BCE and foreign resources and lax
in their credit policies. Many years will be required to restore FI's to
full health and some will not survive. The Superintendency of Banks (SB)
will be the key institution in guiding Fl's back to financial strength.
The Government's strategy for strengthening FI's is three foldt (1)
reforms in the ways Fl's are regulated; (2) reorient 'Rehabilitation
Programs' as a temporary institutional framework to deal with troubled
financial institutions; and (3) technical assistance for the SB to enable
it to carry out its augmented responsibilities.
Regulatory Changes
The Superintendency of Banks, over time and in a prudent manner, will
introduce the following changes in the regulations applying to Fl's:
1. The Superintendency of Banks will accelerate its program to determine
the quality of the portfolio of FI's, as assessed by Fl's themselves,
attested by external auditors, and examined by personel of SB. By October
of 1987, it will complete the portfolio quality evaluation of sixteen banks
of the larger and more risky and of all DFI's.
2. On the basis of its continuing evaluation of portfolio quality, the
Superintendency will ensure that, beginning en the second semester of 1987,
FI's do not distribute cash dividends to make the necessary provisions,
write-offs and capitalization.
3. Capital adequacy will be regulated in relation to the value of risk
assets, excluding cash and BCE deposits but including the guarantee
portfolio. To that effect, the Monetary Board will make use of the
existing provision to establish a minimum ratio of capital to risk assets
before the end of 1987 to take effect from the beginning of 1988. FI's
will be given a three-year maximum period to adjust their eapital or credit
operations accordingly but may not distribute cash dividends until the
required ratio is achieved.
4. The Superintendencv of Banks will review the issue of FI's operations
with mutually related firms and/or individuals, and will prepare by the end
of 1987, regulatory norms for approval by the Monetary Board and subsequent
publication.



ANNEX III
Page 6 of 10
5.  The Superintendency of Banks will identify lending or guarantee
operations with mutually related firms and/or individuals. During the
first semester of 1988 it will require that FI's that exceed established
norms begin a program to decrease excess rtsks by reducing the
corresponding credit operations or by injecting the required amount of
capital within a three-year period.
6. Beginning the second semester of 1987, F$'s will no longer include in
their income any overdue interest unless it is fully provisioned.
7. The external auditors will be required toi prepare complementary reports
on Fl's portfolio and profits for review with the Superintendency of Banks.
In particular, they will be instructed to evaluate portfolio quality on a
standard basis, to identify lending or guarantee operations with mutually
related firms and/or individuals that exceed accepted risk limits, and to
assess the adequacy of provisions and capital. These requirements will be
made explicit in the appointment letter from FI's to their external
auditors.
Troubled Financial Institutions
In order to deal with the problems of troubled FI's and avoid mistakes that
can occur in a crisis situation, the Government will strengthen and
redefine the BCE 'Rehabilitation Programs.' The principle guiding these
programs is to provide conditional financial assistance to those
institutions that have acceptable management and whose directors are
willing and able to provide the needed recapitalization. The Government
will bring together a core group of professionals who can take over the
direction of an institution when stockholders are unwilling or unable to
recapitalize the institution. In the latter case any shares acquired will
be held only temporarily until they can be sold to other private
shareholders.
Current 'Rehabilitation Programs* are initiated as a result of the Fl being
unable to repay its current debt to the BCE and consist essentially to a
medium to long term reprogramming of the Fl debt to the BCE on the
condition that they allocate all profits to strengthening the capital base.
The BCE also provides assistance by receiving from Fl's the real guarantee
assets that they have obtained from debtors as payment for the FI debt to
the BCE. These programs will be broadened to include those institutions
that do not meet critical capital adequacy or liquidity limits but that are
economically viable when refloated on the basis of an evaluation to be
performed by the Superintendency of Banks and the BCE. The programs will
be strengthened by conducting extended audits of all institutions
undergoing Rehabilitation Programs. In sum, the basic principles to guide
the process of consolidations of Fl's is the following:
1. Once the Superintendency of Banks determines that an Fl does not meet
critical capital adequacy or liquidity limits, a review would be undertaken
by the Superintendency and the BCE to determine whether the Fl can be
recapitalized.
2. If it is determined that the FI can be recapitalized, the
Superintendency of Banks will negotiate a program for recapitalization with



-4XI -                            ANNEX III
Page 7 of IC
the directors of the Fl. Such a program will restore capital adequacy in
no more than three years, with yearly intermediate targets.
3. Deviation from the recapitalization program, by more than 20 percent of
the agreed capital adequacy target in any one year will result in the
immediate cessation of BCE lending or rediscounting operations with the
delinquent Fl.
As even strengthened Rehabilitation Programs are not a fully satisfactory
way of dealing with troubled financial institutions, BCE, VIOF and SB will
study and discuss with the Bank the possible means to create a mechanism to
reorganize troubled financial institutions and guarantee the deposits of
such institution. Among the points to be reviewed are: the degree of
private sector participation in the direction and financing of such a
mechanism, its coverage among institutions, and its relation to Ministry of
Finance, BCE, SB. and other financial authorities. To be covered by the
mechanism a FI would have to undergo a special examination by external
auditors and staff of the SB aimed principally at determining the quality
of its portfolio so as to provide better information about the size of its
potential liabilities. Terms of reference will be prepared by October,
1987, and draft legislation by June 1988.
Technical Assistance
By March 1988, the Superintendency of Banks' will contract Technical
Assistance in four areas:
1. Portfolio inspection and classification and evaluation of provisions and
capital adequacy.
2. Evaluation of FI's credit risk policy, organization, procedures and
methods.
3. Use of information from FI's external auditors in supervision of FlIs.
4. Audit and supervision of FI's that operate in an electronic data
processing environment.
This technical assistance will be financed under World Bank loan 2096 or
earlier Bank loans, but to the extent that the appropriate services can be
financed at lower cost with bilateral or other multilateral institutions,
these other sources will be used.
REDUCING THE DEPENDENCY OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ON BCE CREDIT
The first aspect of this continued reduction in dependency is a further
contraction in the real volume of BCE credit and an improvement in the way
it is allocated. To these ends BCE will reduce the number-of active lines
of credit, decrease total real credit to the private sector and bring
interest rates on BCE lines closer,to market rates. These measures will
increase the efficiency of BCE credit by permitting a more flexible
allocation of total available BCE credit to the private sector.



42 -                              ANNEX III
Page 8 of 10
BCE will examine the following lines with a view to their consolidation or
transfer to private financing sources by end of 1987:
1. Development Bonds for Shrimp Larvae Laboratories
2. Bankers acceptances for Cotton
3.  Coimercial Bankers Acceptances
4. Capitalization of non-financial Firms
5. Exchange Losses
6. Guarantee and Performance Bonds
7.  Exchange Risk Commission
Moreover, after January 1, 1988 BCE will conduct no new operations in a
number of additional lines of credit. Identification of the lines of
credit to be discounted will be determined in a review to be discussed with
the Bank and to be completed by October 1987. The reduction in the number
of lines of credit will increase the efficiency of the BCE credit program
by permitting a more flexible allocation of BCE credit.
The total increase in the balances outstanding of BCE credit lines
(excluding foreign funded lines), which came to SI. 181.2 billion in 1986,
will be held to just under S/. 12.0 billion in 1987. The total real value
of these balances will decrease by 35t between December 1986 and December
1988. These measures will increase the allocative efficiency of the
financial system by increas.4ng the extert of intermediation done by private
Fl's at market determined rates of interest.
The second aspect of the continued r( action in Fl's dependency on BCE
credit is a market-oriented adjustment of interest rates on BCE credit
lines and on the corresponding Fl loans, known as 'Operaciones
Preferenciales". The Monetary Board will adjust the minimum controlled
interest rates on F1 preferential credit operations (except FODERUMA) to
within seven points of the rate on 90 day 'Poliza de Acumulacion' before
October of 1987, and to within five points of the rate before June of 1988.
Once a stable market in short term government paper (CDT's) has been
established, the Bank and the Government may mutually agree to set BCE
interest rates in relation %,o the the CDT.
The largest single line of credit form BCE is Sucretizacion (Creditos de
Estabilizacion.) Amortization of these credits is scheduled to begin in
1988. Any refinanced portion of the *Creditos de Estabilizacion' will be
less than 502 of the outstanding value at the time they are due and will
bear an adjustable interest rate no less than the free rate on the 'Poliza
de AcumulacionO. BCE will take offsetting measures to insure that the
rapid contraction in BCE credit does not lead to an undue overall
contraction in private credit.
IMPROVING CONDITIONS FOR LONG TERM FINANCE -
The law that established adjustable rate lending for long term contracts
made reference to the 'Maximum Convenational Rate' (Tasa Maxima Convencional
THC). As the TMC is set by the Monetary Board and has not kept in
predictable alignment with market rates, private Fl's have not been able to
use adjustable rates on loans funded from the market. The institutions



ANNEX III
Page 9 of 10
that are most likely affected by this apparent limit are the Mutualistas
and the Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda (BEV): mutualistas because they
get almost all their funds from the market and BEV because under the Low
Income Housing Project BEV is to raise an increasing share of its total
funds from the market. If the limit on long term lending with adjustable
interest rates is maintained, all long term lending vill have to be funded
by BCE, thereby seriously limiting the scope of the financial program.
In order to overcome this problem, the Government will review the
possibility to undertake the necessary changes, which require legislative
action. In the meantime, the Monetary Board will modify the application of
the law by permitting as frequent interest rate changes as needed in
adjustable rate lending. This change will take effect before October 1987.
Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda has developed a sophisticated scheme to
facilitate the purchase of a home to low income families by ensuring that
their periodic service payments do not exceed a given fraction or the wage
income during the life of the loan. By accomodating negative amortization,
variable maturity and adjustable interest rates, the system broadens the
home owning possibilities of low income families while protecting the
financial stability of BEV and promoting its mobilization of domestic
resources. In support of this initiatives, the Bank has appraised a loan
to BEV for a long term housing project.
There are three existing World Bank loans that have covenants on interest
rates to be charged to subborrowers. Unfortunately not all these covenants
are mutually consistent. An additional problem is the contracts make
reference to 'positive real interest rates' as measured by the rate of
inflation, notwitstanding that market determined real rates may well be
negative from time to time. In order to overcome these difficulties,
onlending rates under all credit projects funded by international
institutions will be set two points below the interest rate on 90-day
*Polizas de Acumulacion* before the end of October 1987, and will be set
equal to this rate before June 1988. Eventually, FI's would be permitted
to freely negotiate margins about the 90-day Poliza rate or other suitable
market indicator. The onlending rate on housing loans from BEV under the
Low Income Housing Project will be set three points above the average
market interest rate on savings accounts issued by FI's.
Another proposed Government action for the promotion of monetary and
financial market development is the creation of a market in a short term
government paper (Certificados de Tesoreria) CDT. Such a market will not
only provide the Government with some additional non-inflationary finance
and be useful as a tool of Monetary Management; it will also provide an
indicator of the nominal interest rate on a zero-risk asset, which is
lacking in the currently observed market for *Polizas de Acumulacion'.
This indicator could eventually be an alternative to the Poliza rate as a
benchmark for long-term lending from financial institutions. The first
issues of CDT's will have been conducted before the end of October 1987.
The Government also plans to issuq additional adjustable rate long term
bonds during the year.
The Government is particularly interested in strengthening the capital base
of financial institutions. To that effect the Superintendency of Banks has



-44 -
ANNEX III
Page 10 of 10
intensified its efforts to have institutions recover their lost equity and
will continue to do so until FI's effective leverage falls within prudent
limits. Moreover, measures have been enacted to allow the purchase of
equity with sucretized debts, and some capitalizations within this
framework are already under way. These debt-equity swaps will be further
facilitated by issuing variable rate bonds in exchange for the acquired
external debt. These measures are to be accompanied by others that
increase the cost of the sucretized debt as discussed above, and raise the
yield on equity.
The promotion of equity finance will also cover non-financial enterprises,
where the debt to equity ratio is close to 2.5. A high degree of business
leverage, inasmuch as it raises the risk of business insolvency, is a
contributing factor to financial sector instability. It appears,
nonetheless, that one of the weaknesses of Ecuador's fiscal system is to
discriminate unduly against equity finance. Of course, the availability of
subsidized credit from BCE is the single most important factor discouraging
capitalization. In addition to limiting and eventually eliminating the
interest rate subsidy, the institutional and economic factors that may act
as deterrents to equity finance will be identified, including the tax
environment, inflation induced distorsions, and the institutional frameworj.
to protect minority stockholders. Once the bias against equity is properly
diagnosed, the Government will propose a plan of action to correct this
bias. This plan of action, including proposals for required legislative
measures will be ready before June of 1988.
Rodrigo Espinosa
Ministro de Finanzas y Credito Publico



MACROECONOIC POLICY MATRIX
Wi=
Policy 3.foima
Poly Area                   Rdia ftm Objective                            Seceat MaSm    o I                           Further Acticn Planned
A. achnge Uintte         Pwintnin competitive egchwje rate to         ElCharie rate untfied ard devatued in    IIna,tain rese-flnst.
prunte  ard diversify exports and allow       l05 and early 1t%B; aucre freo-
me reductiona 1A indutral prse tion.    floated in Aug. 86 reaulti,g in a 3t>S
rea  depreciotion by end 1996.
B. Trade                 Reduce dispersion md  level of effective    1. *artrf refom in Januaqry 1t                t.  Continue r.,iedairs tjr. end tax
protection to better allocate recources          reduced ma  tariffs;                         exonerations.
by  increasig  aimpetitivene  ad             2. Quentitatlve restrictions tmd tax        2.  Introduce maim  tarirf.
oncouregisr effictent pnduction for the          eonerstiton  ware reduced                3.  lmplet wm  erfevtite UsYteM  of duty
d<.stic market. lIeeseing anti-export            signifiaently In I19l6.                      drawbacks.
bias, anl wtprovilg agricultural term         3. Distortionary system  of export         4.  Contitue radueieq  the levet mt4
or trade.                                        subsidies  as rueovd in Augut                dispersion or tarefrs.
4. DIty drawbeck legislation ms
pasted in early tIt7.
C. t'ids l'rietrel       Prites shoul1l rflect their opportunity       1.  any consumer price controls in          1.  Remoe reainswg priee controlj in
cost for ertonosc efficiency and to              agriculture were rmowved; producer           egriculLure.
raise ftcael rvenues.                            price supports mm sore clomaly
reflect their opportunity cost.
2. Dowutic petroisem prices were           2.  Inttroduce to tsyitem of crawl tii
rased by about 7t % in early l935           lpetrolem pricen to  aintain neil
and 6% in  ach 19th.                        silghtly )ncreiuz  their resl price L..
brind it into line with wurl harety
prices.
3. Electricity tarifts to final            3.  Have a one-shot incree  followe.4i by a
conseuer maiaed by 3% a month.              crwul or a faster crael in electr,: tty
tariffs to sore rapidly approach
merginal couts of production.
D. Public Inveslment    Investenit progri  should reflect              Vast majority of projects in recent         See Annex D of the recent Country ELoeomac
country priorities and inclkde only high    Investment ptrg   are good.                   lasoratle  Report II. (6'J.L'-W.
return projects to better allocate
public ntsources and meduce public
elptndi ture.
E.  enoanieial :; tr     1. 3trengthen the financial condition         Sue parms 13 and 16.                       See Attlchsent tII.
of feneencial enterprises.
2.  Iave  ariket-lassed tnterest rates for
the new tor.
5.  ISecnureq~ei Xlotg-teorm '.eope it
*let~vt. ut and Iesahat.g 
*to be spelled out in sore detail for C-rey Cover in line with progress in discussion
on IWF stand-by.



- 46 -                        ANNEX V
Page 1 of 6
ECUADOR
FINANCIAL POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVE I: REDUCE DEPENDENCE OF FIB ON BCE CREDIT
POLICY MEASURES          ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN   STEPS TO BE TAKEN
(Before presentation    BEFORE RELEASE OF
to the Board)            THE SECOND TRANCHE
Reducing the supply of  BCE's share in funding  Real value of BCE
BCE credit to FI's.    of FI's credit to the   credit to the private
private sector has been sector s:ould decrease
reduced from 50% in      by 35% between December
1984 to 38% in 1986.    1986 and December 1988;
a reduction of at least
25% should be completed
before release of the
second tranche.
Stabilization loans
should not be
refinanced in more than
50% of the outstanding
value at the time they
begin to be due.
Raising minimum          Minimum rate on BCE      Minimum rate on BCE
on-lending rates of BCE preferential credit       preferential credit
funds.                   has been raised to       is to be raised to
within 7 points below   within 5 points below
the market rate on       the market rate on
90-day certificates      90-day certificates
of deposit.              of deposit; minimum
rate is to be at least
equal to the level
of the market rate if
the market rate falls
to 20% or under.
The refinanced portion
of stabilization loans
from BCE to FIs should
bear an interest rate
at least as high as the
market rate on 90-day
certificates of deposit.
Reducing the number of  Eleven different cre-   No new operations on
BCE credit lines.        dit lines have been      identified credit lines
merged into one fund    should be conducted
and several others       starting the beginning
have been eliminated.   of 1988.
Additional credit
lines to be sup-
pressed or merged
have been identified.



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 6
- 47 -
POLICY MEASURES          ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN   STEPS TO BE TAKEN
(Before presentation    BEFORE RELEASE OF
to the Board)            SECOND TRANCHE
Promoting other sources A certificate of          none
of FI funding.           deposit with a market
determined interest
rate has been created,
and interest rates on
all deposit instruments
and on lending
instruments other than
those funded by BCE
have been freed.



ANNEX V
- 48 -                           Page 3 of 6
OBJECTIVE II: STRENGTHEN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
POLICY MEASURES          ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN   STEPS TO BE TAKEN
(Before presentation    BEFORE RELEASE OF
to the Board)            SECOND TRANCHE
Reforming thce Banking   Issue reform.             None
Law to facilitate
mergers among banks and
DFIs
Portfolio Quality        Sixteen banks, inclu-   External Auditors
Evaluation               ding the larger as        should have prepared
well as those e pected  first complementary
to have very laige       reports (for financial
portfolio losses; all   year 1987) on FI's
DFIs.                    portfolio and profits
for review with SB.
Exclusion of any         Issue SB regulation       None
overdue interest from
the Income of FI's
unless it is fully
provisioned
Creation of a            BCE has developed         Study and draft
mechanism to             rehabilitation plans    legislation, to the
reorganize troubled      for Fl's in difficulty. Bank's satisfaction,
financial institutions  Terms of reference for  should be completed.
and guarantee their      a study of the possible Rehabilitation plans
deposits.                creation of a new         should have been
mechanism have been      started for all FIs
completed.               that do not meet
critical capital
adequacy or liquidity
limits but that as a
result of a review by
SB and BCE it is
determined that they
can be recapitalized.



ANNEX V
- 49 -                      Page 4of 6
POLICY MEASURES          ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN   STEPS TO BE TAKEN
(Before presentation    BEFORE RELEASE OF
to the Board)            SECOND TRANCHE
Capitalization of FIs   Three banks and two       Monetary Board must
DFIs have entered        establish regulations,
Rehabilitation Pro-      to the Bank's satisfac-
grams.                   tion, regarding the mi-
nimum ratio of capital
to risk assets, to take
effect from the begin-
ning of 1988, with a
three year maximum
adjustment period.
The Superintendency of
Banks must have issued
regulations that are
acceptable to the Bank
to control operations
of FIs with mutually
related parties; SB
should have identified
these operations and
started a three year
program to reduce ex-
cess exposures of FIs.
Undercapitalized FIs
should not be allowed
to distribute cash
dividends.
Technical Assistance    Program has been          Contract should have
to SB                    drafted.                 been completed.



ANEX V
- 50 -                          Page 5 of 6
OBJECTIVE III: CREATE CONDITIONS FOR LONG TERM FINANCE
POLICY MEASURES          ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN   STEPS TO BE TAKEN
(Before presentation    BEFORE RELEASE OF
to the Board)            THE SECOND TRANCHE
Establish short term    BCE has started to        The Government must have
reference rate for       collect information on  started auctions of a
long term instruments.  short term market         first issue of Treasury
determined interest      bills or stabilization
rates paid and charged  bonds.
by FIs.
Promote variable rate   A long term Government  None.
long term financial      bond with a variable
instruments.             market interest rate
has been issued.
The Monetary Board has
authorized FIs to
change rates as
frequently as needed on
adjustable rate lending.
Lifting interest rate   The maximum on-lending  The maximum on-lending
ceilings on adjustable  rate on credit funded   rate on credit funded
rate instruments.        by international         by international
institutions has been   institutions must be
raised to within 2       raised to the level of
points below the market the market rate on
rate on 90-day           90-day certificates of
certificates of          deposit.
deposit                  Draft legislation
that is acceptable
to the Bank should be
submitted to exempt
adjustable rate lending
from interest rate
ceilings.
Promoting equity         BCE credit has been      Other biases against
finance.                 sharply reduced.         equity finance should
have been identified, a
plan of action that
is acceptable to the
Bank should have been
deviced to adress exist-
ing biases, and the
required legislation,
acceptable to the Bank,
should be ready.



ANNEX V
- 51 -                           Page 6 of 6
POLICY MEASUJRES         ACTIONS ALREADY TAKEN   STEPS TO BE TAKEN
(Before presentation    BEFORE RELEASE OF
to the Board)            THE SECOND TRANCHE
Promoting bond           Companies Law has         None
issues by busi-          been reformed to per-
nesses.                  mit firms to issue
bonds not backed by
specific real assets,
to require higher mi-
nimum capital, and to
require external audi-
ting of larger firms.



r 52S                                               AfINEX  VI
-52S        -  _                                       Page  1 of  4
W9J,LICA DIL UOUAOA
SUJIERINWMDENC1A DE 3ANCOS
oanP   OF A0IEIUT nOEIo nIrn TE SUPERINTENOENCY OF BASS VITO IESIECT TO THE CONTEST OF TECNNICAL
A8SZTACE UWE LOAM 2fi K-IC
1.   Reresentntives  f the Supeiateodency of bVas and U    th     w  it d kive Mt frequntly f dring the pWild
fro  Juno *3 through Ju   30, 1111 to (a)  rnvi   the relto d1 tk  tecklical Assistance progrts financed
under  Loa  *055-IC  ad implemted  durian  11I-lT; ad  (hb  uaidr frthe  th   roposed  techical
asistance por   ITA) povid           t f r   tle Torlld  ank's tIfdtrial Flafle Loa 2112-I.
2.   #ift  rn ct to th  hoe aa rougrm  of tniring  filned a                  o   20to 40, it was agred that th  tA
program  not  their ojective to  ten of contet  of ts trflieft,  qality d  atoria.  prested an4
poflessiol tacking  saff.  Courts  attandece, trai              itUrt sd  etuias    , Mout imporutat,
skills developet also meet  Su1erlteeACY goals. VIII respct t aIgMt 0e te1                     ial assisUacS
ogra  under Loa  212-IC,  d$scvuion  Ve h11  Is th  cuatt of the   w                 1ritoncy's letts of   y
25, 10I  to the  Sank M   to the  Ministry of Flwsc   r            Mtlmo  approval  to uS  0U8 *0,0     in Loe
proceeds to fino"   a fIe cmonset traingiq  effort  cnisting of:  ttads                  at  tio foroigl  saints,
finsecing of  bca  an,  two training   orm   fa  cador.   on saOt d   th   rog",  att"end                       of
Suorinfteey staff at a tranin  progra  live  by  the Feanl Reeve Sak (PU) Is VMahingtoa D.C. in
euly Juo, lilt had hoes approved ad Supertaeacy officials comleted the Fil trailing   ogram.
3.  "egrdinl the  use of  the  tproimately U    14 1,00" fi technical   ssistan  funs  currently available,
(after accouting for  the cots of the FBI  training progra), it wa agreed tkt  odifications would be
sade in the blace of tho TA rogra  proosd e  NAy 2i, III? to reflect, ier  ls:
(A) the higher than expected available balnce, after paysent for the FRi trning.
(I) The Svpetintendency's concern  to inprovo the intitutions aptility to  alag  supervilory inspection is
the all elctronic data  uiroent tht is  rigidly esrging am    cuador's comrcial Oaks ad finiance
companies.
(C) The  institution and  th  Bak"s  concern that  the  audit reports   rew ed by  the estornal  indepefdent
auditors for financial instItutions (f) are not being  fully integrsted lnto the min body of supervisory
inforatios rerding ptfolio 4ulity and risk, provisions  for bad debt, evaluation of internal control
system lad sovluatio   of s11 pif last policies, practies   sod proeedurs relEtian to  the above.  These
audit inforatio  arl gathered; in  line with Art.  1), (LinOs I an  4)  Of lesulution 185-155 Of FebrurY
1.  1ill, a   ame nd       hFmry 15,  1510, which  provides tht  th  tere   of reference  and resulting
eternal audit  eot  ke se   to the supeintndewy.
(0) The  Soorieteadecy and  the ink's  concern that  the portfolio  problem of  F.I. atise  in sutstantill
mere  becuse  F.l.  lack aodrn  credit  risk  MRa gmat  policy  and practices.   Thus,  supervisory
insetion   Ied is  the futwr  incresitaly foc a    the  uality of credit risk  Unagecoat policy, SU
organizatio, ad metho   ad practices to isure tht be  lning ad prtfolio risk is roduced.
4.   It wa  agreed that the  request of ly 21, 1I?, uould h   adied ad that th e proposed progran  1(b) and
(c) and  IMb) to  ho undertakam  by ICAI  would be  efinataly  ostpeWd of drop0ed from  tbe prograe.
Regrding  roram 21a) on credit aNalylis and  evalution of portfolio, this orogra, lappars proaltsng and
should be isplenented in line vit  aneants proposed under TA progra  4.  (Attachent A).
.   the hank Nhslion and the Superintendency task force  have agreed e  n outline  for tho training compoents
(Attachent Al.   It to exctad that the   Utiled teros  of reference ffo th es programs  ald poaSib
contractors could be submitted to the Bank durinl Aulgt 1551.



REPULICA CIL ICUADOR
SUPERINTENDENCIADE IANCOS                                                                                            ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 4
TENICAL SIICIt:   II 01
Di  OA       f Ifllth iIets    W . ItISSl i      la US1AI     1unmii, llrillalaintaitin   j knki
ajorf independea   e1taIral aitingti f ir   are  engae  by  finacial litttioii   tht wish  to providt
asurncS  to  shateIholdels  Oa  to  Corresonnt   ak   that  tkeir  fiacial reports  Ut  alcrate.
cosistent u   In line vith widely  acected accutinl prtctice.   ton  Mktg bas ln  less developed
countrie  also u   vol  established eiteral auditorl to identify plicy ad  p1ocedWl gs andlor lack
of ade"te  conl oes? thoir  resource.  Isto uar  th  Serintedaca leolutig   *-gg  grovites
that sil  baks out use acceptble  externl auditors and details  the tjor tab  tht  tA auitor Eat
perfore.  Th  roules  lso provide that a Copy of tht audit rsort nst to subeittad to the luerit"entacy.
the auditor reports inter alia: os te adq"ucy of  provision  for bad de , the qulity of portfolio at
the  ad acy  of it  classification.   If the auditor's  vie   on  sterial  iue  of rortint  o  policy
differ ftro  those of the ma"n      t of a bank, tad  Uhes  diffetrc    Cant h  resolved, thn the 4dlet
will qulify  tas   auditor  rwrt.  torsally  quliitid atdios f           rer   reult  in negitivt  aCtions by
cortenWing bank   anid internatioagl lending inatitutions.   Th  Superintendency ha  in  the past rarely
used or acted uW  th  results of external  udits.
2.    hectiva:To provide supervisory stff  with a detiled understandin  It ho   haern audits are conducted.
The aojectie would be  that the Superintandency inspection staff could learn hov  to better integrate to
data bas SO, t     opinion  Gat f inilgs of the externl auditor into  the supervisory prcmess and tasrely
improve  the overall qualtty and  utility of  supervision.   The orogra   would  lso  ave tho  seondary
objectives of introducing  supervisory staff to 11 the   roces" used by the external auditor to evaluate
the adequacy of  key policies and 12)  utho   used by exteral  auditors to conduct audits  in EDP record
keepinl environenltB.
3.   TlRinin  Prulaa: t could conist  of a detailed review and decrition of  the sethodology and proedtures
tht  a Soeae     aternal auiting  fire would  use in  the otrOetration  for an  execution of  an audit  of
comrcial bank.  This wold inCluet: revies  of auditing stadrds and proceures, ant lst important let
a ditailed  relvw  of  the  auditors   ethOdololy   for  evaluating  the  polices  underlying  poftfol'q
classification  and adternce  o   "ealuati   to  polity  Ib)  reviews of  sthod1oloy  for ulzaining  ail
evaluation portfolio quality  ad underlying value of  outforting loan guarntees and  (cI  methOdology for
testinlg  aUay  of the  "lea           o tserve  accwt.  the  trainig  Dorraft"    ould also  provioe  the
Sunriagendency with the  tools  ede  to  ivalute  tao adequacy of individual bank   udits using sutflars
Audit estsoire paoasg  that Uy be revietlc  with the external auitors.
4.    At tue ed of th  program the superintendency wolid develop a   fore detailed untersUtading of tat socra""1
and  rality  of  exteronl auditing  and  learn  to  batter  integrate the  external  auditor's  portfoll:
evaluations.  It  ould also help the SuOpeinteOdency to raise the overall standards of  xteurnal asnh end
tOe  fInancial  intereiaries Appreciation  of  its  extrnal auditor's  guidance  in  too reso'utioa  of
Accounting, oliCy or financial control issUes.  It would introduce  uerftoRendnty's staff to the ast::s
for reoilving tha problems of inspection tO an all EDP "vironsnft and the importance of Imscecticl ef
bant policy and compliance with policy.



ISPUDICA CIL ICUASON                                                                              ANNEX  VI
SUPERDI4TENDENC1ADE D  ANCOS                             - 54                                              Page 3 of 4
5.     Ugjsjtio; The trailing program  Col  be conuted by a ajor international  ateral adlt firs failiar
with operations i   kip  tech nulg      de"looIng techolog    virsummt.   A waivesity with reognized
leatdrship is the  field of traisigl la auit  tloy to  gractice liPt participate it  the pogtram.  The
ajor  edit firs  that "m w for  siuifiea   properti   o   bof                auitilg  is  the coutry  ahkl
paticipat  is te smiar o  hw the qulity  of M    accnting am  fIancil reorting is  cua   could
be  improved  id  bow th   work  of the  adit CoMity  My Ws              to  hel  improve  overill qulity  of
augervioin of operation of banks.
TWCIEfCAL ASISWIUL UhL it
t. RggjM   joinagsoel   lint           OQLsauitgia. g uLggngj id  ktkI: Mode  boaks have edoted a Structure
of policy,   rganiatioc, proceedvres  and matdaft  to control  risks arisig  frog leading.   Croit risk
uanagenat  include  control  of al  aspects of  ledig  operati  fre  the estabist isUCe of acre  or
sectorial lendifl  limits to the  qality of  credit analysis.  lisk  asageut policy and  procedure is
"orally eahodied  in a  mual that  includes asoa tH   infomtto  flow  ed control$  etablishe.  It
frequently  contains  all of  the  form,  mthods aW   procedurs  etdlished  for credit    d  oproject
evaluatlon.
2.   obictcive:Suptrvisory practice is Ecuador currently includs detaild  evalutions of portfolio qulity and
risks arising t rau lOa  ccentratio, bad credit risks, loa  poory nalized, etc.  Supervisory practice
does  not yet  includ   a  iaspctin  of  the adeuacy  of creit  risk  w ma            t policy,  organization
proceedure  and  methods  esignd to  redueo  bad  landing  practice  a   inadequate  credit  evalutin.
S"upesory practice ha  i the out beas directe   toward fftijsj Ik ftLUf              itlistil lolic  ratne.
than the adequacy   oollcy designed to mnag, control and redue credit risk and  coo  portfolio.  Thw
objective of  this progra  wuld  be to  introduco unior oprating  mnagoent of the  Superintetdency t(
aodora banks plicy ad oractice is the area of credit risk unaement.
J.   Trai.ini eggra,. It could consist of a detailed  reviw of the risk anaeaont policy ant oesration, Fr:
policy formlation throug  all  staie  of iplmntation ad its implications  for bankial oaorations.  I
possile the       l policy docmes ad procedues usld by will anaged s would be applied.
4.   lUiLill At  the end of the  program the Suoeritendency would  have full failiarity with  the conceot an
oplication of crodit risk unagmnt in several different banking environments and understand the  ettoo
by  which the  dioVre r  SW  seator manaers  inure  that such  policy is  enforced and  the quality  a
portfolio is  maintained.  It would  tb  the initial  Mto of introducing  into the Sunevision  Nangal tf
concept of insoectice of dequcy of risk umanag       t and other policis uad procedures dosigned to iarav
the overall quality of    k performanCe.
g.   Exfti.lon: this training  progra  might be appropriatey gliven  by a udare bank that  ha wail rccognizi
policy and procendure  and  that Was externl consulting ad trainil  ftatilities. Universities that es,
recognized Centers io banking and finance that work with dodern oanks to develop Policy ud practice 1u
also be appropriate candidate, for the training progran.  It is not likely that langage would be a "it
barrior to either of these or similar institutions. The lank could asist the Superintendent i:anti
othor posible training institutions, if required.



PIPUiLICA OIL 6CUASOK                                 -                                                Page  4 of ANNEX VI
SUPEROINI)NENCIA DE BACOSPae4o4
II.UIISAL SIISTAKCI:   J  a
I. -i1aut iantlaim o ea luL   20mI M    it u Wlutlais ha 'f"'se LU& IaiirmL
*    C-U;rcial  baks  of  ote   finanill  intitaio     Ur  increaSIY                 ll g  in  all  IVP  banking
vito nt  hini cluded joial i  ledger eateries its eletroi, p@rtf@ii, credit, incoes  and expenses
dt  are etiFilarly  uguod.   As a  direct reslt of  teC1nolo"g  Chale  Ii aCOuting  led fecordktiuong
auitors and  tns#cr  Mt  eeop  wthooloe   that  prmt  us to  Peta  into the  E0P enviroetet,
coplete a Satisfactory audit VW to ue the fOP capailities to Arin 1ts led reports.
I.   Blisoi-i. the  objectie  of the oe"trU  Wit be m   tItroA    5friatSikC  staff Into  the dotilid
struture of a  loP $yste  in s sten comrciel ban  an  tl atmeth od           d by external auditors to acces
the journals unt records of td e Pinecial ifistitltiOn an  verify all essetial rwords.     simulation of a
bank audit to a speified [OF eirolet would be conducted with a full discusiot  of problea  gad Iung
that MY fist during Us etercls.
3.   Tranine  Por=Thle  rogra   could consist  of lectures. discausionsed  exercises that  would provide
spe2rvisory stuff with the  technical skills needed to unelstad te  architecture No syste cBpontents
Of fOP opletions  in banks, inc flig hardae  nll  SoftwAr  COMonet  of the slyt, how they ae Ilnee
and Niw an auditor eay lnter the systse to peffora trsalttonl audit functions. tt is cmntlespated that
at least IS days of training would aO required to oriet s"ior steff and identify further neods for staff
training.
A.   Exerctimn:The tasks couid be divided into thrfee cmonents: (s) ao introduction to EOP systnes in oanks to
te  conducted, greferable,  by  a coapay  that  voult  hgve sustatial  practical  exserience to  desipa.
instaliltion and testinl of luck systm  and traini   of bank sutff (k) a odtailed exsositin of how aldit
end inspection  is conductd in a,  top enviromet by  a fire or  individual that have dtulaled            os an
experience is   OP bonk audit ad  (Il ussinars in which  soecific prollems of supervision  ano is:ectiza
or/and solutions sught fros the consultanc  Ilacturetl.
TECNIC   ASSISTlWANC   OLT g
1.   Portfolio !=   El  jnijjn  Portfolio Clalssification  jg  ProvisosI La Cau                t vict  "humSm ts:
the  contet of  this proira   is described  in section  2le) of  the Suocrintenoency  of bans's  Dram:se:
training  program.  thia  proeram which  wou  dt eonducted by  INCAE, ti  line with  tacit ofogsatl.  as
maded.   It  would fou   em:  Ill credit analysis,  (bi  nvluation  end classification  of  oor.tf':'
(includig  methoology  for  selecting portfolio  samoles  and  sale  sitao eft  valuating  ouallt   :f
guratees. ad (ci measurement f th  adequlcy of proVsioS  for loan losses, overIll creot: risks sf3 :n
that context lauvre te  deotm   of caiu l stricture.



NOTES



MAP SECTION



Som Lorenzo
ESMERALDAS
4  ornarones
Atocomets     ooRuono
Pto OL"to                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Logo Agr to
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
son cebshn del CocoTf-4t Etc6
Francsco de Orellono~
Bohto de Coroquez oSo Vaicnte
Montecristi   ~ RoVIeJO
Pto de Coyoi~ 
La CodeEo                  B  /



Mcwtecr;spi 
Pto de Coyoa ..u
INF
Samboronvenincn
v,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ae
.0 Cadeho ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ -R&lod
lo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot
GU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rvr
L,bL7 od~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  osPIIC) EGOS
to. IFOP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot
A  Y  c  Ttwfo                 Mccos~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ier
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ret
P~~~~~~t olw          so ERODUR RODS
-~~~ /                       Am4~~~~~y
Zumba ~ ~     ~      ~       ~     ~      ~            - -'I~~~Pve
___________________________ ___________________________ ____________  _____  _ Gravel



