Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2897 EC
                (Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated December 29, 1987
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2897 EC
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  December  29,  1987,  between  REPUBLIC OF
ECUADOR (the Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank  has  received  a  letter dated July 13,
1987,  from  the  Borrower   describing   a  program  of  actions,
objectives and policies  designed  to  reform its financial sector
by: (i) strengthening  financial  institutions;  (ii) reducing the
dependence of financial institutions  on credit from Banco Central
(as  that  term  is  hereinafter  defined);  and  (iii)  improving
conditions for the development  of  a capital market (such program
is  hereinafter  called  the  Program),  declaring  the Borrower's
commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and  requesting
assistance from  the  Bank  in  the  financing  of urgently needed
imports and services required during such execution; and
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of  the  Program  to provide such assistance to
the Borrower by making the  Loan  in two equal tranches as herein-
Page  2
after provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof  set  forth  below  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities that
     may be financed out of  the  proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
     the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c)  Not later than  six  months after the Closing Date
     or such later date as may  be agreed for this purpose between
     the Borrower and  the  Bank,  the  Borrower shall prepare and
     furnish to the  Bank  a  report,  of  such  scope and in such
     detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
     of the  program  referred  to  in  the  Preamble  to the Loan
     Agreement, the performance by  the  Borrower  and the Bank of
     their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
     accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
     (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the  Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Sucre" and "Sucres" mean the currency of the Borrower;
     (d)  "Superintendencia" means the Borrower's Superintendencia
de Bancos;
     (e)  "Banco Central"  means  Banco  Central  del Ecuador, the
Borrower's Central Bank;
     (f)  "Junta Monetaria" means  the Borrower's Junta Monetaria,
the Monetary Board responsible for the Borrower's monetary policy;
     (g)  "Financial Institutions" means  all  of the institutions
referred to in Article 17 of the Borrower's Ley General de Bancos,
as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (h)  "Redundant Credit Lines" means those credit lines of the
Banco Central which  have  been  identified,  in  the letter dated
December 10,  1987,  from  the  Banco  Central  to  the  Bank, for
purposes of paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (i)  "Creditos de Estabilizacion"  means  any credit extended
by Banco Central to Financial Institutions pursuant to the program
established through Regulacion de la Junta Monetaria No. 283-85 of
August  28,  1985,  published  in  Registro  Oficial  No.  271  of
September 13, 1985; and
Page  3
     (j)  "Polizas Rate" means the interest payable at any time on
Polizas  de  Acumulacion  that  have  been  issued  with  a 90-day
maturity period, as  published  in Informacion Estadistica Mensual
of Banco Central.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to one hundred
million dollars ($100,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in Banco Central on
terms and conditions satisfactory to  the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall be September 30, 1988,
or such later date  as  the  Bank  shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Borrower  the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08.  (a)  Banco  Central  is  designated  as repre-
sentative of the Borrower  for  the  purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be  taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Page  4
Borrower hereby entrusts Banco Central with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under  the Loan and for the
collection of the documents and  other evidence to be furnished to
the Bank in support of such applications. Such withdrawal applica-
tions shall, to the extent  practicable,  be consolidated so as to
apply  for  withdrawal  of  aggregate  amounts  of  not  less than
$5,000,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower  and  the Bank shall from time
to time, at the  request  of  either  party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in  carrying  out  the  Program  and the actions
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for  its  review  and comment, a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out  the  Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  shall  cause the Junta Monetaria,
the Banco Central and the Superintendencia to cooperate fully, and
to coordinate with, each other in the carrying out of the Program,
and to  take  all  actions,  including  legal,  administrative and
regulatory actions, necessary or  appropriate  in the carrying out
of the Program.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expen-
ditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account, for  each  fiscal year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  four months after the end
               of each such year,  a  certified copy of the report
               of such audit by  said  auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail  as  the  Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
Page  5
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The date of  March 29, 1988 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the  Ministro  de  Finanzas  y  Credito  Publico of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Publico
          Avenida 10 de Agosto y George Washington
          Quito
          Ecuador
          Cable address:                      Telex:
          MINFINANZAS                           2449 MINFIN ED
          Quito, Ecuador
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
Page  6
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                        By /s/ Miguel Salazar
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan  may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if  the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of  the  reasonable cost of goods and services
required during the execution  of  the  Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as  designated by the Bank by notice
to the Borrower:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                    -              Alcoholic beverages
      121                    -              Tobacco,       unmanu-
                                            factured,      tobacco
                                            refuse
      122                    -              Tobacco,  manufactured
                                            (whether  or  not con-
                                            taining  tobacco  sub-
                                            stitutes)
      525                    -              Radioactive  and asso-
                                            ciated materials
      667                    -              Pearls,  precious  and
                                            semi-precious  stones,
                                            unworked or worked
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      718                    718.7          Nuclear  reactors, and
                                            parts   thereof,  fuel
                                            elements (cartridges),
                                            non-irradiated     for
                                            nuclear reactors
Page  7
      897                    897.3          Jewelry    of    gold,
                                            silver   or   platinum
                                            group  metals  (except
                                            watches    and   watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths'
                                            or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
       971                      -           Gold,     non-monetary
                                            (excluding  gold  ores
                                            and concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of  $20,000,000 (twenty million dollars),
may be made in respect of  the Project on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date, but after July 10, 1987;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
shall have financed or agreed to finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
     (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to $10,000,000 for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan after the aggregate  of  the  proceeds  of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account  and  the  total  amount of such commitments
shall have reached the equivalent  of $50,000,000, unless the Bank
shall be satisfied, after  an  exchange  of  views as described in
Section 3.01 of this  Agreement  based on evidence satisfactory to
the Bank: (a) with the  progress  achieved  by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program, and (b) that the actions described in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 3
above, the Bank shall have  given  notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved  and  actions  taken  are  not satisfactory and,
within 90 days  after  such  notice,  the  Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then
the Bank may, by  notice  to  the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
     beginning August 15, 1992
     through August 15, 2004                         3,845,000
On February 15, 2005                                 3,875,000
_________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
Page  8
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
   Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                           .18
     before maturity
More than three years but                           .35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                             .65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          .88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years                                 1.00
     before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000  or  more  each  shall be awarded through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines  is deleted and the fol-
lowing is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such advertisements should be  placed  in  at least one news-
     paper of general circulation  in  the Borrower's country and,
     in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
               tion; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
Page  9
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $5,000,000 each shall be  awarded  on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan  Account  in  respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such  contract,  together with the analysis of
the respective bids and  recommendations  for award, a description
of the  advertising  and  tendering  procedures  followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documenta-
tion and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs 3 and 4 shall not
apply to contracts on  account  of  which  the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure.
6.   In addition to and without limitation on any other provisions
set forth in  this  schedule  3  or  the Guidelines, the following
principles of procurement  shall  expressly govern all procurement
of goods referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule:
     (a)  Bids  for  contract  awards  must  be  permitted  to  be
submitted, at the risk of the bidder, by mail.
     (b)  Bids  for  contract  awards   must  be  required  to  be
submitted in one  single  envelope,  and all information contained
therein must be considered simultaneously.
     (c)  Foreign bidders must  not  be  required  to have a local
representative for purposes  of  submitting  bids,  and, after the
submission of bids, may be required to have a local representative
only on a case-by-case basis in light of the circumstances of each
contract.
     (d)  Foreign  bidders  must   be   permitted  to  have  their
financial  solvency  certified  by  a  foreign  bank  without  re-
certification by any Ecuadorian bank or other Ecuadorian person or
entity.
     (e)  Bid and performance  guarantees  issued by foreign banks
must be admissible without re-certification or other participation
by any Ecuadorian bank or other Ecuadorian person or entity.
     (f)  Contracts must be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder
in accordance with criteria set forth in the bidding documents.
     (g)  Price  adjustment  clauses  must   be  permitted  to  be
included in all contracts.
     (h)  Letters of Credit issued  to  any supplier of goods must
not be required to be counter-guaranteed by such supplier in whole
or in part.
                            SCHEDULE 4
Page  10
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   Financial Institutions shall have reduced their distributions
of cash dividends to shareholders  to  such levels as shall enable
them  to  meet  all  legal   requirements  with  respect  to  loss
provisioning, bad loan write-offs and capitalization.
2.   The   Junta   Monetaria   shall   have   issued  regulations,
satisfactory to the Bank, with  respect to: (i) a required minimum
ratio  of  capital  to  risk   assets   to  be  met  by  Financial
Institutions; and (ii) a phase-in  period of three years beginning
on  January  1,  1988   for   purposes   of  applying  such  ratio
progressively.
3.   The Superintendencia  shall  have  issued regulations, satis-
factory to the Bank,  restricting Financial Institutions' loan and
credit transactions with groups,  or  any  member of any group, of
related persons, firms or  companies;  for  purposes of this para-
graph, the term "related" shall mean: (i) any more than 50% owner-
ship interest of one  party  in  another  party;  (ii) any form of
management control exercised by one party over another, including,
without limitation, holding officers' and directors' positions and
interlocking directorates;  (iii)  any  family  relationships; and
(iv) any  affiliation  between  two  parties  by  virtue  of being
related to a third party through any of the foregoing.
4.   The Superintendencia shall have commenced implementation of a
three-year  program,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to  reduce the
concentration of Financial Institutions' loans or credits extended
to groups, or members of  groups,  as described in the immediately
preceding paragraph 3.
5.   The Superintendencia  shall  have  issued  regulations and/or
taken other adequate measures, in  either case satisfactory to the
Bank, to require  Financial  Institutions  to: (i) engage external
and independent auditors to review  their loan portfolio and their
profitability, and  (ii)  submit  such  auditors'  reports  to the
Superintendencia.
6.   Banco Central and  the  Superintendencia shall have, jointly,
commenced  the  implementation   of  rehabilitation  programs  for
Financial Institutions which  fail  to  meet  the capital adequacy
tests and  liquidity  tests  established  by the Superintendencia,
but which, in  the  reasonable  opinion  of  Banco Central and the
Superintendencia, offer prospects of being recapitalized.
7.   The Superintendencia shall have engaged consultants to assist
it and train  its  staff  in:  (i)  loan  portfolio inspection and
classification, as well  as  evaluation  of  loss provisioning and
capital  adequacy;  (ii)  evaluation  of  Financial  Institutions'
credit risk policies,  as  well  as their organization, procedures
and methods for analyzing credit risk; (iii) utilizing information
obtained from the external  auditors  of Financial Institutions in
supervising  Financial   Institutions;   and   (iv)  auditing  and
supervising Financial  Institutions  that  utilize electronic data
and recordkeeping procedures.
8.   The Borrower shall have prepared  and furnished to the Bank a
study and draft legislation,  both  satisfactory  to the Bank, for
the creation of a mechanism or system to guarantee the deposits of
Financial Institutions and  recapitalize or otherwise rehabilitate
troubled Financial Institutions.
9.   Banco Central shall not  have  extended  any new credit under
the Redundant Credit Lines since the date of this Agreement.
10.  The total credit  outstanding  from  Banco  Central under all
credit lines  (other  than  credit  extended  to the non-financial
public  sector)  shall  have  declined,  after  taking  account of
inflation, by  25%  as  compared  to  such  credit  outstanding on
December 31, 1986.
Page  11
11.  The minimum interest rate  charged  to final beneficiaries on
all credit funded by Banco Central  shall be no more than (i) five
percentage points (5%) below  the  then applicable Polizas Rate or
(ii) if the Polizas  Rate  is  20%  or  less, equal to the Polizas
Rate.
12.  The Borrower shall  have  established  an  auction market for
Certificados de Tesoreria issued  by  the  Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit  and/or  Bonos  de  Estabilizacion  issued  by Banco
Central.
13.  The Junta Monetaria shall  have established and published the
terms of renewal for  Creditos de Estabilizacion, providing, inter
alia, that  not  more  than  one-half  (50%)  of  the total amount
outstanding  are  being  refinanced  and  that  the  interest rate
payable on such refinanced amounts  shall  be equal to the Polizas
Rate.
14.  Banco Central  shall  have  caused  Financial Institutions to
extend all credit financed  either  directly  or indirectly by any
international  financial  or  credit  institution  at  a  rate  of
interest equal to or greater than the Polizas Rate.
15.  The Borrower shall have  prepared  and  furnished to the Bank
draft legislation to exempt  all  adjustable-rate lending from any
otherwise applicable interest rate limit or restriction.
16.  The Borrower shall have  prepared  and furnished to the Bank:
(i)  an  action  plan,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  to implement
measures   designed   to    provide   incentives   and   eliminate
disincentives to the investment  of  capital as equity in business
enterprises; and (ii) draft legislation, satisfactory to the Bank,
to effect such action plan.
17.  The  macro-economic   policy   framework   of  the  Borrower,
including its external  borrowing  policy,  is consistent with the
Program.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  required  during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (b)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $20,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
Page  12
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  Each such
deposit shall be withdrawn by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account in
the respective equivalent amounts as  shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting  the  request  for  such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the  Bank  pursuant to Section 5.02
               of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
               Program, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  follow  such
procedures as the Bank  shall  specify  by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals  shall  be  made  only  after  and to the
extent that the  Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank,
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate
cancellation.
