Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4279-YEM 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Vocational Training Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  June 7, 2007 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER  4279-YEM 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated  June 7, 2007, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
YEMEN (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to ten 
million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR10,100,000) 
(“Credit”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”); 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  The Recipient’s Representative for 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this 
Section is the Minister of Planning and International Cooperation. 
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States dollars. 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out Parts I and II of the Project through the 
MTEVT and cause Part III of the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Project 
Implementing Entity or for the suspension of its operations. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60)
 
days after notice of the 
event has been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
occurs. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient has established the PMU referred to in Section I.A.3 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement with organization, staffing and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  5
-
3
-
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and International 
Cooperation. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
P.O. Box 175 
Sana’a 
Republic of Yemen 
 
Facsimile: 
 
967.1.250.665 or 976.1.250.605 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
 
By /s/ Abdulwahab Al-Hajjri 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Daniela Gressani  
 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to provide the public training system with 
improved mechanisms for responsiveness to employment needs, and to enhance the 
capacity and effectiveness of the Skills Development Fund in articulating and financing 
the training needs of enterprises. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part I
:
Monitoring and Evaluation, and Project Management
1.1. 
Provision of goods, technical services and training for: (i) the establishment and 
development of a planning, monitoring and evaluation system within MTEVT;  
(ii) capacity building on planning, monitoring and evaluation functions and processes at 
central, regional and institute levels; (iii) the development of indicators, and a monitoring 
and evaluation framework with systems and procedures for data collection and analysis; 
(iv) the development of a basic management information system; (v) undertaking of 
tracer studies, employer surveys, and incorporating data requirements to household 
budget surveys; and (vi) assisting in the development of a performance-based monitoring 
and budgeting system for public training institutions. 
 
1.2. 
Provision of goods, technical services and training for strengthening the 
institutional capacity of the PMU to ensure effective coordination and administration of 
the Project. 
 
Part II
:
Design and Delivery of Training Programs
Provision of goods, technical services and training, as well as carrying out small 
works for: 
 
2.1. 
The development and delivery of four new technician level programs of 
international standard to meet identified needs in the construction and food processing 
sectors. 
 
2.2. 
The establishment of skills and employment liaison units within public sector 
training providers to develop the capacity for responding to training needs in the 
construction, food processing, fisheries and seafood processing sectors. 
 
2.3. 
Strengthening the occupational skills and competencies of a cadre of about forty 
eight (48) master instructors. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
Part III
.
Reform of the Skills Development Fund
Provision of goods, technical services and training for supporting the Skills 
Development Fund in restructuring, developing its operating procedures and training its 
staff. 
Page  9
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall vest the overall responsibility for the implementation of  
Parts I and II of the Project in MTEVT and shall cause MTEVT to implement 
Parts I and II of the Project in accordance with the Operations Manual.  Except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient may not amend or waive any 
provision of the Operations Manual if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the 
Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
2. 
For the purpose of ensuring the proper coordination and execution of the Project, 
the Recipient shall maintain the Steering Committee with membership and terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association.  The functions of said Steering 
Committee shall include, inter alia: (i) overall guidance and oversight on the 
implementation of the Project; (ii) review and approval of the annual work 
programs, budgets and reports for the operation of the PMU; and (iii) review of 
auditors
’
reports. 
 
3. 
For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of the execution of Parts I and 
II of the Project, the Recipient shall maintain the PMU throughout the Project’s 
implementation with organization, staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association.  The PMU shall be responsible for supervising all procurement, 
financial management and monitoring and evaluation of Parts I and II of the 
Project. 
 
4. 
The Recipient shall procure, install and operationalize by no later than  
October 30, 2007, an accounting software capable of generating interim financial 
statements, with terms of reference acceptable to the Association to record, report 
and analyze Project related financial transactions. 
 
B. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project Implementing Entity’s Respective 
Part of the Project, the Recipient shall make part of the proceeds of the Financing 
available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement 
between the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, under terms and 
conditions approved by the Association (“Subsidiary Agreement”). 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any of its provisions
.
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than March 31, 2013. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than 
forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient (or 
other period agreed to by the Association).  The audited Financial Statements for 
each such period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) 
months after the end of such period.
 
Page  11
-
9
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All cons
ultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
Goods and works under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding shall be procured subject to the following additional procedures: 
 
(i) 
a Recipient -owned enterprise in the Republic of Yemen shall be eligible 
to bid only if it can establish that it is legally and financially autonomous, 
operates under commercial law, and is not a dependent agency of the 
Recipient; 
 
(ii) 
bidding (or pre-qualification, if required) shall not be restricted to any 
particular class of contractors or suppliers, and non-registered contractors 
and suppliers shall also be eligible to participate; 
Page  12
-
10 -
(iii) 
tenders shall be advertised for at least two (2) consecutive days in two 
(2) local newspapers of wide circulation; 
 
(iv) 
prospective bidders shall be allowed a minimum of thirty (30) days for 
the preparation and submission of bids, such thirty (30) days to begin 
with the availability of the bidding documents or the advertisement, 
whichever is later; 
 
(v) 
until national standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association 
are available, bidding documents approved by the Association shall be 
used, and may be prepared in Arabic; 
 
(vi) 
registration shall not be used to assess bidders’ qualifications; 
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualification was not carried out) and 
the method of evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be stated 
in the bidding documents, and before contract award the bidder having 
submitted the lowest evaluated responsive bid shall be subject to post-
qualification; 
 
(vii) 
a foreign bidder shall not be required to register or to appoint an agent as 
a
condition for submitting its bid and, if determined to be the lowest 
evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given reasonable opportunity to 
register, without let or hindrance; the registration process shall not be 
applicable to sub-contractors; 
 
(viii) 
all bids shall be submitted in sealed envelopes and may be submitted, at 
the bidder’s option, in person or by courier service; 
 
(ix) 
all bids shall be opened at the same time in a public bid opening which 
bidders shall be allowed to attend and which shall follow immediately 
after the deadline for submission of bids; 
 
(x) 
evaluation of bids shall be carried out in strict adherence to the criteria 
declared in the bidding documents and contracts shall be awarded to the 
lowest evaluated responsive bidder, without resorting to the rejection of 
bids above or below a certain percentage of the pre-bid estimate (bid 
price bracketing); 
 
(xi) 
no bidder shall be requested or permitted to modify its bid after the bid 
closing date shall have elapsed and bids submitted after the deadline for 
submission of bids shall be returned to the bidder unopened; 
 
(xii) 
post-bidding negotiations with the lowest or any other bidder shall not be 
permitted; 
Page  13
-
11 -
(xiii) 
under exceptional circumstances, the procuring entity may, before the 
expiration of bid validity, request all bidders in writing to extend the 
validity of their bids, in which case bidders shall not be requested nor 
permitted to amend the price or any other condition of their bids; a 
bidder shall have the right to refuse to grant such an extension without 
forfeiting its bid security, but any bidder granting such extension shall be 
required to provide a corresponding extension of its bid security; 
 
(xiv) 
price adjustment provisions may be included in contracts for works with 
a
duration of more than one year;  
 
(xv) 
rejection of all bids is justified when there is lack of effective 
competition, or bids are not substantially responsive, however, lack of 
competition shall not be determined solely on the basis of the number of 
bidders; and 
 
(xvi) 
each contract financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall provide that 
the contractor or supplier shall permit the Association, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the 
contract and to have such accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Association. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Consultants Qualifications 
(b)  Single Source 
(c)  Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association.
 
Page  14
-
12 -
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods under: 
(a) Parts I and II of the Project 
(b) Part III of the Project 
 
2,600,000 
 
90,000
100% 
(2) Small Works under Part II of the 
Project 
 
440,000 100% 
(3) Consultants’ services under: 
(a) Parts I and II of the Project 
(b) Part III of the Project 
 
3,900,000 
 
750,000 
100% 
(4) Training under: 
(a) Parts I and II of the Project 
(b) Part III of the Project 
 
760,000 
 
320,000 
100% 
Page  15
-
13 -
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(5) Incremental Operating Costs 
under Parts I and II of the 
Project 
 
540,000 100% 
(6) Unallocated 
    700,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
10,100,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (4)(b), unless and until 
the Recipient shall have submitted to the Association evidence, 
satisfactory to the Association, that the Project Implementing Entity
’s 
revised staffing structure acceptable to the Association has been carried 
out.
 
2. 
The Closing Date is May 31, 2013. 
Page  16
-
14 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
Repayable 
(Expressed as a percentage) 
On each June 1 and December 1: 
 
commencing June 1, 2017 to and including  
December 1, 2026 
1% 
commencing June 1, 2027 to and including 
December 1, 2046 
2% 
Page  17
-
15 -
APPENDIX 
 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
4. 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by the Recipient on 
account of Project activities, including utility charges, maintenance and insurance 
of vehicle, fuel, office supplies, banking charges, communication and translation 
services, advertising, mailing and shipping costs, local travel costs (including 
transport and per diem), and PMU driver and secretary salaries, but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Recipient. 
 
5. 
“MTVET” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Technical Education and 
Vocational Training, or any successor thereto. 
 
6. 
“Operations Manual” means the Recipient’s manual, dated February 19, 2007, 
setting forth the procedures, methodology, plans of implementation and required 
personnel acceptable to the Association required for carrying out the Project, as 
the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Association. 
 
7. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated February 14, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
9. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Skills Development Fund. 
 
10. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means Law No. 15 of 1995 as 
amended to the date of this Agreement. 
 
11. 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit to be established and maintained 
within MTVET in accordance with the provisions of paragraph I.A.3 of  
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  18
-
16 -
12.  
“Steering Committee” means the Committee referred to in paragraph I.A.2 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make part of 
the proceeds of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
Page  19
-
17 -
wb77754 
M:\legmn\YEMEN\SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING\FA2(conformed).doc 
06/19/2007 11:12:00 AM
 
