Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4279-YEM 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Second Vocational Training Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT FUND 
 
Dated  June 7, 2007 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4279-YEM 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated  June 7, 2007, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and the
 
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT 
FUND (“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) in connection with the 
Financing Agreement (“Financing Agreement”) of same date between the Republic of 
Yemen (“Recipient) and the Association.  The Association and the Project Implementing 
Entity hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or 
the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out Part III of 
the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for its Respective Part of the Project. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise 
agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out its Respective Part of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - TERMINATION 
 
3.01. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(c) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Representative is the Chairman of the Skills 
Development Fund. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
4.02. The 
Association
’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
 
4.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
Skills Development Fund 
 
P. O. Box 73 
 
Sanaa 
 
Republic of Yemen 
 
Facsimile: 
 
9671 215 886 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By / s/ Daniela Gressani 
 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
SKILLS DEVELOPMENT FUND 
 
By /s/ Abdulwahab Al-Hajjri 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  4
-
3
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project 
Implementing Entity’s Respective Part of the Project 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
The Project Implementing Entity shall carry out its Respective Part of the 
Project in accordance with the requirements and procedures set forth in the 
Operations Manual. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project and prepare Project Reports for its Respective Part 
of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
such Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Recipient not later two weeks after the end of the period covered 
by such report for incorporation and forwarding by the Recipient to the 
Association of the overall Project Report. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall provide to the Recipient not later than 
March 31, 2013, for incorporation in the report referred to in Section 4.08(c) of 
the General Conditions all such information as the Recipient or the Association 
shall reasonably request for the purposes of such Section. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to 
reflect the operations and financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, 
including the operations, resources and expenditures related to its Respective Part 
of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to 
above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association.  Each audit of these financial statements shall cover the period of 
one fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity (or other period agreed to by 
the Association).  The audited financial statements for each period shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the end of the 
period. 
Page  5
-
4
-
3. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A.2 of this Section, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall prepare and furnish to the Recipient and the 
Association as part of the Project Report not later than forty five (45) days after 
the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for its 
Respective Part of the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project Implementing 
Entity’s Respective Part of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III 
of Schedule 2 to the Financing Agreement. 
Page  6
-
5
-
wb77754
M:\legmn\YEMEN\SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING\PA2(conformed).doc
06/19/2007 11:11:00 AM
