                                       Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                            Report No: NCO2580



                     NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
                              (IDA-42790 TF-57637)



                                           ON A

                                      CREDIT
                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.1 MILLION
                            (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                                           FOR A

                     SECOND VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT



                                      February 28, 2013




Human Development Sector
Middle East And North Africa Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2012)

                  Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
                          1.00 = US$0.0047
                       US$1.00 = YR 214.825

                          FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 – December 31



                  Abbreviations and Acronyms

GOY     Government of Yemen
MOPIC   Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MTEVT   Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training
PMU     Project Management Unit
SDF     Skills Development Fund
SELU    Skills and Employment Liaison Units
TA      Technical Assistance
TEVT    Technical Education and Vocational Training




                  Vice President: Inger Andersen
                Country Director: Hartwig Schafer
         Sector Manager/Director: Mourad Ezzine/ Steen Lau Jorgensen
            Project Team Leader: Kamel Braham
              NCO Team Leader: Kamel Braham
                                            Republic of Yemen
                                     Second Vocational Training Project



                                                      CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iv
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. iv
C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... iv
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................... iv
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... v
F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ..................................................................... v

1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design ........................................... 6
2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation ........................................ 11
3. Assessment of Bank Performance ............................................................................ 15
4. Assessment of Borrower Performance...................................................................... 16
5. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 17
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 23
Map 33513 .................................................................................................................... 25
A. Basic Information
                                                                             RY-Second Vocational
Country:                Yemen, Republic of       Project Name:
                                                                             Training Project
Project ID:             P086308                  L/C/TF Number(s):           IDA-42790,TF-57637
NCO Date:               02/28/2013
                                                                             REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                             YEMEN
Original Total
                        USD 15.00M               Disbursed Amount:           USD 0.37M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 0.03-M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process         Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/13/2004      Effectiveness:          10/05/2007            10/05/2009
Appraisal:            11/17/2006      Closing:                05/31/2013            09/03/2012
Approval:             03/27/2007

C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                        Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                   32
Vocational training                                                 68


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for the knowledge economy                                 50
Improving labor markets                                             25
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                      25

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                      At NCO                         At Approval
Vice President:          Inger Andersen                    Daniela Gressani
Country Director:        Hartwig Schafer                   Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:          Mourad Ezzine                     Mourad Ezzine
Project Team Leader:     Kamel Braham                      Gillian M. Perkins
NCO Team Leader:         Kamel Braham


F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                       IP                Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1    09/09/2007          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.00
  2    03/23/2008          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.00
  3    11/09/2008      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                0.00
  4    06/30/2009         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                      0.00
  5    12/14/2009         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                      0.40
                            Moderately              Moderately
  6    05/26/2010                                                                    0.49
                          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately              Moderately
  7    01/12/2011                                                                    0.54
                          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
  8    08/26/2011         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                     0.58
  9    10/26/2011         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                     0.58
 10    05/21/2012         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                     0.58
1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design

1.      As the only low-income country in a resource rich region, the Republic of Yemen
faces major development challenges. With a GNI per capita of US$2,180 in 2011, Yemen ranks
amongst the poorest countries in the world with a majority of the poor concentrated in rural areas.
A country of deep rooted tradition, it has limited natural resources, notably scarce water, limited
arable land and declining oil reserves. Aridity is increasing due to the effects of climate change
on rainfall. Limited water supplies face pressure from increased and more intensive agriculture
and the rapid growth of urban areas.

2.      Despite recent achievements, Yemen is unlikely to reach key MDG’s. In 2011 Yemen
ranked 133 out of 177 countries on the Human Development Index. At 32 percent, the number of
undernourished in the country was one of the highest in the region. Yemen has very high rates of
mortality for children under five years old among comparable countries, largely attributable to 20
percent of girls having their firstborn before the age of 18. Women in Yemen have limited rights
and few opportunities, leading to their social and economic disadvantage. Malnutrition and lack
of proper immunization are major problems for Yemeni children which also affect their
enrolment in education. Yemen has the lowest pre-primary gross enrolment ratio (GER) of less
than one percent among all low income countries in the MENA region. Enrolment also drops
sharply after primary education is completed.

3.       The population of Yemen is growing rapidly. Yemen’s population has more than
doubled since 1975 and has grown approximately 35 percent since the 1994 census, making
Yemen the second most populous country on the Arabian Peninsula. In 2010 the total population
was estimated to be 24,050,000. According to United Nations estimates, in 2007 about 46 percent
of the population was under age 15 and slightly more than half the population was between the
ages of 15 and64. The population is almost equally divided between males and females. While
population growth rates have declined from 4.8 percent per annum in the early 1990s to 3.0
percent in the early 2000s, Yemen still has one of the highest fertility rates in the world. Should
this rate of growth continue, the population is expected to almost double again, reaching 47
million by 2040. United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has identified that population
growth is the most critical problem facing Yemen and is the root cause of many other problems.
Youth unemployment, exacerbated by the entry of several hundred thousand people in to the
labor market every year, is widely believed to be an underlying cause of civil unrest in both the
north and south of Yemen.

4.       The labor market in Yemen is largely informal. The majority of workers are found
either in subsistence agriculture or in small informal enterprises located in urban centers and
employing fewer than five workers. This situation, coupled with population growth, results in
Yemen being characterized as a labor surplus economy with no ready solution in sight. The
annual growth rate in the establishment of new enterprises is estimated to be 4 percent, while
growth of jobs in the public sector has been severely constrained as a result of economic
conditions in the country. Youth unemployment is currently estimated to be in excess of 30
percent, thereby exacerbating the potential for further civil unrest in the country.

5.       A decade of social and political unrest has challenged the development agenda on all
fronts. Social, political, and armed conflict has prevailed in different parts of the country during
the past decade. This has included: (i) the Houthi rebellion which began in Sa’dah and
subsequently expanded to conflicts in Hajjah, Amran and Al-jowf; (ii) increased activity by Al
Quaeda on the Arab Peninsula which culminated in an attempt to blow up a Detroit-bound
airliner; (iii) a series of events in the south of the country associated with perceived political and


                                                  6
economic inequity; and (iv) regular political demonstrations in the capital, Sana’a. These conflicts
have impacted communications, transportation, access to power, water, and food supplies, the
delivery of public services and all normal operations of both the public and private sector,
including the operations of all development partners.

6.      In terms of the Second VTP project, the foregoing unrest resulted in a suspension of
disbursement in July 2011 with consequent delays in procurement and project implementation at
large.

TEVT Sector Issues

7.       In 1998, a national Technical Education and Vocational Training (TEVT) policy
framework was developed by the Government of Yemen (GoY) within the context of: (i)
the Yemen Strategic Vision 2025; (ii) the second five-year development plan 2001-2005; and
(iii) the National Poverty Reduction Strategy. The foregoing policy framework was used to
guide the deliberations of a national conference on TEVT which took place in 1999 and identified
the following concerns regarding performance of the system: (i) the low capacity of the TEVT
system and the need to increase the number of training institutions; (ii) a low relevance of the
system to labor market needs; (iii) a need to enhance program effectiveness and quality through
the adoption of quality standards; (iv) a need to improve staffing and associated professional
development; (v) a need to upgrade physical facilities and equipment; and (vi) the development of
a vocational guidance and counseling system in order to enhance enrolment, retention and
graduate employment.

8.       The foregoing TEVT policy framework was developed concurrently with
implementation of the first Bank-financed Vocational Training Project (Cr. 2793, which
closed in June 2003) which was designed to address both TEVT system management and
finance and quality improvement. The objectives of the management and finance component of
this project were: (i) to increase employer community participation in training design and
delivery; (ii) to increase the level of autonomy at the training institute level; and (iii) to establish a
Skills Development Fund which would diversify sources of finance for the sector. Objectives of
the quality improvement component included a focus on curriculum development, training of
trainers, continuing education, and the upgrading of a limited number of training centers. During
the course of the project, key achievements were made in terms of the initial establishment of the
Skills Development Fund, improving institutional capacity and the quality of curriculum
development together with the upgrading of physical facilities. While the Skills Development
Fund component was rated as “marginally satisfactory,? a number of related governance,
regulatory and monitoring issues were identified as requiring urgent attention.

9.      Following completion of the foregoing project, GoY requested Bank support for a
second investment in the TEVT sector. While the Bank was responsive to this request, the
absence of a detailed sector development strategy created a gap in the ability to identify a series
of achievable development objectives for the sector, or to formulate a series of project
components that would enable achievement of these objectives. As a result, agreement was
reached between Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training (MTEVT), the World
Bank and the European Training Foundation (ETF) to collaborate on the preparation of a
Situational Analysis and a TEVT Strategy for the country.

10.    Building on the Situational Analysis, and through the adoption of a broad based
stakeholder consultation process, MTEVT published a “Technical Education and
Vocational Training Strategic Development Plan.? This plan identified the following core


                                                    7
strategic issues in the sector: (i) a need to diversify programming in order to respond to the needs
of a wider range of social and sectoral partners; (ii) a need to develop linkages with the labor
market at a number of levels in order to ensure that all activities of the system were driven by
employer and employment demand; (iii) a need to review the governance, management and
organizational structure of MTEVT to better reflect the requirements of an employment driven
marketplace; (iv) a need to reorient and re-equip the network of TEVT institutions to meet a
wider range of employer and community skill development needs; and (v) a need to diversify the
financing of TEVT in order to share costs more equitably amongst beneficiaries. Building on the
foregoing issues, a Strategic Development Plan for the TEVT Sector was developed in a results-
based format, together with a series of goals, enabling objectives and action plans. Costing of the
strategy was prepared and the plan forwarded to the Council of Ministers with subsequent
approval being provided by the cabinet on July 7, 2004. This strategy provided the foundation
upon which the Second Vocational Training Project was built.

Rationale for Bank Involvement

11.     Prior to embarking on the development of a second vocational training project in
Yemen, the Bank had gained substantial experience with the design and implementation of
other education sector programs in the country. This had included analytical work, strategic
planning and lending for basic, secondary, and higher education. In the TEVT sector work had
been completed and valuable lessons learned from the first vocational training project. The
nationally endorsed strategy for further development of the TEVT sector clearly identified a need
to focus on further development of the institutional capacity of the TEVT Ministry. Based on its
previous experience in the sector, together with its regional and international experience, the
Bank was seen to be the logical institution to support the required capacity development while
also addressing an identified national priority which was fully aligned with the prevailing CAS.

Project Preparation

12.     Project preparation was undertaken with support from a PHRD grant which
enabled further analysis of institutional capacity and the engagement of a wide range of
stakeholders in the sector.          This included: (i) dialogue with employer community
representatives in the nationally-identified target economic sectors of fisheries, construction and
food processing; (ii) workshops with Chambers of Industry and Commerce; (iii) in depth analysis
of the management and operations of the Skills Development Fund; (iv) the convening of a Policy
Forum with the Skills Development Fund with international representation; and (v) the drafting of
a revised Skills Development Fund (SDF) Law. All elements of the project design which emerged
had direct linkages to the TEVT Sector Strategy and were fully endorsed by the government prior
to project appraisal and loan negotiations.

Project Development Objective

13.     The objectives of the Second Vocational Training Project were “to provide the public
training system with improved mechanisms for responsiveness to employment needs, and to
enhance the capacity and effectiveness of the Skills Development Fund in articulating and
financing the training needs of enterprises.? This was to be achieved by: (i) developing a planning
and monitoring capacity in MTEVT oriented to employment demand; (ii) piloting mechanisms
for employer participation in the design and delivery of new pre-service and in-service training
models in target sectors of the economy; and (iii) supporting reform of the Skills Development




                                                 8
Fund. The project had two sets of beneficiaries: the public training system and the Skills
Development Fund.

Project Components

The project included the following components:

14.     Component 1: Monitoring and Evaluation and Project Management (US$3.01
million). This component included the following two sub-components.

    Sub-Component 1.1 Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.44 million). The objective of this sub-
    component was to support the development of a planning monitoring and evaluation system
    designed to improve decision making and the deployment of resources. This was to be
    achieved through the provision of technical assistance and training at the central and institute
    levels, the establishment of a basic Management Information System, the conduct of tracer
    studies and employer satisfaction surveys, and the introduction of performance-based
    monitoring and budgeting procedures for MTEVT training institutions.

    Sub-Component 1.2 Project Management (USD1.57million). The objective of this sub-
    component was to ensure efficient administration and coordination of components 1 and 2
    through the establishment of a Project Management Unit (PMU) staffed by local consultants.
    The project was to finance goods, technical services, and training for the institutional
    strengthening of the PMU.

15.     Component 2: Design and Delivery of Training Programs (US$10.14 million). The
central purpose of this component was to pilot a series of initiatives at the pre-service, in-service
and instructor training levels, all designed to demonstrate the benefits to be gained from
collaboration with employers. The component comprised the following three sub-components

    Sub-Component 2.1Technician Level Programs (US$6.13 million) This sub-component
    would pilot the development and delivery of new technician level programs of international
    standard in four existing training institutes to meet employer identified needs in the target
    sectors of fisheries, food processing and construction. The project was to finance a twinning
    program that would provide: (i) services for program development, training, and fellowships
    for staff; and (ii) small civil works; and, instructional equipment.

    Sub-Component 2.2 In-Service Training (US$2.23 million). This sub-component would pilot
    approaches for improving public sector training providers to respond more effectively to
    respond more effectively to employer defined skill development needs in the three target
    sectors. This would be achieved through the establishment of Skills and Employment Liaison
    Units (SELU) in each of the pilot institutes with a mandate to undertake outreach activities
    with employers leading to workforce skill upgrading. The project was to finance technical
    services through the twinning program; staff training; equipment; materials; and local
    transportation costs.

    Sub-Component 2.3Instructor Development (US$1.78 million) this sub-component would
    pilot approaches in four existing institutes to strengthen the occupational skills and
    competencies of a cadre of 48 Master Instructors. The project was to finance technical
    services from international subject specialists, training costs for work placements, fellowships,
    seminars, workshops and equipment.


                                                 9
16.      Component 3. Reform of the Skills Development Fund (US$1.85 million). The
objective of this component was to support the reform and restructuring of the SDF under revised
legislation. The project was to finance a long-term advisor who would assume the role of
managing director of the organization, as well as technical assistance, short term training,
workshops and equipment.

Implementation Arrangements

17.     The project design was based on two parallel implementation arrangements with
oversight by a national Steering Committee Chaired by the Minister of MTEVT. Committee
members were to include: (i) the Chairman of the SDF Board of Directors; (ii) the Vice Minister
of MTEVT; (iii) four MTEVT Deputy Ministers; (iv) a representative from the Ministry of
Planning; and (v) a representative from the ministry of Finance.

18.     Components 1 and 2 were to be implemented by the MTEVT with the support of the
PMU under the leadership of the Minister through the existing ministry operational structure. In
the case of Component 2, which comprised the main focus of the project, implementation support
was to be provided by the twinning partner in terms of implementation planning, employer
community relationships, performance monitoring and reporting.

19.     Component 3 was to be implemented by the SDF under the supervision of its Board of
Directors. The long-term advisor who was to be recruited under the project and assigned the
responsibilities of Managing Director would also assume overall responsibility for
implementation of the Component. The SDF would not have a project unit as such. Procurement,
financial, and reporting functions under the credit were to be assigned to competent members of
the SDF staff.

Risk Analysis

20.     The overall risk rating at the time of appraisal was deemed to be Substantial. The
following table summarizes the risks, risk ratings and risk mitigation measures.

                     Risk                      Rating                Risk Mitigation
Employers show continuing reluctance to          S       Project design allows for compensation
collaborate actively with training providers             for the time and costs of employer
in the analysis of training needs and design             participation through both the Skills
and delivery of training programs.                       and Employment Liaison Units and the
                                                         Skills Development Fund
Training center directors are not provided       H       MTEVT has expressed commitment to
with the skills and incentives necessary to              changing and strengthening leadership
adopt a strong leadership and development                where necessary
approach to their institution and employer
communities.
The teaching staff profile cannot be             S       New regulations for Training Institutes
progressively upgraded due to                            will allow the possibility of contract
public/private wage differentials                        hiring of trainers from the private
                                                         sector
Institutional capacity at the MTEVT is           S       Substantial technical services and
insufficient to manage change and                        training is incorporated in the project
implement policy reforms


                                               10
Institutional capacity in the MTEVT and its        S       Coordination of technical services,
PMU is insufficient to manage and                          training and twinning activities for
coordinate project implementation                          Component 2 will be handled by a
                                                           consortium or joint venture partnership
                                                           with a manager in the field
Restructuring of SDF is not fulfilled              S       Substantial technical services and
                                                           training is to be provided both pre- and
                                                           post- project effectiveness
Failure to procure sufficiently high quality      M        An experienced short term consultant
technical services                                         will be recruited to assist
                                                           MTEVT/PMU in the preparation of
                                                           Terms of Reference, bidding
                                                           documents, advertising, and bid
                                                           evaluation procedures. For some long-
                                                           term technical services roles, options
                                                           will be considered of basing in home
                                                           country with regular field visits
Capacity is insufficient to manage a large        M        Technical services provided for PMU
technical services contract effectively.

21.      Financing Plan The project was to be 100% financed by IDA for a total cost of US$15
million equivalent, with an estimated US$9 million in foreign expenditures and US$6 million in
local costs.

22.      Quality at Entry. The project design underwent a Quality Enhancement Review process
prior to project appraisal. Issues raised by the review panel included: (i) the relevance of the
proposed project to skill development needs in Yemen; (ii) the current and projected labor market
demand for TEVT graduates; (iii) provision of incentives to ensure employer community
collaboration; (iv) the capacity of the SDF to undertake a reorientation of its service delivery
model; and (v) a need to improve the project outcome indicators. In response, the project team
concurred that the existing TEVT model was strongly supply driven with both quantitative and
qualitative misalignments with employment demand. The project team noted, however, that the
project was designed to address these misalignments and to demonstrate the procedures
associated with demand driven programming through the adoption of a partnership-based
approach with the employer community. With respect to the issue of incentives, the project team
indicated that MTEVT was currently formulating procedures that would incentivize both ministry
staff and participating employers. In terms of the SDF, the valuable contribution from the QER
panel resulted in the provision of technical assistance from a DFID trust fund to assist the
organization to develop operational procedures that were felt to be relevant to the Yemen
situation. The resultant Operations Manual was subsequently discussed at length by the SDF
Board of Directors with some adjustments being made to the eligibility criteria.


2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation

23.       The Yemen Second Vocational Training Project transitioned through five distinct
phases during the period from project appraisal to cancellation. These phases included: (i)
project appraisal and effectiveness; (ii) political constraints on meeting effectiveness conditions;
(iii) activities undertaken while awaiting effectiveness; (iv) slow implementation progress leading
to a request to restructure the project; and (v) cancellation of the project. Key events associated
with each phase are provided in the following paragraphs.


                                                11
Phase 1: Project Appraisal and Effectiveness

24.      The project was appraised on February 28, 2007 based on a six-year
implementation period with an expected effectiveness date of June 1, 2007 and a closing
date of May 31, 2013. The credit was approved on March 27, 2007 with the legal documents
signed on June 7, 2007. Effectiveness conditions included: (i) the Subsidiary Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity; and (ii) the Recipient
has established the PMU referred to in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement with
organization, staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association? which in turn was
subject to the passing of the SDF law.

25.     The revised SDF Law was endorsed by the Cabinet in February 2007 and, as agreed
during negotiations, the credit agreement and revised SDF Law were submitted to parliament as a
package. Other effectiveness conditions included procurement of financial management software
and submission of a legal opinion.

26.      While not a specific condition of effectiveness, agreement had been reached with
MTEVT to have a fully staffed PMU in place by the expected date for project appraisal.
Recruitment of PMU staff however was seriously delayed. Initial advertisements for staff did not
yield relevant candidates. A second advertisement was issued in March 2007. By September 2007
only the Financial Officer and Technical Coordinator had been appointed. This deficiency
constrained the ability of the ministry to ensure timely meeting of the effectiveness conditions.

Phase 2: Political Constraints on Meeting Effectiveness Conditions

27.   Following approval of the credit, a series of unfortunate political constraints
impeded the ability to meet conditions of effectiveness as summarized below.

    o   Following initial submission of the credit agreement and new SDF Law to the
        Parliamentary Committee in April 2007, a number of perceived outstanding issues
        disallowed the call for a vote of approval prior to the summer recess. This delayed further
        consideration until after Ramadan which in 2007 occurred in mid-October. Consequently
        the initial effectiveness date of October 5, 2007 could not be met and was therefore
        extended to December 5, 2007.
    o   No further action was taken until the next sitting of parliament in February 2008 which
        approved the credit agreement but did not bring closure to the outstanding issue of
        ratifying the revised SDF Law. This resulted in an extension of the credit effectiveness
        deadline to July 5, 2008.
    o   Following a Ministerial change in MTEVT, renewed efforts were made to resolve
        outstanding issues. While again resulting in some progress, revisions to the SDF Law
        were not approved and the deadline for effectiveness was once again extended to
        October 6, 2009.
    o   Based on an intervention by the Bank management in a high-level meeting convened on
        October 4, 2009, the Parliamentary Committee indicated a readiness to approve the
        revised SDF Law.
    o   Parliament ultimately approved the revised SDF Law on October 5, 2009, which enabled
        the signing of a subsidiary agreement between the Government of Yemen and the Skills
        Development Fund, thus enabling the revised effectiveness date of October 6, 2009 to be
        met. The Project was declared effective on October 5, 2009.




                                               12
28.     The foregoing delay in excess of two years seriously impacted the potential for
achieving the intended development objective as the project design was based on development
and delivery of the new three-year technician level programs which would require two years for
TA selection, contracting, mobilization, program development, equipment procurement, and staff
training before students could be enrolled in the first year of each new program of three years.
The government, however, confirmed its strong commitment to the project objectives and
demonstrated a high degree of cooperation for a quick launch of the project. This resulted in an
agreement to proceed with project implementation.

Phase 3: Activities Completed While Awaiting Effectiveness

29.     While project implementation activities and associated disbursements could not
take place during the June 2007 to October 2009 period, MTEVT, the SDF, and the Bank
team maintained close contact and undertook a series of activities designed to enhance
implementation readiness as soon as the effectiveness conditions were met. These activities
included:

   o    Staffing the PMU with a Project Director, Technical Advisor, Procurement Officer and
        Financial Officer;
    o   Design and delivery of professional development workshops relating to instructional
        program design and curriculum development;
    o   Review of readiness of physical facilities in the pilot institutes;
    o   Preparation of Terms of Reference for Component 1 and 2 Technical Assistance
        activities;
    o   Development of an Operation and Procedures Manual for the SDF reflecting the new
        operational modality;
    o   Conduct of a survey of Pilot Institutes together with the delivery of workshops designed
        to enhance readiness to establish SELUs who would deliver in-service training activities;
        and
    o   Further dialogue with employers in the target sectors regarding employee competency
        expectations.

Phase 4: Slow Implementation Progress Leads to Agreement to Restructure the Project

30.     During the period October 2009 to December 2010 some progress was made on the
following fronts.

    o   The implementation approach to Component 1 was adjusted with the ultimate recruitment
        of a short term policy and planning advisor who drafted a comprehensive set of
        organizational recommendations and operating procedures in close collaboration with
        MTEVT. While MTEVT indicated a readiness to proceed with the proposed
        recommendations, the Bank team indicated reservations in a number of areas. These
        reservations were discussed and documented with the ministry.
    o   The RFP for Component 2, the largest component of the project was cleared by the High
        Tender Board and forwarded to the short listed firms on August 25, 2010 with a deadline
        of October 25, 2010 for the submission of proposals. This RFP resulted in no proposals
        being received, with all firms citing “factors external to the project? as the reason for non
        submission. A second request for expressions of interest was issued after receiving a
        commitment from four short listed firms that they would in fact submit proposals. Once
        again due to the declining security conditions in the country no proposals were received.


                                                13
   o   With respect to Component 3 the SDF established a new Executive Board, drafted by-
       laws, and drafted a transition plan. Terms of reference were prepared for the recruitment
       of a short-term advisor as opposed to a long-term advisor as proposed in the original
       project design. These TORs were developed to assist the SDF with initial implementation
       of the new business model

31.     In spite of the progress noted above, in July 2010, consensus was reached between
MTEVT, SDF, and the Bank that while supporting the skills development sector in Yemen
continued to be a national priority, the slow rate of implementation and associated disbursement
was such that the project should be restructured by reducing the scale and simplifying the
elements. The essence of the proposed restructuring was as follows:

   o   Component 1 would be reduced in scope and implemented through the creation of an
       inter-Directorate technical committee with the long term advisor being replaced with
       three short-term consultants focused on developing a basic M&E system together with a
       basic data gathering and analysis capability. Performance studies would focus on 10
       institutes as opposed to 25 in the original design;
   o   Component 2 would retain the firm/consortium implementation modality but the overall
       scope of the component would be reduced through reducing the number of institutes from
       four to two, in-service training would be delivered by existing staff and instructor training
       would focus solely on new program areas;
   o   For Component 3, the long-term managing director position would be replaced by
       short/medium term international advisors and the scope of training and workshops would
       be reduced;
   o   A fourth component would be introduced through a reduction in the size of the PMU and
       the appointment of a new Project Manager.

32.     The impact of the foregoing changes was to reduce the Credit from the original
value of US$15 million equivalent to US$9 million equivalent.

   o   On May 11, 2011, GoY forwarded a request to the Bank to restructure the project in
       accordance with the agreements reached in December 2010. The foregoing
       communication was accompanied by a request from the SDF to withdraw from the
       project and to use its own internal resources.

33.     A Restructuring Package was prepared by the project team but was not processed
for approval within the Bank. In parallel, the terms of reference for the second and largest
component were revised. This coincided with deteriorating security conditions that led to an
agreement to postpone issuing the “Request for Expression of Interest? in anticipation of low to
no-response from potential bidders. This was immediately followed by slowing down of
operations prior to the formal announcement of suspension of disbursement and consequently
consideration of project cancellation rather than project restructuring. As a result of ongoing
discussions between Bank management and the newly appointed TEVT Minister, GoY was
advised that while the Bank recognized the importance of skills development in the country, a
regional policy study of the TEVT sector was currently under implementation and that the
findings of this study would be used to guide future investments in the sector.




                                               14
Phase 5: Cancellation of the Project

34.     In March 2011, due to the escalation of social and political unrest in the country, the
Bank’s local staff was relocated to Amman, thereby resulting in an inability to fulfill the
Bank’s fiduciary and supervision responsibilities. Consequently, suspension of disbursements for
the project was declared on July 28, 2011.

35.       With continuing unrest in the country, it was agreed in May 2012 to fully cancel the
project for the following reasons: (i) most project activities could not be completed before the
closing date of May 31, 2013, and, subsequently, the project would not be able to achieve the
intended development objectives; (ii) the difficulties faced by the project were seen to continue
even when the suspension was lifted due to the weak capacity of both the Ministry of TEVT, the
PMU and the SDF; (iii) a lack of local expertise to undertake some project consultancies; and (iv)
the difficulty in hiring qualified firms or international consultants willing to travel to Yemen to
work on the project. It should be noted that the lengthy request for restructuring process, the
suspension of disbursement, the Bank’s orientation towards focusing its intervention, and lengthy
request for credit cancellation should be factored in when assessing the extent to which the Bank
Team took proactive measures towards a timely cancellation. In a critical sector such as TEVT,
this is a key priority for both the Government and the Bank; and thus decisions were made in such
a pace that allows for the dialogue to be pursued through the on-going technical assistance to
establish a sector diagnosis through a rigorous data collection instrument (Yemen SABER –
Work Force Development).


3. Assessment of Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

36.     The World Bank Performance is rated as: Moderately Unsatisfactory. While the Bank
team provided extensive support to the MTVET and PMU during project preparation and
supervision, project design was too complex given the low capacity of the implementing entities,
project readiness for implementation- particularly of Component 3 (SFD) has been over-
estimated and high turn-over of Bank Team Leaders has had a negative impact on project
supervision.

37.      Prior to the preparation of the project, the World Bank team worked closely with
the MTEVT to formulate a series of policy objectives that would guide the project design.
These objectives focused on the need to: (i) adopt an employment demand driven approach to
program development; (ii) adopt a measure of decentralization and institutional autonomy at the
Institute level in order to enable an increased measure of responsiveness; (iii) adopt a close
working partnership approach with employers; and (iv) implement a rigorous program of process
and output monitoring. During this period, the Bank team was also instrumental in facilitating a
comprehensive analysis of the history and operation of the SDF and bringing international
experience in the formulation of recommendations for change. The resultant dialogue which took
place at an inter-agency policy forum was instrumental in generating understanding, cooperation
and respect between the ministry and the SDF, where a climate of antagonism and mistrust had
previously prevailed, while also formulating a new SDF Law that would enable the adoption of a
new business model.




                                                15
38.     During the course of project preparation, the World Bank team provided extensive
support to the ministry and the PMU in the identification of potential consultants and providing
guidance on procurement procedures together with feedback on the quality of consultant
deliverables. During the course of implementation it became apparent that the overall project
design which emerged was overly complex. (See Section 5: Lessons Learned.) In addition, the
unexpected very low capacity of the Ministry and the SDF contributed significantly to the delay
in implementation.

39.     During project implementation, the World Bank undertook regular supervision
missions which included the provision of technical and administrative support to the PMU and
the ministry. During a critical supervision mission in October 2009, Bank management, together
with support from local Bank staff, was instrumental in facilitating resolution of outstanding
issues with the Parliamentary Committee and the subsequent promulgation of the new SDF Law.
This resolved the final outstanding condition of effectiveness and enabled implementation of
project activities to begin. The Bank team subsequently provided continuous guidance on the
preparation of terms of reference, contracting procedures, and TA outputs.

40.     The project would nevertheless have benefited from a more consistent approach to
task team leadership. During project preparation, appraisal and the initial phases of
implementation, the leadership style was collaborative and facilitative with a strong focus on
capacity building and deepening understanding among the respective directorates of MTEVT
regarding the project objectives and implementation arrangements. At a later stage, despite the
Bank’s support, it was less than what was needed to get the project off the ground. A
number of factors of shared responsibility between the Bank and the ministry resulted in
the dismissal of the PMU Director, the loss of the project history, which was not regained
through the temporary Acting Director arrangement. These conditions have not allowed
for a successful project restructuring. This is despite the Bank’s efforts to effectively
collaborate through constructive continuing dialogue between the Bank and the ministry. Still,
the project’s complex design and delayed start of implementation due to effectiveness conditions
as well as non-response of service bidders should be perceived as a shared responsibility of both
the Borrower and the Bank, and thus triggering the moderately unsatisfactory rating.

41.     Following the evacuation of Bank staff to Amman, the Bank team continued to provide
support to the ministry and the PMU through regular audio conferences and email. This continued
until agreement was reached to close the project due to continuing unrest in the country and
recognition that the development objectives could not be achieved within the context of the
prevailing conditions. In collective terms, a mix of internal and external factors influenced both
the Bank and the Borrower’s performance, including the change of management, changing
country context and subsequent increase of social and political unrest. These factors, together
with a less than adequate PMU capacity, complexity of project design, and slow-down of Bank’s
support that preceded suspension of disbursement created conditions that did not allow for
adequate supervision support.


4. Assessment of Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

42.     The Borrower Performance is assessed as Moderately Unsatisfactory. During the
preparation stage, constructive dialogue with the Bank took place at the vice ministerial level who


                                                16
demonstrated clarity of understanding of the sector, combined with strong leadership and
decision-making skills. A counterpart team was established; institutional change was initiated,
including staff changes at the institute director level; and the elements of a performance-based
incentive scheme were developed for the project. Subsequent changes at MTEVT resulted in a
loss of momentum as the incoming team progressed through the inevitable learning curve. This
fact, coupled with significant weakness in the PMU, seriously inhibited effective decision-making
and timely resolution of issues. In retrospect, the project/activities design proved overly ambitious
and complex considering the incoming implementation stage counterpart. This seemed to have
adversely affected project implementation more than readiness at the preparation stage; where the
TOR for the second and largest component was developed and the operational manual for the
Fund was drafted with close Bank Team’s support.

43.    At no point in the project history was the PMU fully staffed by individuals having
the requisite competence and experience. The initial appointment of a project director was
delayed for approximately one year. Delays took place in terms of purchasing a financial
management system satisfactory to the Bank. While there were appointees to the position of
procurement specialist in the PMU, the procurement support remained relatively poor.
Consequently, while action plans were drawn up at the end of each supervision mission,
implementation delays were consistently experienced.

44.      While the SDF represented an essential institutional partner in the project design,
this role was never internalized or acted upon by the SDF Board of Directors. Few Board
members from the employer community attended Board meetings. No new staff were appointed,
apart from a finance officer. The Operations Manual was not endorsed. No initiatives to promote
the new operational procedures were initiated.


5. Lessons Learned

45.      Policy coherence is a pre-requisite for effective project design and implementation.
Prior to preparation of the project, the World Bank team engaged in intensive policy dialogue at
the senior level of the MTEVT and with the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
(MOPIC). During these discussions, the contradictions arising from the adoption of the nationally
endorsed target to enroll 15 percent of secondary school leavers in TEVT programs and the
associated construction of 20 new institutes vs. the adoption of an employment demand-driven
approach as reflected in the national strategy remained essentially unresolved. While recognizing
the logic of the demand-driven approach, MTEVT chose to characterize the proposed project as a
pilot project and to incorporate lessons arising in future policy directions. This dichotomy was not
well understood at other levels of the ministry, which detracted from understanding and
committing to the development of an employer community partnership in all facets of the
program design and implementation.

46.     Project design built on sound policy should not be allowed to become hostage to
uninformed politics. As a precursor to project preparation, extensive analysis of the legal,
regulatory, institutional, management, administrative and operational aspects of the SDF were
completed. Building on this analysis, a policy framework that would guide reform of the SDF
was formulated and endorsed by MTEVT, SDF, and the Council of Ministers. Revisions to the
SDF Law that would enable the adoption of the policy framework were subsequently submitted to
a parliamentary committee for ratification. Anecdotal evidence indicates that at this point the
proposed revisions became the subject of either misinformation or disinformation which resulted
in a delay in excess of two years in meeting project effectiveness conditions. This placed the


                                                 17
whole project in jeopardy. More intensive intervention by the executive management level of the
SDF, MTEVT, and MoPIC was needed to bring the issue to an earlier resolution.

47.      The capacity of Yemen institutions to implement change is low. Project designs must
have modest objectives and be simple in construct. The project design process for Component
2 was founded on international TEVT best practice, including: (i) employer community
partnership at its core; (ii) the identification of occupational competencies; (iii) development of
standards; (iv) development of learning assessment tools; and (v) the provision of related learning
resources, tools and equipment. The delivery model was based on a twinning arrangement with an
international consortium that would support both program development, program implementation,
and provide management support while counterpart institutional capacity would be built through
working groups drawn from the respective directorates of the ministry, chaired by a deputy
minister. The partnership-based approach proved to be beyond the experience of MTEVT. Both
country and sector contexts should be factored in while developing project designs and
implementation arrangements. This would help mitigate country risks as well as likely political
instability.

48.      The SDF needed significantly more on-the-ground support for program
implementation. Following its revision, the SDF Law was deemed by the SDF, the TEVT
Ministry and the Bank to be one of the most progressive skills development fund laws in the
region. Promulgation of the Law was accompanied by the appointment of a new Board of
Directors. While the policy context and accompanying operation and procedures manual were
sound, the SDF essentially had only a single employee charged with program implementation.
This was contrary to the organizational model reflected in the operations manual which identified
the structure of the management team together with their operational responsibilities. The project
design was based on the identification of a long-term advisor who would also serve as managing
director of the fund in its early stages, while also supporting the development of the Yemen
management team. The intended pace of development was once again overestimated. The
achievable rate of change in all projects in Yemen needs realistic evaluation.

49.      Investment in leadership is a critical issue in Yemen. Bank-funded development
projects are inherently multi-dimensional in nature and call for mature leadership throughout their
implementation. The current pool of project management and leadership skills in Yemen as
reflected by advertisements for PMU staff, local TA providers or local consultants is neither deep
nor broad. This suggests that the capacity of all appointees needs to be carefully assessed and
supported by relevant professional development experiences that would serve as both an incentive
and a pathway to professional growth, thereby enhancing project performance.

50.      Arabic language skills are an essential requirement which underpins project
ownership and comprehension. Many of the policy issues, project design concepts,
implementation details, and operational modalities for the TEVT project were discussed with the
partners primarily in the English language. The majority of documents designed to capture these
discussions were similarly prepared in the English language. This being the case, it was
frequently evident that those responsible for implementing the project were neither fully aware or
informed of the purpose and expected outcomes from the responsibilities to which they were
assigned. This problem was compounded by an internal culture in both the Ministry and the SDF
which discouraged open discussion and information sharing. While this is a lesson which applies
to all languages and cultures, it is of particular importance in Yemen thus highlighting the
importance of the role played by local and regional Bank staff.




                                                18
51.     Although the basic education sector in Yemen is not confronted to the same issues as the
TEVT one and has a much stronger capacity, lessons learnt from the VTP II were useful in the
preparation of the Second Basic Education Development Project (BEDP II, P130853). The
preparation process for BEDP II ensured: (i) policy coherence through making sure that project
objectives and design are in line with the sector strategy which was updated during project
preparation; (ii) project focus on service delivery rather than policy reform; and (iii)
implementation arrangements have been kept the same as the previous project (Basic Education
Development Project, P076185).

OPPORTUNITIES AND CONSTRAINTS FOR TEVT IN YEMEN

52.     Yemen continues to experience population growth rates which exceed the growth
rates of both the economy and employment generation. These facts, coupled with the recent
social and political unrest, call upon all partners to refocus on lessons learned from previous
interventions while drawing on related international best practice in order to build more
productive and economically relevant human capital in the country.

53.       Based on the most recently available data, the Yemeni workforce exhibits certain
characteristics. In terms of sectors of employment, 76 percent of the Yemen workforce is
employed in the formal or informal sector, and 24 percent employed in the public sector. Fifty-
four percent of the workforce is classified as being herders or agricultural workers. In terms of
educational attainment of the employed workforce, 35.1 percent are classified as illiterate; 21.6
percent can read and write; 19 percent have completed basic education or held a pre-high school
diploma; 16.6 percent have completed high school; and 7.7 percent hold a university degree. The
level of educational attainment of the unemployed workers is 30.4 percent who are classified as
illiterate, 24.7 percent can read and write; 19.4 percent have completed either basic education or
hold a pre-high school diploma, and 4.7 percent have a university degree. These data comprise a
baseline from which any future investments in the development of human capital should build.

54.      Public investments in post-primary education, including those of development
partners, have to date been channelled either through MTEVT or MOHESR. Human capital
development outcomes arising from investments in both of these entities have been modest at best,
while also essentially targeting employment either in the public sector or the formal economy.
Few interventions have focussed on strengthening the informal sector. As noted above, the
informal sector is the largest employer in the country and as such plays a central role in poverty
alleviation. The informal sector is its own training provider through what is essentially a
traditional apprenticeship model, while also carrying all associated costs for skill development.
Outcomes from this approach are inevitably uneven as there are no standards or means of
recognition. Similarly, the informal sector does not have access to entrepreneurial training or
sound management practices thereby constraining the growth of individual enterprises.

55.      While international experience in providing training for the informal sector has also
shown modest results, a number of new approaches are emerging. Traditionally, training
support for the informal sector has been channelled through existing TEVT institutions which are
constrained by their internal institutional mechanisms and operational procedures, while also
employing instructional staff who do not have occupational skill levels relevant to the sector.
More recent experience has shown promise if the interventions are channelled through either
existing or newly formed trade associations who engage existing master craftsmen who have been
provided with a minimum amount of pedagogical training and exposure to current good practice
in their respective occupational fields. This leads to the adoption of a dual system model where
training takes place on the job with short term upgrading provided through a partnership with the


                                               19
local TEVT provider for the delivery of entrepreneurial training and the award of a certificate of
readiness for employment. Using this model, incentives need to be provided to the enterprises that
provide training as well as the master instructors who are the primary training service providers.
Voucher systems have also proven to be of value.

56.     In the context of Yemen, the question of which agency should be assigned a mandate
to lead training support to the informal sector needs to be resolved. The answer to this
question is outside the scope of this note but for discussion purposes, the Social Fund for
Development (SFD) has proven to be one of the more enterprising and connected agencies whose
past experience has provided wide coverage both geographically and sectorally. As a partner to
the SFD, the SDF could potentially provide financial resources, provided clear guidelines were in
place, while MTEVT could provide short-term pedagogical training for master craftsmen who
would be the training service providers and the certifying authority.

57.      A second initiative having employment potential is to access employment in the
wider Gulf region. The GoY continues to recognize the Gulf labor market as an important region
of opportunity to relieve the growing rate of unemployment associated with the issue of
population growth exceeding economic growth. An important analysis of this situation is
provided in a report prepared by MOPIC in May 2009. This report provides a clear assessment of
the educational characteristics of the labor force in Yemen, together with an assessment of the
regional labor market and associated expatriate workforce. The report also addresses the political
and regulatory dimensions of accessing the labor market and identifies steps that would need to
be taken to increase participation by Yemeni workers. Building on the foregoing analysis, the
issue of access to the Gulf labor market was adopted by GoY in 2010 as one of the 10 national
priorities for economic development.

58.      In spite of the global economic downturn, the Gulf region continues to experience
dynamic growth with numerous planned investments which will continue to demand large
numbers of expatriate workers. Expatriate workers are predominantly employed either in the
service sector or the construction sector, with a smaller but significant number being employed in
professional fields such as engineering, education, health care and financial services. In all the
foregoing sectors, the common language is increasingly becoming English, and basic competency
in the use of ICT is a requirement for a high percentage of positions. These factors underlie the
predominance of Asian expatriate workers, while also defining the nature of employment
opportunities that can realistically be accessed in the short term by Yemeni workers. These
opportunities for Yemeni workers would include janitorial services, drivers, security services,
retail and hospitality sector services where English is not a requirement, semi-skilled occupations
in the construction sector such as painting, warehousing, masonry, carpentry, etc. In order to
access higher level skilled worker positions, a longer term strategy would need to be put in place.

59.     The design of an approach to gaining access to employment opportunities in the
Gulf region begins with recognition of the need to adopt a business approach rather than an
administrative, institutional or bureaucratic approach. Adoption of this principle suggests that that
the management of the training and employment placement might be led by a private sector entity,
while management of the regulatory and work permit issues could be led by the relevant GoY
ministry. For discussion purposes the private sector entity would:

       Develop the network of relationships with recruiters in the Gulf region which are used by
        major companies and contractors to engage required staff;
       Identify target occupations and employment opportunities consistent with the
        characteristics of Yemeni workers;


                                                20
      Develop basic occupational competency profiles that would guide training program
       design;
      Identify, mobilize and coordinate private or public training providers, locally, regionally,
       or internationally;
      Establish procedures and mechanisms to identify trainee candidates; and
      Establish procedures for candidate placement in employment.

60.     The two approaches outlined in the foregoing paragraphs are considered to be
complementary rather than being mutually exclusive and are put forward to stimulate
discussion regarding potential approaches to an issue which is fundamental to social and
economic development in the Republic of Yemen. Table 1 provides a macro-level summary of
the opportunities and constraints associated with the foregoing options.




                                               21
  Assets and Constraints Surrounding Skill Development for Employment in the Formal
                  Sector, Informal Sector, and Regional Labor Market

                                         Formal Sector
                    Assets                                         Constraints
MTEVT is established as the national training   MTEVT does not exhibit the institutional
provider with a broad geographic distribution   flexibility and responsiveness to be an effective
of training centers                             partner with the employer community

MTEVT has a Program Framework offering            A high percentage of MTEVT instructional
courses targeted at formal sector employment      staff have very low levels of occupational
                                                  experience and competence
MTEVT has a cadre of trainers with assigned
teaching responsibilities in a wide range of      Many MTEVT training centers are not
occupational specializations                      equipped with instructional tools and
                                                  equipment required to build skills expected by
MTEVT is provided with an annual budget           employers
from the central government as well as having
potential access to the SDF                     Graduates from MTEVT programs are not
                                                equipped with skills required by employers
                                                consequently, employment outcomes are low
                                        Informal Sector
                    Assets                                        Constraints
The informal sector represents an estimated     No structure, time, or skill development
70% of all employment in the country            knowledge and tools

The informal sector provides independent skill    No supporting institutional arrangements for
development through traditional                   employee development or certification
apprenticeships
                                                  Lack of access to technology, capital, or
The informal sector has developed a flexible      management development tools
and responsive workforce through necessity
                                                SDFhas not developed suitable mechanisms to
The informal sector has potential access to     support skill development for the informal
training resources through the SDF              sector
                                    Regional Labor Market
                     Assets                                        Constraints
Yemeni workers have historically shown a        Yemeni workers do not have sufficiently high
readiness to undertake employment in the        skill levels to work in a more technologically
region                                          developed environment

Yemeni workers bring a common language to         Yemeni workers face political and bureaucratic
regional employment                               constraints to employment in the region

Yemeni workers bring a cost advantage to the
increasingly high cost of Asian workers




                                                 22
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members

                                                                      Responsibility/
          Names                         Title                 Unit
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Yasser El-Gammal                   Sector Manager            MNSHD
Mira Hong                         Operations Officer         MNSSP
Thao Le Nguyen                  Senior Finance Officer       CTRLN
Ghada Youness                      Senior Counsel            LEGLE

Supervision/NCO
                             Senior Human Development
Afrah Alawi Al-Ahmadi                                        SASSP
                                      Specialist
Asma Al-Hanshali                  Program Assistant          MNCYE
Saleh Qasem Al-Manary       Financial Management Analyst     MNAFM
Abdulrahman Al-Sharjabi           Operations Officer         MNSHE
Moad M. Alrubaidi          Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM
Brigitte S. Franklin              Program Assistant          MNSHD
Ahmedou Hamed                         Consultant             AFTPE
Mira Hong                         Operations Officer         MNSSP
Amira Kazem                       Operations Officer         MNSHE
Mikael Sehul Mengesha       Senior Procurement Specialist    MNAPC
Samih W. Mikhail                      Consultant             MNSHD
J. Roger Pearson                      Consultant             MNSHD
Kamel Braham                  Senior Education Specialist    MNSHE Task Team Leader
Moukim Temorov                 Resident Representative       MNCDZ Task Team Leader
Gillian Perkins                       Consultant              IEG  Task Team Leader
                                                                     Procurement
Shivendra Kumar                      Consultant              MNAPC
                                                                       Specialist




                                         23
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                          USD Thousands (including
                               No. of staff weeks
                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                3.23                        32.64
  FY05                               30.68                       149.73
  FY06                               39.76                       194.52
  FY07                               62.76                       292.79
  FY08                               16.78                        39.51
 FY09                                 0.51                        3,195
                                                                712,385
 TOTAL


Supervision/NCO
 FY08                                   19.35                     89.69
 FY09                                   18.95                    73,583
 FY10                                   15.73                   88,080.5
 FY11                                   27.01                   117,239
 FY12                                   13.49                    47,912
 TOTAL                                                          326,904




                                   24
                                                                                                           46ºE                                         48ºE                                               50ºE                                  52ºE                                         54ºE

                    REPUBLI C O F                                                                                                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information


                      Y EM E N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20ºN
                             SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                 20ºN

                             GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                   REP. OF                                                         SAUDI                          ARABIA
                             NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                      YEMEN
                             RIVERS

                             MAIN ROADS

                             GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES

                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OMAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18ºN
                  42ºE               To Abha                44ºE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sanaw                                                To Thamarit

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Habarut
                                                                                                                                                                                               Thamud
                                                    SAADAH                                                                                                                                                                                     Mah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rat                             To Mirbat
                                                          Saadah                                                                                                               n                                                                               Mt
                                                                                                                                                                          hu                                                      AL-                                  ns.




                                                                                                                                                                     ak
                                                                                                                                                                   di M
                                                                                        AL-JOWF                                                                 Wa                                                             M A H R AT
                                                                                                                                                      Zamakh
                                                                                                                                                                          HADRAMOUT                                                                                      Damqawt
                             Maydi                        ¸ -
                                                          Huth                                                                                                                                                                           adi Al Jiz
                                                                                                                                                            t                                                                           W
                                                                                 Al Hazm                                                              ser                                                                                                     Al Ghaydah
           16ºN                      HAJJAH AMRAN                        Wad                                                                 n   De                                                Wad
                                                                                                                                                                                                       i   Had
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mar’ayt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           16ºN
                                                                                                                                         tay
                                                                            i   Jaw                                                                                                                              ram
                                                                                                                                   b'a
                                                                                   f                                                                                                   Al Ghuraf                                                          Nishtun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ou
                    Al Luhayyah                Hajjah                                                                         Sa                                                                                       t
                                                               Amran                                                t   as                                           Hawra
                                                                                       MARIB                    mla
                             Salif      Al Mahwit                                               Marib      Ra              Shabwah
              AL-                                                    SANAA                                                                                                                                 t                                    Qishn

           MAHWIT                                           SANA'A                                                                                                                                     o u
                                                                                                                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                 S H A B WA                                                                m                                        Sayhut
                                                                                                                                                                                       r a
           Re




                     Al Hodeidah                Al Gabain
                                                           DHAMAR            Harib
                                                                                                           Nuqub                                                                   d
                         HODEIDAH
                              DAH                                                                                                                                              a                     Shihr
              d




                                                                  (3199 m)                                         Nisab      Ataq                                        H
                                                 RAIMH Dhamar         Rida                                                                                                                Al Mukalla
                                                                       AL-BEIDA
                    Se




                                                 Wad Zabid
                                                    i
                                                            I B B AL-                                                                   Al Huwaymi
                         a




           14ºN                                                               Al Beida                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14ºN
                                                            Ibb         DHALE'E
                                                                   (3227 m)                                                                                     Bir Ali
                                                                                Al Dhale'e
                                                        Taiz                                        A B YA N
                                                                                       W
                                                                                        ad




                                                                                          B
                                                                                          i




                                                                                                                             Ahwar
                                                    TA I Z
                                                                                          ana




                                     Mocha
                                                                                                     Shaqra
                                                                  At Turbah
              ERITREA                                                    Lahej                  Zinjibar                                                                  Gulf                         of                    Ade n
                                               At
                                           Turbah       LAHEJ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Qadub
                                                                                       Aden                                                                                                                                                                                   Qalansiyah
                                                                       ADEN
           ETH.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Socotra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        'Abd al Kuri         Samha                                     )
                         DJIBOUTI                                                                           0           50        100      150 Kilometers                                                                                                                             Darsa                       TE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33513R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A
           12ºN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (HA         The Brothers N                   OR              12ºN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAMO T GOVER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               U
MAY 2009




                                                                                                            0                50              100 Miles
             42ºE                                        44ºE                                           46ºE                                            48ºE                                                 50ºE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SOMALIA                    52ºE                                           54ºE
