LVfiJ  FILE                              R EYSRESTRICTED
Report No. PTR=36a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
BRAZIL
March 17, 1970
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Equivalents (July 1969)
Currency Unit             - New Cruzeiro NCr
US$1.00                   - NCr 4.1
US$1 million              - NCr 4.1 million
NCr 1 million             - US$243,900
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Units of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric: British/US Equivalent
1 Kilometer (km)          - 0.62 miles (mi)
1 Meter (m)            2  - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 Square Kilometer (km ) - 0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
1 Metric ton (m ton)      - 0.98 lg. ton
1 Metric ton (m ton)      - 1.1 US short ton
Totals may not add up because of rounding



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY        .........................................
1.   INTRODUCTION ...................................1
2.   BACKGROUNI)      ......................................
A.   General ........       ............................1
B.   Transport Policy ...........................                2
3.  'THE HIGHWAY SECTOR ..............................               6
A.   The llighway Network; Characteristics and
Growth of Highway Traffic and the Vehicle
Fleet   ................................                 6
B.   Highway Administration .....................                6
C.   Highway Engineering ........................                8
D.   Highway Construction ..... .............                    9
E.  Ilighway Maintenance ..... .............                     9
F.   Highway Financing and Planning .............     .         10
4.   THE PROJECT ........        .............................       11
A.   General Description .....          ...................     11
B.   Highways to be Constructed and/or Paved                    12
C.   Consulting Services for Design and
Construction Supervision ....        .............      12
D.   Cost Estimates and Financing ....         ...........      13
E.   Execution of the Project .....         ..............      17
F.   Disbursement ...............................               18
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION .............................               19
A.   Introduction ...............................               19
B.   The Project Roads ..........................               20
C.   Benefits from the Project ....         ..............      23
6.   RECOMMENDATIONS .................. ...............              24
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Schaefer (Engineer), Siret
(Engineer/Economist) and Kanaan (Economist) who appraised the project
in September-October 1969.






TABLES
1.   Freight Transport by Mode of Transport (1961-1968)
2.   Passenger-Kilometers, Percentage Shares and Average Annual
Growth Rates of Total and Selected Items by Mode of
Transport
3.   Federal Investment in Transport by Modes
4.   Classification of Highways -- Lengths According to Type of
Jurisdiction, December, 1968
5.   Relations Among Area, Population and Length of Highways, 1968
6.   Relations Among Area, Population, and Number of Vehicles, 1967
7.   Vehicle Registration, by State, 1967
8.   Vehicle Fleet, 1967
9.   Highway Design Standards for New Roads
10.  Admissible Highway Design Standards for Improvement of
Existing Roads
11.  Forecasts of Annual Investment Expenditures for High
Priority Road Construction and/or Paving Works.
12.  Tentative Financing Plan -- Federal and State Highways
(1970-1973)
13.  List of Roads for Construction and/or Paving
14.  List of Roads for Detailed Engineering
15.  List of Roads for Feasibility Studies
16.  Average Daily Traffic on Project Roads
17.  Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs
18.  Average Daily Traffic -- Selected National Highways, 1968
19.  Internal Rates of Return for Roads Proposed for Construction
and/or Paving
CHIARTS
I.     National Highway Department (DNER)
IT.    GEIPOT
III.  lHighway Department of Maranhao
IV.    State H-lighway Department - Recommended
Standard Organizational Structure
ANNEX
A.   Transport Survey
I    -    Main Recommendations
II   -    Consultants Engaged in the Transport Survey
B.   First Plan of Action (PA-1)
Progress of Implementation



C.   Second Plan of Action (PA-2)
Outline of Measures and Objectives
D.   Reorganization of the Highway Administration
E.   The Project Roads
F.   Consultants Engaged in the Preparation of the Second
Highway Construction Project
MAPS
1.   General Highway Map
2.   Transport Survey - Phases I and II
3.   Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara
4.   Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco,
Alagoas
5.   Bahia, Sergipe
6.   Espirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro
7.   Minas Gerais
8.   Mato Grosso, Goias
9.   Parana
10. Santa Catarina
11. Rio Grande do Sul



ABBREVIATIONS
GEIPOT          -    Transport Study Group
DNER            -    National Highway Department
DER             -    State Highway Department
RFFSA           -    National Railways
DNPVN           -    National Port Organization
UNDP            -    United Nations Development Programme
USAID           -    United States Agency for International Development
USBPR           -    United States Bureau of Public Roads
ADT             -    Average Daily Traffic
IUCL            -    Sole Tax on Fuels and Lubricants
PA-1            -    First Transport Plan of Action
PA-2            -    Second Transport Plan of Action






BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The growing integration of Brazil's various regions requires
continued improvement of transport facilities as well as additions to
the existing network. At the same time, there is a need for better
utilization of the facilities, more effective coordination of the dif-
ferent modes and the elimination of railway deficits, one of the major
causes of Brazilian inflation.
ii.       Hiighways have assumed the dominant role in meeting the coun-
try's needs for transport services. In 1968 highway transport accounted
for over 70% of total freight ton-km and 90% of passenger-km.
iii.      Highlway administration is undergoing major changes with regard
to the distribution of responsibilities. Many of the activities of the
National Highway Department (DNER) are over-centralized and there is
duplication of services between National and State Highway Departments,
especially in more developed and populated states which have adequate
state highway organizations. To remedy this situation the Government
has decided to transfer all maintenance and construction functions to
State Highway Departments and leave the National Department to concen-
trate on planning, regulation and overall supervision of the road net-
work.
iv.       Since 1964 the Bank has had a continuing exchange of views
with the Government of Brazil regarding the improvement and extension
of the transport system. Following the Bank's recommendations a Trans-
port Survey was launclhed in 1965 and carried out in two stages. Phase
1, for which a US$1.5 million Bank grant was provided, covered highway
transport in four states, railway transport, coastal shipping and port
operations for three of Brazil's principal ports. Phase II was initiated
in 1967 with financial assistance from UNDP and USAID and with the Bank
acting as executing agent. It covered highway transport in fourteen
states and is now nearing completion. Prior to the First Highway Project
(Loan 567 BR - see paragraph viii below) the Government submitted a Plan
of Action (PA-l) summarizing its transport objectives and giving schedules
for action on highways, railways and ports. This Plan has been satisfac-
torily implemented. Before negotiating the proposed loan, the Government
submitted to the Bank a new Plan of Action (PA-2) outlining the measures
required to bring about further improvements in the transport sector.
This is a suitable basis for a further loan for highways.
v.        This project will be the second for highways in Brazil based
on the Transport Survey recommendations. It consists of: (a) the con-
struction and paving of 872 km of primary and secondary highways, (b)



- il -
the improvement and paving of 1,267 km of primary highways, (c) the de-
tailed engineering and supervision of construction for the proposed works,
and (d) additional consulting services for detailed engineering of about
2,300 km of highways and feasibility studies on another 3,800 km, to re-
inforce planning in the National Highway Department and to improve super-
vision of highway construction. The total cost of the project is estimated
at US$255.1 million equivalent. The Bank loan of US$100 million equiva-
lent will finance 40% of the costs of construction and consulting services
rendered by Brazilian consultants and the foreign exchange component of
the costs of foreign consultants. Total foreign exchange costs of the
project will be US$53.1 million, or about 53% of the amount of the loan.
Retroactive financing will be provided to cover the foreign exchange com-
ponent (US$300,000) of costs incurred for the detailed engineering of one
project road designed by foreign consultants (X.Dorsch - Germany).
vi.       About 50% of the roads included for construction and/or paving
are located in the Northeast, one of the poorest regions of Brazil. The
construction program proposed under this project will meet this region's
most urgent highway needs. The program of feasibility and detailed en-
gineering studies included in the project emphasizes the development of
Brazil's western region, where the main barrier to development is the
lack of transportation to distant markets. The proposed studies will
cover the region's most important trunk roads.
vii.      Detailed engineering is complete for all project roads and is
satisfactory.
viii.     The first highway construction loan (Loan 567-BR, US$26 million)
was signed in 1968 and despite initial delays in making it effective, is
proceeding satisfactorily. Two railway projects were financed in 1952
(Loan 65-BR, US$12.5 million) and 1953 (Loan 92-BR, US$12.5 million) and a
highway maintenance project in 1953 (Loan 75-BR, US$3 million); all three
loans have been fully disbursed.
ix.       Execution of the project will be the responsibility of the
National Highway Department for national highways and of the respective
state highway departments for state and/or delegated national highways.
The loan will be to the Federal Government, and the National Highway
Department, as executing agency, will administer a revolving fund for
payments to contractors, and consultants. Project agreements will be
signed not later than the loan agreement between the Bank and those
states where project works are to be carried out on state and/or dele-
gated national highways.
x.        Contracts for the project works will be let on the basis of
international competitive bidding and the National Highway Department is
proceeding with the prequalification of contractors.
xi.       Economic rates of return for the different roads range from
17% to 47%.



- iii -
xii.      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$100
million equivalent. On the basis of the average economic life of road
construction works and length of construction period, the appropriate
term would be 25 years, including a four-year period of grace.






BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Brazil has requested a loan to help finance
(a) the construction and paving of 872 km of highways, (b) the improve-
ment and paving of 1,267 km of highways, (c) the detailed engineering
and supervision of construction for the proposed works, and (d) addi-
tional consulting and expert services to carry out highway feasibility
and detailed engineering studies on road sections already selected, to
reinforce planning in the National Highway Department (DNER) and to im-
prove supervision of highway construction works.
1.02      On the Bank's recommendation a general Transport Survey was
launched in 1965 with the assistance of foreign consultants. The first
phase wps completed in 1967 and the second phase is nearing completion
(para. 2.04). The First Highway Construction Project (Loan 567-BR in
1968) was a direct outcome of Phase I of the Transport Survey. It in-
volved the construction and/or paving of various road sections totalling
429 km. Delay in passing the necessary legislation required a 2-1/2
months postponement of the effective date of the Loan but this did not
interfere with the bidding and contracting process. The Loan was declared
effective on May 16, 1969, all construction contracts have been approved
by the Bank and construction has begun on all project roads.
1.03      Other Bank projects in the transportation sector included two
railway projects financed by Loan 65-BR and 92-BR (US$12.5 million each)
in 1952 and 1953 covering the rehabilitation of the Central do Brasil fa-
cilities and the purchase of new rolling stock.  A highway maintenance
project was financed by Loan 75-BR (US$3 million) in 1953 covering the
purchase of maintenance equipment for the State of Rio de Janeiro. All
loans have been fully disbursed.
1.04      This report has been prepared by Messrs. Schaefer (Engineer),
Siret (Engineer/Economist) and Kanaan (Economist) who appraised the pro-
ject in September-October 1969.
2. BACKGROUND
A.  General
2
2.01      Brazil, with an area of 8.5 million km , is the fifth largest
country in the world. The estimated 1969 population was 92.3 million and
population growth averages 3% p.a. Overall population density is low,
at about 11 per kn2, but there are great regional variations, ranging
from 3,000 per km2 in the State of Guanabara to less than one per km in
the Amazones. Brazil has a broad range of ecological conditions which



- 2 -
permit production of all tropical, sub-tropical and temperate crops. Un-
developed land and water resources are vast and there is a great potential
for expansion of agricultural production.  In the last two decades, growth
and diversification of industrial production have been remarkable, and the
country is now self-sufficient in most industrial products.
2.02      In 1968 Gross National Product at market prices was estimated
at about NCr 91.7 billion (1968 prices - US$27.0 billion equivalent).
Per capita GNP in the same year was about US$302 equivalent. While the
early sixties were characterized by sluggish growth and high inflation -
up to 90% p.a. - major progress towards sustained growth has been regis-
tered in more recent years. In 1968 GNP grew 7.4% in real terms, while
the cost of living increase for the year was 24%. Prospects for continued
growth and gradual reduction of inflation appear good (Economic Report WH
195a).
B. Transport Policy
2.03      Because of the heavy reliance of the economy on export crops
and the need to open up new lands for productive use, transport has always
played a dominant role in Brazil's economic development. The growing inte-
gration of the various regions now requires continued improvement of trans-
port facilities as well as additions to the existing network. There is
also a need for better utilization of the facilities, more effective co-
ordination of the different modes, and the elimination of railway operat-
ing deficits, one of the major causes of the Brazilian inflation.
2.04      Since 1964 the Bank has had a continuing exchange of views with
the Government of Brazil regarding the improvement and extension of the
transport system. In 1965 the Government agreed with the Bank's recom-
mendation to launch a Transport Survey. The Survey was carried out by
consultants in two stages. Phase I, covering highway transport in four
states, railway transport, coastal shipping, and port operations for
Brazil's three main ports, was started in 1965 and completed in 1967.
A Bank grant of US$1.5 million was provided to finance half of Phase I
foreign exchange costs while the other half was covered by the Government.
Phase II, covering highway transport in fourteen states, was started in
1967 and is nearing completion. Phase II foreign exchange costs were fi-
nanced by UNDP (US$1.4 million), USAID (US$1.0 million) and the Government
(US$1.4 million). All local costs for Phase I and II were financed by
the Government. The Bank acted as executing agent. The main recommenda-
tions from these studies are summarized in Annex A.
2.05      Both Phases of the Survey were conditional on the Government
agreeing to Memoranda of Understanding on steps to be taken to improve
transport services. Prior to Loan 567-BR the Government submitted a
Plan of Action (PA-1) summarizing its transport objectives and giving
schedules for action on highways, railways and ports. This Plan has been
satisfactorily implemented (Annex B). The Government has submitted to
the Bank a new Plan of Action (PA-2) outlining the measures required to
bring about further improvements in the transport sector (Annex C). This



- 3 -
is a suitable basis for a further loan for highways. The principal mea-
sures included in PA-2 are referred to in the following paragraphs.
TranSport Coordination
2.06      To coordinate and supervise the Transport Survey, as well as
to provide counterpart personnel and required facilities, a Government
agency - Grupo Executivo de Integracao da Politica de Transportes,
GEIPOT - was established in 1965. The survey is now about complete and
GEIPOT has been formally established as a permanent agency within the
Ministry of Transport (Cihart II). As such, GEIPOT will be responsible
for the elaboration of a national transport policy with a view to improv-
ing coordination between the various modes of transport and reducing
overall transport costs. Tnis reorganization has not yet been fully
put into effect anid its implementation is one of PA-2's main objectives.
2.07      One of the important tasks of the Transport Survey was to under-
take a study on highway pricing policies. Regional analyses have been
conducted and the coordinating consultants of Phase II (KAMPSAX-Denmark)
have recently submitted a report including recommendations for a national
policy for road user charges. The report concludes that (a) the amount
of fuel taxes that would be collected from highway users during the pe-
riod 1969-1976 would fully cover the economic costs of interurban high-
ways - marginal costs, i.e. variable costs of maintenance of highways -
but only about 70% of the incremental costs of administering, maintain-
ing and expanding the highway network in that period, and (b) the revenues
from charges levied on various types of vehicles do not reflect their
relative use of the hiighway system nor their effect upon the physical
design of highways.  Automobile traffic carries the main burden of charges
while heavy vehicles contribute insufficient amounts in relation to their
use of road facilities. The above shortfall of fuel revenues below in-
cremental costs is overstated, in that significant amounts of other taxes
paid by vehicle owners and users are excluded -- e.g. the road tax (para.
3.21). If proceeds from these taxes are added, the gap would be only
around 10-15%. To improve resource allocation in the transport sector
a restructuring of these charges, in the sense of shifting more of the
burden to truck traffic, should be carried out promptly. This would not
significantly increase the level of taxation in the private sector which
is already bearing a heavy tax burden (IBRD WH 195a). Under PA-2 the Gov-
ernment has stated its intention to discuss the report's recommendations
with the Bank in the course of 1970, with a view to formulating a nation-
al policy for road user charges.
2.08      PA-1 envisaged that a new railway cost-based tariff would be in-
troduced in 1969 with the cooperation of consultants (SOFRERAIL-France).
Since these consultants commenced work only in July 1969, there has not
been sufficient time to adopt new tariffs. PA-2 calls for the adoption
of a rate and fare policy based on the costs of the respective services
and, pending implementation of this policy, rates and fares are to be
adjusted periodically to keep in line with inflation.



- 4 -
2.09      There is no administrative allocation of traffic as between
modes in Brazil and users are free to select that mode of transport
which best suits their requirements. Entry to the interstate road
transport industry requires DNER approval, but the granting of licenses
is practically automatic. Intrastate trucking operators are licensed
by the State Highway Departments (DERs) in the same way. Bus companies
must apply to DNER or to DERs, prove public need and file tariffs and
timetables for each route. On the whole, road transport regulation is
not unduly restrictive.
2.10      In recent years about one fourth of total Federal fixed in-
vestment expenditures have been in the transportation sector. This re-
presents about NCrl,500 million (US$375 million equivalent) annually,
of which close to 50% was spent on road construction (Table 3). At the
state level, the share of transportation in total capital expenditure is
about the same and is almost entirely directed to road construction. In
the past the balance of investments among the various modes of transport
has been generally adequate, but some investments, particularly for rail-
way line construction, have been made where the yield has been extremely
low. AU new railway line construction should be preceded by economic
feasibility studies and provision to this end has been made in PA-2.
Highways
2.11      Details of the highway sector are given in Chapter 3.
Railways
2.12      The railway network comprises about 30,400 route km of which
roughly 24,800 km are operated by a Federal company (Rede Ferroviaria
Federal - RFFSA) and 5,600 km by a State company (Sao Paulo State Rail-
ways). In addition 630 km are owned and operated by a Government mining
company (Cia Vale do Rio Doce - CVRD) and carry mostly iron ore traffic.
About 90Z of the network is meter gauge track. Between 1961 and 1968
railway freight traffic (excluding CVRD) increased from 10.4 billion
ton km to 13.5 billion ton km, but passenger traffic declined from 18.0
billion passenger km to 13.4 billion passenger km. In relative terms
the railways have been losing traffic to other modes of transport. Be-
tween 1961 and 1968 the rail share of total freight traffic movements de-
clined from 18.2% to 14.4%, and of passenger traffic from 37% to about 8%
(Tables 1 and 2).
2.13      In recent years railways operations - both Federal and State -
have been characterized by heavy financial deficits. In 1963 the op-
erating ratio for RFFSA reached 358 with an operating deficit of US$237
million equivalent. Excess labor, obsolete equipment, maintenance of
uneconomic lines and lags in tariff adjustments were largely responsible
for these deficits.
2.14      Under PA-1 a series of measures was envisaged to improve RFFSA
operations. The principal measures were: administrative reorganization,



closing of uneconomic lines and stations, improvements in operating ef-
ficiency (dieselization), reorganization of accounting, restructuring of
tariffs, and reduction in personnel. Implementation of this program has
progressed satisfactorily (Annex B), with encouraging results. The 1968
operating deficit was reduced to US$142 million equivalent (US$102 million
equivalent if concessionary services to Government are "normalized" i.e.
priced at commercial rates) and the operating ratio - before normaliza-
tion - reduced to 200. Further progress can be expected, provided strict
redimensioning and rehabilitation policies are followed. The objectives
and measures listed in Annex C are the main components of such policies
and have been included in PA-2.
Ports
2.15      There are 35 ports of importance along the coastline of Brazil.
Total port traffic in 1967 was about 65.6 million tons of dry cargo. Of
this, about 16.9 million tons were handled at Santos and 14.8 million at
Rio de  zaneiro.  The specialized ore port of Vitoria handled 6 million
tons.
2.16      Overall supervision of activities in the port and waterways
subsector is in the hands of the National Department of Ports and Water-
ways (DNPVN). This organization is over-centralized and lacks the flexi-
bility of operation which is essential in the maritime trade. Decentral-
ization of port administration, adoption of modern accounting procedures
and establishment of cost-based port charges were the main items included
in PA-1 in relation to port operations. Progress has been slow but im-
plementation of the recommended measures has started (Annex B). The fur-
ther steps to be taken in these fields and the introduction of systematic
training of personnel are in PA-2 (Annex C).
Coastal Shipping
2.17      In terms of ton kilometers, coastal shipping carries about 13%
of the country's total freight traffic. The present fleet is too large
for the available cargo and generally overage. The Transport Survey re-
commended the establishment of fixed sailing schedules and the merger of
shipping companies, but little progress has been recorded.
Air Transport
2.18      Because of its large size, Brazil is relying increasingly on
air transport. In recent years the annual passenger traffic growth rate
has been 12.5%. The major commercial airline company (VARIG) has exten-
sive domestic and international networks linking Brazil with other cities
in South and North America, Western Europe and Africa.



- 6 -
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Highway Network; Characteristics and Growth of Highway Traffic
and the Vehicle Fleet
3.01      Brazil has a total road network of about 933,000 km of which
40,000 km are national and 114,000 km are state. The balance includes
mainly earth roads and tracks - feeder roads and links between minor
towns - under jurisdiction of the municipalities. About 16,500 km or
40% of the national network are paved, but only 19,300 km and 3,800 km
of the state and municipal networks have concrete or bituminous pave-
ment (Table 4).
3.02      Tables 5 and 6 show the relation between area, population,
motor vehicle registrations and length of paved and unpaved highways in
each state. In all states, except Sao Paulo and Guanabara, only a small
percentage of the national and state highway network is paved. In gen-
eral there is a need to extend the road system and to improve existing
roads, including the upgrading of the pavement.
3.03      Between 1961 and 1968 total freight traffic in Brazil increased
from 75 billion ton km to 148 billion ton km, or at an average rate close
to 10.5% p.a. Road traffic over the same period rose by approximately
12.5% p.a., while rail transport and coastal shipping grew only at 7.2%
and 4.5% p.a. respectively. This was reflected in an increase of the road
share of total freight traffic from 63% in 1961 to over 72% in 1968 (Table
1). Total intercity passenger traffic expanded from 49 billion passen-
ger km in 1961 to 108 billion passenger km in 1968. Over the same period
the road share of passenger traffic rose from 78% to 92% (Table 2). The
total vehicle fleet in 1967 was estimated to be about 1.9 million cars
and pick-ups, 53,000 buses, and 429,000 trucks. In recent years, the
growth of the fleet has averaged 8% p.a., and in 1967 the vehicle density
was one for every 28 persons, the third highest in Latin America. Prac-
tically all vehicle needs are met by domestic production (225,000 p.a.)
and future growth of the fleet is not expected to be limited by productive
capacity. About half of the truck fleet is 5-9 tons capacity, gasoline
powered; heavy diesel trucks of over 15 tons capacity account for only
7% of the truck fleet (Tables 7 and 8).
B. Highway Administration
3.04      The organizations of the National Highway Department (Departa-
mento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem - DNER) and of one typical State
Highway Department (DER) are shown on Charts I and III. The standard
organizational structure for state Highway Departments recommended by
the Transport Survey is shown on Chart IV.
3.05      DNER, under the Ministry of Transport, is responsible for the
administration of the national highway network. It carries out its re-
sponsibilities for maintenance and construction through 20 district of-
fices in the states and federal territories. State highway departments



-7 -
are similarly responsible for state networks. In view of the size of
Brazil and the complexity of its road network, many of DNER's activities
are too centralized. Furthermore, there is duplication of services be-
tween the National and State Highway Departments, especially in the more
developed and populated states which have adequate highway organizations.
To eliminate this duplication and reduce centralization, the Government
has decided to gradually transfer maintenance and construction functions
from DNER to the DERs.  DNER will thus be able to concentrate on the
planning, regulation and overall supervision of the road network.
3.06      The first steps towards this new distribution of responsibil-
ities have been taken. In 1968, Brazilian management consultants - Getulio
Vargas Foundation - completed the first phase of the study of DNER's re-
organization. Decree 64,242 and Decree-Law 512, both passed in March 1969,
have formally introduced DNER's new organization (Chart I), which is based
on modern administrative principles and places emphasis on DNER's planning
functions. The second phase of the Vargas study started recently with the
objective to define new and more efficient operational procedures and me-
thods. For this second phase, which requires specialized engineering ex-
pertise, technical assistance by the U.S. Bureau of Public Roads is to be
provided under an existing USAID loan. The Government has confirmed the
agreement reached for Loan 567-BR that DNER's reorganization would be im-
plemented no later than 1971. Under PA-2, the Government has expressed
its intention to implement DNER's reorganization with U.S. BPR assistance.
3.07      Concurrently with DNER's reorganization, the strengthening and
reorganization of DERs has commenced. During the two phases of the
Transport Survey, reorganization studies were conducted for the main
states in Brazil.* The objective of these studies was to increase the
efficiency of the DERs and thus prepare for a gradual transfer of DNER's
maintenance and construction function to the respective DERs.
3.08      Important steps to carry out the recommendations of these studies
have already been taken in several states (Annex D). Assurances have been
given by the Government that in those states where project construction
works are to be carried out on state and/or delegated national roads the
DERs will be reorganized. Such reorganization will be based on the Trans-
port Survey recommendations and coordinated with the delegation of main-
tenance functions for Federal roads (para. 3.09). Under PA-2 the Federal
Government has indicated that it will ensure that reorganization of DERs
will also be gradually carried out in all states covered by the Transport
Survey.
3.09      Proceeds of the uniform road tax are earmarked for maintenance
purposes (para. 3.21). To back the transfer of maintenance responsibil-
ities by adequate funding, DNER has stated its intention to allocate its
*    The study for DER Sao Paulo was financed by USAID and carried out
separately but was concurrent with reorganization studies carried
out for the other states.



- 8 -
share of tax collections to those states undertaking to maintain the na-
tional network. The Government has agreed that delegation of maintenance
functions and transfer of necessary resources will be carried out in those
states where project construction works will be undertaken on state and/or
delegated national roads. Under PA-2, the Government has stated that such
delegation will be extended gradually to all main states.
3.10      In the future DNER will exercise much closer supervision over
the planning and financing of state highways. Decree Law 512 which re-
organized DNER, has given it necessary legal powers. This is in line
with the Government's new policy to gain control over local governments
capital expenditures by insisting upon a review of local government pro-
grams prior to capital transfers (Economic Report IBRD WH 195a).  In the
future there will therefore be the basis to ensure that economic criteria
are followed in the selection of new highway investments. DNER's control
has, however, not yet been exercised, largely due to the lack of proper
staffing in the planning department which employs only 8 engineers and
has no economists. Under the proposed project, strengthening of DNER's
planning capacity is to be arranged (para. 4.08) and one of the objectives
of PA-2 is that DNER make use of its legal right to control state capital
expenditures for roads.
3.11      In recent years a serious obstacle to efficient highway admin-
istration has been the chronic understaffing of DNER resulting from the
low salaries offered and the freeze on Government recruitment. In 1969
new and substantially higher salary scales were adopted for DNER and limi-
tations on recruitment of professionals were relaxed. This should enable
DNER to attract and keep capable personnel.
C. Highway Engineering
3.12      Design standards, agreed by the Bank and adopted for the First
Highway Project (Loan 567-BR), have now been legalized as general design
standards for the entire country (Tables 9 and 10). They have been used
for the engineering of all highway works included in the project.
3.13      The Transport Survey, which was carried out by foreign consult-
ants assisted by local counterparts, has had a major impact on Brazilian
engineering practices by introducing systematic economic evaluation of
transportation projects. Drawing on this experience, able consulting
firms have been established in nearly all of the major states of Brazil.
All studies* for the preparation of the proposed project were carried out
by local consultants.
3.14      The regulatory provisions for maximum motor vehicle weight and
dimensions are satisfactory. The maximum axle load is 10 Tons for single
*    (Except for highway BR 324, for which foreign consultants were em-
ployed, see paras. 4.05 and 4.14)



axles and 17 Tons for tandem-axles. In recent years the enforcement of
weight regulations has improved, but it is still unsatisfactory. DNER
has now 41 weighing stations installed or on order. The Government has
confirmed that vehicle regulations will be enforced on the whole national
network, as well as state networks in those states where project works
would be carried out on State and/or delegated national roads (Minas
Gerais, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul).
D.  Highway Construction
3.15      In the past, shortages of funds often delayed payments to con-
tractors and it was difficult for DNER to enforce work schedules. Fur-
thermore, the shortage of DNER's personnel often led to inadequate super-
vision. As a result, quality of construction was often poor and long
extension of contractual work periods was common. Although the situation
is somewhat improved, it is still not satisfactory and the Government has
decided to adopt the policy of employing consultants to reinforce DNER's
limited supervisory staff. Provision to this effect is included in PA-2.
3.16      The local construction industry is well developed, and its meth-
ods and equipment are up-to-date. Prequalification of contractors for works
under the First Highway Project showed that over 25 firms have the tech-
nical and financial capacity to handle large scale highway contracts.
3.17      In the last five years the Brazilian construction industry has
carried out highway works amounting to US$500-600 million equivalent per
year. Under the most limiting conditions, i.e., assuming no foreign par-
ticipation, construction included in this project would add only 15% to
the current volume of work. No construction capacity shortage is expected.
3.18      In the past, DNER limited itself to reviewing the technical ca-
pacity of contractors, giving little attention to their financial capac-
ity. With the First Highway Project, international practices regarding
bidding and contracting were introduced in Brazil. It is now DNER's pol-
icy gradually to eliminate former practices, extend the use of prequali-
fication of contractors, and call for bids based on contractor's unit prices.
E. Highway Maintenance
3.19      Maintenance has long been neglected in Brazil.  The lack of
proper organization, equipment and funds have made it difficult to keep
roads at a suitable level of traffic serviceability. However, in the
last five years USAID has given considerable financial assistance to
several states for the purchase of new equipment, and marked improvements
in the operations can now be observed.
3.20      Consultants for Phase I and II of the Transport Survey were
entrusted with maintenance studies for all states concerned. All reports
are now available and include recommendations for improvements in mainte-
nance methods and operations, procurement of equipment and materials,
preparation of general maintenance programs and required organizational



- 10 -
changes. The consultants have also prepared estimates of maintenance
costs and developed appropriate maintenance accounting systems. This
will provide the highway management with a valuable tool for controlling
and improving the efficiency of maintenance operations.
3.21      Decree Law 999 of October 1969 made the road tax on vehicles
uniform for the whole country. A charge equivalent to a maximum of 2% of
the assessed value of the vehicles will now be levied annually, the pro-
ceeds to be earmarked for maintenance and distributed 40% to DNER and 60%
to states and municipalities. Tax collections are expected to total about
US$40 million in 1970 and to grow at 8% p.a. thereafter. The provision of
adequate resources by the road tax, as well as the combining of all mainte-
nance functions in the hands of state authorities, should result in a con-
siderable improvement of maintenance operations. During loan negotiations
the Government confirmed that it will properly maintain the whole national
network, and the state networks in those states where project works will
be undertaken on state and/or delegated national highways (Minas Gerais,
Santa Catarina, and Rio Grande do Sul).
F. Highway Financing and Planning
3.22      The main source of revenues for highway purposes is the federal
tax on fuels and lubricants (Imposto Unico Sobre Combustiveis e Lubrifi-
cantes - IUCL). In 1968 proceeds from this tax totalled about NCr 1,840
million (US$460 million). Close to 80% of the collections are placed into
the National Road Fund. The remainder is shared between the Government
Oil Monopoly (Petrobras), the railways and the Ministry of Mines and
Energy. The Road Fund is distributed to DNER (50%), the DERs (40%) and
municipalities (10%). The allocation among states is based on population,
area, fuel consumption and production of crude and refined oil. Resources
from IUCL can be used to cover capital or current expenditures.
3.23      Three other federal taxes, set apart for highway purposes, are
levied on road users: the road tax (para. 3.21), the vehicle insur-
ance tax (10% of insurance premiums), and a tax on inter-urban bus fares
(5% of the fare). The road tax is earmarked for highway maintenance and
the insurance tax for road safety. The states and municipalities also
impose other taxes and fees but total receipts from these are relatively
small.
3.24      Earmarked resources are supplemented at the state and municipal
levels by budgetary allocations. Large federal budgetary appropriations
which characterized the early sixties have now been almost totally dis-
continued.
3.25      To execute all high priority road projects identified during
the transportation survey and shown in the Master Plans, additional re-
sources amounting to NCr 1,020 million (US$249 million equivalent) should
be secured each year (Tables 11 and 12). Under the proposed project,
detailed engineering studies for 2,290 km and feasibility studies for an
additional 3,814 km of highways will be undertaken (para. 4.07). This



- 11 -
will ensure preparation of projects for which Bank financing could be
considered in 1971 and 1972. If Bank participation were to be based on
the present cost sharing formula (40% of construction costs), commitments
in 1971 and 1972 may be of the order of US$80-100 million equivalent in
each year. If the preparations being made were to result in such lending,
by 1971 Bank disbursement would cover about 40% of the deficit.
HighwayaPlanning
3.26      A National Transport Plan, covering all modes of transport, was
published in 1964. It is based on a 25-year program which, in the high-
way field, provides for the construction of some 95,000 km of roads. With-
in this program there is a Preferential Plan which was updated in 1967 and
which lists about 25,000 km of priority roads. Both of these plans are
very broad and do not unduly restrict the more meaningful shorter term
programming. All these documents are due for revision in 1970.
3.27      In 1967 a 3-year investment budget (1968-70) was prepared which
forms the basis for annual budgets. Investment programs in the 3-year
budget and in recent annual budgets are essentially based on Transport
Survey Master Plan priorities. The main exceptions are for low cost pene-
tration roads with modest design characteristics, planned to open up
virgin territory.
3.28      In order to update and continue the Master Plans and to ensure
that economic priorities guide highway investment decisions, it will be
necessary to (a) improve the present data collection and processing sys-
tem, (b) establish within DNER a central investment review mechanism for
both national and state projects (para. 3.10) and (c) strengthen DNER's
planning office. Under the proposed project, assistance will be provided
to this end (para. 4.08).
4. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The proposed project, identified on the basis of Highway Master
Plans prepared during Phases I and II of the Transport Survey, consists of:
(1) The construction, including paving, of a total of 872 km
of highways in the states of Bahia, Minas Gerais, Goias,
Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul (see Maps 1, 5, 7, 8,
10, 11);
(2) The improvement and paving of a total of 1,267 km of
highways in the states of Piaui, Ceara, Bahia, Espirito
Santo, Rio de Janeiro, Minas Gerais and Santa Catarina
(see Maps 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 10);



- 12 -
(3) Detailed engineering and construction supervision for the
above highways; and
(4) Additional consulting services to:
(a) carry out detailed engineering for 2,290 km of
selected road sections;
(b) carry out feasibility studies for 3,814 km of
selected road sections;
(c) strengthen the planning department of DNER; and
(d) improve methods and procedures of construction
supervision.
4.02      The lists of roads proposed for construction, detailed engineer-
ing and feasibility studies are given in Tables 13, 14 and 15, respective-
ly. About 50% of the roads included for construction are located in the
northeast. On the other hand, the program of detailed engineering and fea-
sibility studies gives increased emphasis to the development of Brazil's
western regions. This includes the states of Mato Grosso and Goias with
a total area of 1.8 million km2 most of which is still sparsely populated,
but has been identified by a recent Bank agricultural mission as of high
potential, especially for rice production and cattle raising. The main
barrier to development in the western region is the lack of transportation
to distant markets, and the proposed project includes studies for important
trunk roads in this area.
B. Highways to be Constructed and/or Paved
4.03      The essential characteristics of the highways included in the
project for construction are given in Table 13. More detailed descriptions
of the roads are given in Chapter 5 -- Economic Evaluation -- and Annex E.
C. Consulting Services for Design and Construction Supervision
4.04      Detailed engineering studies are complete for all roads proposed
for construction. The surveys, soil studies, geometric and structural de-
signs, and drafting of specifications were carried out in accordance with
modern engineering principles and the quality of the work is satisfactory.
4.05      With the exception of highway BR324 (para. 4.14), all detailed
engineering studies have been carried out by Brazilian consultants. These
consultants are listed in Annex F.
4.06      To establish continuity of responsibility, DNER has agreed that
the consultants responsible for the design of highways proposed for con-
struction would also be employed for supervision of the construction (see
also para. 4.09). Signing of the consultants' contracts will be a condi-
tion for loan effectiveness.



- 13 -
Additional Consulting Services
4.07      With a view to preparing further highway projects suitable for
Bank financing, detailed engineering studies for about 2,290 km and feasi-
bility studies for an additional 3,814 km of highways have been included
in the project. Estimated construction costs would be about US$229 mil-
lion and US$320 million, respectively (Tables 14 and 15)*. These studies
should result in construction projects being ready for financing in 1971
and subsequent years.
4.08      The planning department of DNER is understaffed and needs to be
strengthened (para. 3.10). DNER is planning to engage a team of at least
five Brazilian transport economists. In addition, under the present pro-
ject, the services of four foreign experts will be secured, namely, two
transportation economists, one programming and budgeting expert and one
traffic engineer. This team will assist in (a) establishing a comprehen-
sive data collection system, (b) updating and continuing the Transport
Survey Master Plans, (c) screening federal and state investment projects,
(d) coordinating investment programming and annual budgeting and (e) train-
ing DNER staff. Foreign experts will be recruited individually after Bank
approval for a minimum of two years.
4.09      Project works will be supervised by the consultants responsible
for the design (para. 4.06). To establish appropriate supervising proce-
dures and to ensure coordination between the various consultant teams,
DNER will form a group of experienced engineers within its construction
department. To assist this group, a team of five experienced engineers
will be provided by a foreign consulting firm for the period required to
carry out construction of the project roads.
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.10      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$255.1 million
equivalent, including allowances for quantity contingencies. A summary of
the project cost and Bank participation follows:
*    See footnotes to Table 15.






- 14 -
US$ (Millions)
NCr (Millions)             Equivalent            Bank Participation*
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total    US$ Millions Equiv.
1.  Construction and paving of 872 km
of highways                               311.4    98.4    409.8    76.0    24.0   100.0           40.0   (40%)
2.  Improvement and paving of 1,267 km
of highways                               290.2    91.7    381.9    70.8    22.4    93.2           37.3   (40%)
Sub-Total                601.6   190.1    791.7   146.8    46.4   193.2           77.3
Quantity Contingencies (about 10%)         60.0    19.0       79.0    14.4      4.6    19.0         7.6
661.6   209.1    870.7   161.2    51.0   212.2          84.9
3.  Consulting Services for:
(a)  Design for items 1 and 2              30.0      1.2      31.2     7.3      0.3      7.6        0.3   (FE)***
(b)  Supervision for items 1 and 2         60.2      2.5     62.7    14.7       0.6    15.3         6.2   (40%/FE)***
Contingencies (10%) (for item 3(b)) 5.8        0.4       6.2      1.4      0.1      1.5         .6
Sub-Total Item 3          96.0      4.1    100.1    23.4       1.0    24.4         7.1
4.  Additional Consulting and Expert
Services for:
(a)  Detailed Engineering of 2,290 km
of Highways                           37.7       -      37.7      9.2       -       9.2        3.7   (40%)
(b)  Feasibility Studies of 3,814 km
of Highways                           32.4       -      32.4      7.9       -       7.9        3.2   (40%)
(c)  Strengthening DNER's Planning
(72 man-months)                         .4     1.6       2.0      0.1       .4      .5         .4   (FE)**
(d)  Improving DNER's construction
supervision (120 man-months)            .8     2.9       3.7      0.2       .7       .9         .7   (FE)**
Sub-Total Item 4          71.3      4.5     75.8    17.4       1.1    18.5         8.0
*    See also para. 4.18
**   FE:  ForeiRn Exchange Component
*** For Item 3(a) the foreign exchange costs relate only to the desirn of highway BR324 for which foreign
consultants were employed.
For Item 3(b) Bank participation would cover:
- 40% of costs of services rendered by local consultants:
- foreign exchange component of the costs of services rendered by foreign consultants.






- 15 -
4.11      The estimates of construction costs are based on July 1969
estimates converted at the then official exchange rate (Table 13). Unit
prices are based on estimates of the consulting engineers and checked
against unit prices from contracts recently awarded for similar works.
Quantities were taken from detailed engineering studies.
4.12      A 10% contingency allowance has been added to the construction
costs for quantity increases. Loan disbursements are to be based on the
dollar value of the works at bid date (para. 4.26). The short period
allowed between preparation of the estimates and bid date, and the Gov-
ernment's flexible exchange rate policy eliminate the risk that unit
prices expressed in U.S. dollar at bid date would be artifically inflated.
Price contingencies would therefore be justified only to cover "real"
(i.e. related to US$) increases in prices during construction. However,
under the proposed disbursement procedure, covering the increases in in-
ternational prices would require the definition of a sliding Bank partici-
pation formula. This is regarded as unduly complicated and is not recom-
mended. Consequently, no price contingencies have been allowed for in
the loan and, as a result, Bank participation may be slightly less than
the apparent 40% (para. 4.18).
4.13      The foreign exchange component for construction has been esti-
mated for each highway on the basis of contract awards to (a) local firms
or (b) foreign firms. The range is from 15% of the total construction
costs if local contractors, using primarily local equipment, were employed
to 45% if all work was carried out by foreign contractors. Under the First
Highway Project several foreign contractors showed interest and one con-
tract was awarded to a joint venture with a foreign partner. Considering
the improvement of bidding and contracting procedures, the size of the
program and the introduction of packaged lots (para. 4.23), it can reason-
ably be expected that an increased number of foreign contractors will par-
ticipate. Assuming therefore that one fourth of the construction would go
to foreign contractors and three fourths to local contractors, the foreign
exchange component would be about 24%.
4.14      The cost of detailed engineering for project roads has already
been borne by DNER. The foreign exchange costs are for the employment of
foreign consultants (X. Dorsch - Germany) for the design of highway BR 324.
Since this project was prepared under the close supervision of the Bank,
hIe loan will provide retroactive financing for the foreign exchange com-
ponent of the costs incurred since July 1, 1969. This is estimated at
about US$300,000.
4.15      The cost of construction supervision has been estimated on the
basis of the arrangements described in paragraph 4.06. The foreign ex-
change costs relate to the employment of foreign consultants for the super-
vision of construction of highway BR 324.
4.16      The costs of the additional consulting services have been es-
timated on the basis of:



- 16 -
(a)  Contracts recently awarded in Brazil for the preparation
of feasibility and detailed engineering studies, and
(b)  Costs experienced in recent Bank contracts for experts
of international repute.
4.17      The total foreign exchange component of the project including
construction and consulting and expert services is about 21%.
4.18      Bank participation in the project will cover the foreign
exchange component of services rendered by foreign consultants and 40%
of the costs of consulting services rendered by local consultants, and
of construction works. The employment of local consultants will further
strengthen engineering consulting capacity in Brazil and financing of
the related local currency expenditures is therefore considered justified.
Total foreign exchange costs of the project will be US$53.1 million, which
is about 53% of the amount of the loan; the balance of US$46.9 million
will finance local currency expenditures. In summary, Bank participation
will be as follows:
(i)  Forty percent of construction costs;
(ii)  Foreign exchange component (35%) of the costs of
consulting services for detailed engineering of (i)
above (para. 4.14);
(iii) Forty percent of the costs of construction super-
vision when services are rendered exclusively by
Brazilian consultants and foreign exchange component
(35%) in the case of BR 324 for which foreign con-
sultants will be employed (para. 4.15);
(iv)  Forty percent of costs of consulting services for
preparation of feasibility and detailed engineering
studies; and
(v) Foreign exchange component (70%) of the costs of
consultants to assist DNER in planning, and in con-
struction supervision.
4.19      Construction is expected to commence during the second quarter
of 1970 and to be completed towards the end of 1973. Feasibility and
detailed engineering studies will be started in 1970. Individual con-
sultants for assistance in planning and in construction supervision are
expected to be retained for 2 and 3-vear periods respectively. On this
hasis, the annual breakdown between estimated Government exoenditures
and those covered bv the Bank will be as follows:



- 17 -
Bank
Total Expenditures  Gov. Expenditures   Participation
(US$ million)        (US$ million)      (US$ million)
1969               6.7                  6.7                -
1970              40.0                 23.8               16.2
1971              95.0                 56.9               38.1
1972              79.4                 47.6               31.8
1973              34.0                 20.1               13.9
Total      255.1                 155.1              100.0
E. Exeeution of the Project
4.20      Execution of the project will be the responsibility of the DNER
for national highways and of the corresponding DER for state highways. The
DNER will delegate authority to the DERs for three highways which belong to
the national as well as to a state highway network. Table 13 shows the
highway department responsible for each highway.
4.21      Prolect agreements between the Bank and states responsible for
construction of state highways or delegated national highways will be
signed not later than the loan agreement. In addition, subsidiary agree-
ments will be concluded between the federal government and DERs represent-
ing those states where a) construction of state or delegated national high-
ways is included in the project, and b) feasibility studies or detailed
engineering are to be conducted on state or delegated national highways.
Satisfactory conclusion of these subsidiary agreements will be a condition
for loan effectiveness.    i
4.22      Contracts for the project works will be let on the basis of in-
ternational competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's established
bidding procedures. The consultants have assisted the Government in the
preparation of prequalification, bidding and contracting documents which
are in agreement with the Bank's guidelines. They will also assist the
Government in the analysis of bids and be responsible for the supervision
of construction. The Government is proceeding with the prequalification
of interested bidders.
4.23      The project includes the construction and paving of a 900 km
continuous stretch of BR 101 in the states of Bahia and Espirito Santo.
To take advantage of economies of scale through the use of larger con-
tractors, DNER has agreed to combine construction lots in packages and
give bidders a choice to bid on packages or single lots. The values of
these packages range from about US$8 to 14 million.



- 18 -
4.24      In connection with the First Highway Project, legislation has
been made effective regarding (a) the duty free import of construction
equipment for the contractual period of construction, (b) price escala-
tion formula and (c) bidding and contracting documents. No further action
in these respects is required.
4.25      The Government is proceeding with the acquisition of right of
way and construction contracts will not be awarded prior to legal expro-
priation. This was confirmed during loan negotiations.
F. Disbursement
4.26      The disbursement procedures adopted by the Bank for construction
and paving works under the First Highway Project will apply to this pro-
ject. Disbursements will be made on the basis of unit costs, expressed in
dollars at the official exchange rate applicable at the date of bid open-
ing. Contractors will be paid in Cruzeiros and the Government will from
time to time request the Bank to reimburse the agreed percentage of ex-
penditures, arrived at by the conversion of physical units of work into
dollars at the appropriate dollar unit prices.
4.27      Brazilian consultants will be paid in Cruzeiros by DNER, and the
Government will from time to time request the Bank to reimburse the agreed
percentage of expenditures actually incurred.
4.28      Foreign consultants and experts will be paid by DNER in Cruzeiros
in accordance with contractual schedules. The Government will from time to
time request the Bank to reimburse the foreign exchange component expressed
as a percentage of expenditures actually incurred as shown in paragraph 4.18.
4.29      The loan will be to the Federal Government.  DNER will administer
a revolving fund for payments to contractors and consultants. The Federal
Government will finance the cost of construction and consulting services
on national and state highways included in the project and the states will
reimburse such amounts as are expended on the state highways. The revolv-
ing fund will be replenished with the Bank's reimbursement for paymeents
made and with the Federal and state Governments' contributions. During
loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that DNER will make deposits
in the revolving fund as required so that at the beginning of each calen-
dar month the amount of the revolving fund will be at a level sufficient
to cover one month of forward project cost, in accordance with work sched-
ules. A revolving fund with an initial deposit by DNER of US$ 2.5 million
equivalent in a blocked account at a suitable Brazilian bank was agreed
with the Brazilian authorities; its establishment will be a condition for
loan effectiveness.
4.30      Legislation regarding payment of foreign experts and repatriation
of profits and overheads of contractors and consulting firms has changed
repeatedly in recent years. To remove ambiguities the current legislation
has been reviewed and the Government has submitted a legal opinion which
confirms that:



- 19 -
(a) Levies on contractors' profits -- including retention for
remittances abroad -- would correspond to about 50% of
profits. Retention on profit remittances would have the
effect of slightly favoring local bidders by about 2-1/2%
of total bid price; and
(b) A flat 25% retention is applied to remittances abroad by
consulting firms in lieu of income tax.
The 50% tax rate on contractors' profits is in line with corporate tax
rates in most developed countries. Neither this rate of taxation nor the
slight favor that the rate gives to local bidders should deter participa-
tion of foreign bidders.
4.31      Any surplus of funds remaining in the loan account on completion
of the project should be cancelled.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction
5.01      With the opening of vast areas in the interior and the begin-
ning of their economic development, demand has greatly increased for high-
way transport to connect them to port and large urban areas on the coast.
At the same time, rising trade among cities located in the more developed
eastern states has meant large increases in highway transport volumes in
these areas, and resulted in pressure to improve and extend the present
road system.
5.02      To permit rational choice among investment alternatives, High-
way Master Plans were prepared under the Transport Survey (see Chapter 2)
on the following bases:
(a) Study of present traffic volumes flowing between the
country's major zones conducted on the basis of an
analysis of present production and consumption patterns,
traffic counts and origin-destination surveys;
(b) Forecasts of traffic growth to 1976 based on projected
production and consumption patterns and extrapolation of
past trends for passenger traffic;
(c) Allocation of the various classes of traffic to that
mode offering lowest total transport cost, taking into
consideration expected operational improvements in railway
transport and coastal shipping;
(d) Calculation of estimated costs of highway improvements and
new construction needed to accommodate projected traffic;



- 20 -
(e) Evaluation of economic benefits to be derived from proposed
investments through lower vehicle operating costs and high-
way maintenance costs; and
(f) Calculation of benefit/cost ratios, determination of optimum
years of opening and listing of investment priorities.
5.03      The roads included in the proposed project for construction
were selected among higher priority roads in the Master Plans. The con-
sultants responsible for detailed engineering for these roads studied
alternative alignments wherever warranted, and final alignment selections
were based on economic criteria. Preparatory studies on the roads pro-
posed for detailed engineering under the project were selected from the
Master Plan and feasibility studies carried out by consultants employed
by DNER (Table 14), and those for feasibility studies directly from the
Master Plans priority listing.
B. The ProJect Roads
5.04      Regional descriptions and the characteristics of the most im-
portant project roads follow:
In the Northeast Region*
2
5.05      The Northeast region extends over 1.5 million km  or a little
over 18% of the national territory. The region's population is estimated
at 26.1 million or over 29X of Brazil's total. This is one of the poorest
regions in Brazil. Its population is engaged mainly in agricultural ac-
tivities under generally difficult conditions, including poor quality
soils and scarcity of water. In recognition of these difficulties, a
regional development agency (Superintendencia do desenvolvimento do
Nordeste - SUDENE) was created in 1959 to promote growth in the produc-
tive sectors of the regional economy. SUDENE administers both federal
budgetary appropriations for infrastructure investments and fiscal in-
centives for industrial development. The main agricultural products in
the region are sugar cane (23.2 million tons in 1966), manioc (7.4 mil-
lion tons), timber (41.0 million m3). Cattle and pig raising is also
important with herds numbering respectively 17.5 and 15 million head.
The State of Bahia is the country's main producer of cacao, 96% of the
national total, and contributes an important share of its production of
tobacco. In recent years, largely as a result of SUDENE's activities,
but also through efforts by other Government agencies (e.g. Banco
Nacional do Nordeste - BNB), industrial production has expanded rapidly
*    The Northeast Region includes the following states:  Maranhao, Piaui,
Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Sergipe, Alagoas and
Bahia.



- 21 -
in the region, particularly in the state of Bahia. An important indus-
trial park is being constructed in Aratu -- north of Salvador, the capi-
tal of Bahia -- which will include processing industries and steel plants.
Present industrial production in the region concentrates on metallurgical
and cheiwical products, textiles and processed foodstuffs.
5.06      Under the proposed project about 1,065/Km of highways located
in the Northeast revion are proposed for construction. In addition de-
tailed engineering would be prepared for 612 km and 960 km would be
studied for feasibility. The two most important projects proposed for
construction are BR 101 and BR 324. Highway BR 101 is a main north south
trunk road extending over 4,000 km along the coast and linking the coun-
try's main urban centers. The section included in the project totals
1,012 km of which close to 75% is located in the Northeast region. The
balance is situated in the Center-East region. Project works on this
road would complete the paved connection between Salvador and Rio de
Janeiro. Highway BR 324 is the only entrance to Salvador and carries
heavy traf4fic, particularly close to the city (1968 ADT 6,300 with about
50% trucks). Design calls here for a four-lane divided highway with
limited access. A preliminary study is underway which will delimit the
Salvador Metropolitan Area on the basis of economic and social factors, and
will recommend an administrative structure and a scope of work for future
urban planning studies. The preliminary study is due for completion in
late 1969 and the comprehensive planning studies will extend over several
years. Heavy congestion and high rate of accidents characterize the pres-
ent two-lane highway (BR 324). Construction, therefore, cannot await com-
pletion of Metropolitan Plans.
5.07      The proposed project also provides for detailed engineering
studies on the 306 Km continuous highway extending north of the port of
Maceio in the direction of Campinha Grande and Natal (BR 104). This high-
way serves the center of the Northeast region and will become one of its
major outlets for the flow of goods to industrial zones in the south.
Other highways included in the project are listed in Tables 13-15 and more
detailed descriptions are given in Annex L.
In the Center-East Region*
5.08      This region has an area of 0.7 million Km 2, only about 1.2% of
the country's total, but it contains a population of 21.5 million or 24%
of the national total. The resource endowment is generally favorable
and main activities are in agriculture, industry and mining. The prin-
cipal crops include sugar cane (15.7 million tons in 1966), rice (0.9
million tons), corn (2.0 million tons), beans (0.3 million tons), coffee
*    UJnder Brazilian administrative definition this region includes the
states of Esnirito Santo, Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais. For the
purposes of this description the state of Guanabara, which is located
in the center of this region, has also been included.



- 22 -
(0.6 million tons), and citrus fruits (2.5 million tons). Timber exploitation
(28.7 million m3), cattle and pig raising (24% of the country's total
herd) supplement agriculture activities. In the industrial sector the
region's most important products are steel and chemicals, electrical ap-
pliances, processed foodstuffs and textiles. Mining is centered on Belo
Horizonte, the capital of Minas Gerais, where 23 million tons of iron
ore are extracted annually and about half of the country's steel is pro-
duced.
5.09      The list of project roads in this region is shown in Tables 13-
15 and more detailed descriptions are included in the Annex E. Proposed
project roads are all of regional interest. The most important among
these roads is the Rio de Janeiro - Juiz de Fora section (BR 135) which
is proposed for feasibility study, and is one of the most travelled routes
in the region (ADT of up to 25,000 close to Rio de Janeiro). The combina-
tion of poor alignment and high traffic volumes results in heavy traffic
congestion and a new alignment to appropriate standards is urgently re-
quired.
In the Center-West Region*
2
5.10      The total area of this region is about 1.9 million km , 22% of
the national territory. Population is estimated at about 4 million, a
little over 4.5% of the total for Brazil, and average density is only 2
persons per Km2.  This is one of Brazil's most recently settled regions
and a large number of new towns are developing rapidly along the routes
recently opened in virgin territory. The climatic and soil conditions
are favorable for high yielding agricultural activities and cattle rais-
ing. The region's main products are rice (1.3 million tons in 1966),
sugar cane (1.8 million tons) and manioc (1.8 million tons). Timber pro-
duction amounted to 9.2 million m3 in 1966. Cattle total 20 million head.
Most of the region's agricultural production is exported to the industrial
states, particularly Sao Paulo.
5.11      Under the proposed project detailed engineering studies would
be conducted on the 254 km most southern section of highway BR 153 -- the
Belem-Brasilia highway. Spectacular development has been triggered by
the construction of this highway to gravel standards and the resulting
heavy traffic on the southern section makes improvement and paving neces-
sary. A 1,400 km program of feasibility studies is envisaged which would
cover the region's main trunk roads. Other project roads in this region
are described in Tables 13-15 and Annex E.
In the Far-South Region**
5.12      The Far-South region has a total area of 0.6 million km  (about
7% of the national territory) and a population of roughly 16.5 million
*    This region includes the States of Mato Grosso and Goias.
**   This region includes the States of Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio
Grande do Sul.



- 23 -
2
(18.5% of the national total), averaging 29 persons per km    In the south-
ern region, agriculture and cattle raising are important economic activi-
ties as well as lumbering and wood processing. In the State of Parana
timber production (15 million m3 in 1966) accounts for about 12% of Brazil's
total, and wood processing is the main industry in the State. Agricultural
production in 1966 included sugar cane (3.1 million tons), coffee (1.2 mil-
lion tons), rice (0.5 million tons), corn (2.0 million tons) and manioc (1.6
million tons). In addition, 6% of the country's cattle is raised in Parana.
In the State of Santa Catarina, agriculture accounts for half of the state's
income, with the most important products beinRg pine and tobacco, which re-
present 40% and 32% of national production respectively. Other important
products are citrus fruits (0.5 million in 1966), and manioc (2.4 million
tons). In the State of Rio Grande do Sul, agriculture contributes about 40%
of the state income and employs more than 50% of the active population. The
most important products in 1966 were tobacco (37% of national production),
corn (2.3 million tons) used primarily for animal consumption, as well as
wheat (0.5 million tons), rice (1.2 million tons), beans (0.2 million tons),
oranges (O08 million), manioc (3.2 million tons), grapes for wine (66% of
national production) and timber (14 million m3). The State also raises 12%
of the country's cattle. A part of the agricultural production of the South-
ern Region is consumed in the state capitals of Porto Alegre, Florinapolis
and Curitiba, and the surplus is exported north to Sao Paulo and Rio de
Janeiro.
5.13      Project roads in the southern states are mostly of regional im-
portance and carrying heavy traffic - ADT up to 1,300 vehicles. They are
described in Tables 13-15 and Annex E.
C. Benefits from the Project
5.14      Most of the quantifiable benefits attributable to the project
roads are in the form of road user savings derived from a lowering of
vehicle operating costs. These savings stem from the difference in op-
erating costs on present gravel or earth roads, and on the projected paved
roads, as well as from distance reduction for both normal and diverted
traffic. Estimates of these benefits were made during the preparation of
Highway Master Plans, and were updated by DNER to reflect present condi-
tions in Brazil (Table 17). They were based on theoretical computations
checked against trucking companies' records, and test runs over different
types of roads for typical Brazilian vehicles. In the case of Route BR-324,
which has urban characteristics, benefits were derived primarily from re-
duction in congestion resulting in lower vehicle operating costs, as well
as time savings reflected in the wages of drivers of commercial vehicles
and travellers on business trips.
5.15      Additional benefits would be derived from the difference in
maintenance costs of well constructed paved roads, and existing gravel
or dirt roads. While fixed maintenance costs of paved roads are higher
than corresponding costs for gravel or dirt roads, variable costs increase
faster with rising volumes of traffic for gravel and dirt roads than for
paved roads.



- 24 -
5.16      In addition to the quantifiable benefits of the project, a num-
ber of benefits that are difficult to quantify can also be attributed to
the proposed road improvements. The paving of the project roads will lead
to reduced travel time and increased comfort, which in turn will lead to
faster turnover of capital, to lowering of inventory costs and to less
spoilage of fresh fruits and vegetables and less loss of poultry, pigs and
cattle during transport. In addition, the improved roads will facilitate
migration from the densely populated areas along the coast, to the newly
opened territories of the interior, which have large development potential
but lack adequate human resources.
5.17      For the project roads proposed for construction and/or paving
the estimated net benefits, discounted over a 20 year economic life of
the roads, give internal rates of return ranging from 17 to 47% (Table
19). The sensitivity of internal rates of return to variations in con-
struction costs, vehicle operating costs and maintenance costs was tested
(Table 19). Under the most pessimistic assumptions, rates of return would
range from 12 to 38%. The roads proposed for detailed engineering, and
those for feasibility study within the project, have been selected from
the Master Plans which have been closely examined by the Bank. At this
stage of evidence as to costs and benefits, each road can be expected
to have a rate of return in excess of 15%. The exact returns, which in
many cases can be expected to greatly exceed this figure, will be deter-
mined on the basis of the additional pre-investment work proposed under
the project. The roads are of priority and can be expected to lead to
acceptable projects for future Bank financing consideration. Their in-
clusion in this project is, therefore, fully warranted.
6. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Prior to loan negotiations the Government submitted to the Bank
a Plan of Action (PA-2) outlining the measures required to bring about
further improvements in the transport sector. This is a suitable basis
for proceeding with the proposed loan.
6.02      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Gov-
ernment on:
A - The following main points to be included in the Loan Agree-
ment:
(a) The implementation of DNER's reorganization (para.
3.06);
(b)  The delegation of maintenance functions (para. 3.09);
(c) The satisfactory maintenance of national roads (para.
3.21):



- 25 -
(d) The employment of consultants for supervising the con-
struction of project roads (para. 4.06);
(e) The employment of Brazilian and foreign transport
experts to reinforce DNER's planning department (para.
4.08); and
(f) The establishment of a group of Brazilian and foreign
construction engineers to improve DNER's construction
supervision (para. 4.09);
B -  The following main points to be included in Project Agreements:
(a) The reorganization of DERs (para. 3.08);
(b) The delegation of maintenance functions (para. 3.09);
and
(c) The maintenance of state roads (para. 3.21).
6.03      Conditions for loan effectiveness will be:
(a) The signing of consultants' contracts for the supervision
of Project works (para. 4.06);
(b) The establishment of a revolving fund in a blocked bank
account (para. 4.29); and
(c) The conclusion of subsidiary agreements between the
Federal Government and the DERs representing those states where
construction, feasibility studies, or detailed engineer-
ing studies are to be carried out under the project on
state and/or delegated national roads (para 4.21).
6.04      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of US$100
million equivalent. On the basis of the average economic life of road con-
struction works and length of construction period, the appropriate term
would be 25 years, including a four-year period of grace.
March 17, 1970






TABLE 1
BRAZIL
SECOND HIGHMAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Freight Transport by Mode of Transport, 1961-1968
(billions of net ton-km)
Railways               Coastal 2      gsAir
Year  Total  Total  Federal  State  /VRD'    Shipping-, Highways   Transport-
1961   74L.4  13.6    7.5       2.9    3.2       13.9        46.8         0.1
1062   82.7   14.4    7.7       2.8    3.9       16.2        52.0         0.1
1963   87.4   15.0    7.7       3.1    4.2       14.2        58.0         0.2
196h   95.0   16.0    8.2       2.8    5.0       14.3        6h.5         0.2
1965  108.0   18.2    8.8       3.2    6.2       14.0        71.6         0.2
1966  115.4   18.7    9.2       2.8    6.7       16.9        79.6         0.2
1967  132.8   19.4    9.0       2.7    7.7       18.9        93.9         0.2
1968  1h8.1   21.4   10.2       3.3    7.9       19.0      107.5          0.2
Percentage Shares
Year, Totl  RailwasI/   Coastal                     iHirhays             ira
1961   100    18.3                18.7                 62.9               0.1
1962   100    17.4                19.6                 62.9               0.1
1963   100    17.2                16.2                 66.8               0.2
196    1o00   16.8                15.1                 67.9               0.2
1965   100    17.5                13.5                 68.8               0.2
1966   100    16.5                13.5                 69.8               0.2
1967   100    18.6                1h.3                 70.9               0.2
1196h   100    14.4               12.8                 72.6               0.2
1/  ";.inas a Vitoria" railway, subsidiary of CVRD mining company.
2/   Excluding river traffic for which no statistics are available.
3/   Includes international services.  Donestic figures not available
separately.
Source:  GEIPOT.
DECE TEER  1969



BRAZIL
SIZOND HIGHWAY CDNSTRUCTION PROJECT
Passenger-Kilometers, Percentage Shares, and Average Annual
Growth Rates of Total and Selected Items, by Mode of Transport
195o-1961 - 1961-1965 - 1965-1968
Average Anmnal Growth Rate
PaasenRer-Kilometers (billions)                          Percent Shares                      (Dercit)
Mode of Transport & Item          9  1               196   1965          1967  19           1961           91968  1951                               68
Highways
Medium and long di stance
bus traffic             9.8  25.5  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  45.1  52.4  60.8  70.6  26.7  31.6  36.7  39.3  40.2  42.1    9.1               15.3      16.1
Automobile medium and
long distance traffic    3.9  13.0  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  21.2  23.4  25.8  28.4  10.6  16.1  17.3  17.6  17.1  17.0   11.6              13.0      10.1
Subtotal                 13.7  38.5  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  66.3  75.8  86.6  99.0  37.3  47.7  54.0  56.9  57.3  59.1    9.8               14.6      14.3
Local bus traffic         4.2  10.9  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  19.5  22.4  25.7  29.5  11.4  13.5  15.9  16.8  17.0  17.6    9.1               1,5.6     14.9
Automobile local traffic    3.2  10.1  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  16.5  18.2  20.0  22.0   8.7  12.5  13.4  13.7  13.2  13.1   11.0             13.1      10.0
Subtotal                  7.4  21.0  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  36.0  40.6  45.7  51.5  20.1  26.0  29.3  30.5  30.2  30.7    9.9               14.4      12.8
Total                    21.1  59.5  n.a.  n.a.  n.a. 102.3  116.4  132.3  150.5  57.5  73.7  83.3  87.4  87.5  89.8    9.9            14.5      13.9
Railways
Interior traffic          5.7   7.4   7.9   8.2   8.1   8.2   6.4   7.7   5.8  15.5   9.2   6.7   4.8   5.1   3.5    2.4                2.6    -10.9
Commiter traffic          7.9  10.6  11.4  10.9  10.3   9.4   7.2   7.7   7.6  21.5  13.2   7.6   5.4   5.1   4.5    2.7               -3.0     - 6.9
Total                    13.6  18.0  19.3  19.1  18.4  17.6  13.6  15.4  13.4  37.0  22.4  14.3  10.2  10.2   8.0    2.6                -0.6    - 8.7
Coastal Shipping          0.5   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.3   0.3  n.a.   1.4   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.2  n.a.   -4.5                7.5      n.a.
Airwaysa)                 1.5   2.8   3.1   3.0   2.6   2.6   3.0   3.2   3.7   4.1   3.5   2.1   2.2   2.1   2.2    5.8               -1.8      12.5
Total                    36.7  80.6    -       -     -  122.9 133.3  151.2 167.6 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0  100.0    7.4           11.1      11.0
n.a. = not available
a) Includes intemational travel since figires ior domestic travel are not available seprately.
Source: Brazil Transport Survey, Draft Volume II.
OEIPOT.
DXEMBER 1969



Table 3
BRAZIL
SECOND HIGHMAY CONISTRUCTION PROJECTS
Federal Investment in Transport by Modes
(NCr July 1969,    ions)
1965      1966      1967       1968      1969 /1
RAILWAYS
Equipment              361        258       203       127        259
New Lines              112        181       113        98         35
Sub total              473        439       316       225        294
HIGIaYS
Construction/paving    565        676       871      1014        998
MARITIME
Ships                  122        236       21h       232        614
Ports                  241         87        95       124        150
Sub total              363        323       309       356        764
AIRPORTS
Construction/Equipment  60         65        79        81         89
TOTAL                 1461       1503      1575      1676       2145
,/1 Estimated
Source! GEIPOT and IBRD-WH 195
DECE,BER  1969



TAuL
SECOND HIGHWAI CONSPRUCTION PROJECT
Cluaification of Hiahwavs
Lwnrttha Accordioh to TVDe of Jurisdiction. December 1968
Total                  National Highways                     State Hihways                    Municipal Highways
Em KM _                                                               KM
STATE OR TERLRITORY                              Total      Ur4paved      Paved      Total      Unpaved       Paved/  Total        Unpaved      Pavedl"
tondonia                       1,114              807         807        00           61          61            00      216         246          00
Acre                             397              248         248         00          44          44            00      105          105         00
Armazonas                       1,455              45           27        18         539          399          140      871          850         21
Acrairm                          318              170         178        O0           00          00            00      14,0         10          00
para                          17,974              642         405        237       7,652       6,Y11           738    9,680        9,583         97
Anrapa                           952              469         469         00           0           0             0      583          175          8
FKarannao                     23,232            1,506       1,285        221         889         816            43   20,837       20,813         24
Pia;.i                        22,069            1,418       1,248        170       1,695        1,6d6            9   18,956       18,956          0
00                           1247,201          1,818       1,057       761        3,747       2,566          861   41,639       41,551          88
Ric Grands Sorer                9,494             862         546        316       2,455       2,329           126    6,177        6,177          0
Paraiba                       23,967              946         583       363        3,021       2,980            41   20,000      20,000           o
h<r,-arnboco                  17,292            2,059       1,405        654       2,233        1,846          387   13,000       13,000          0
Alagoas                       11,295              622         376        246       2,273       2,200            73    8,400       8,100           0
Fernando do Noronna                l,0              0           0          0          40          40             0        0            0
Sergipe                        4,852              322         123        199       1,281        1,271           10    3,249        3,219          0
ESahia                        63,621            3,667       2,618      1,049       6,055       4,813         1,212   53,599       53,88L         15
Minas Gerais                  132,433           5,193       1,458      4,035      16,608      14,268         2,340  110,332      110,156        176
r.spirito Santo               16,013              795         511       284        3,231       3,136            95   11,987      11,967           0
Rio de Janeir.                18,990            1,250         166     1,084        4,123       2,994         1,429   13,317      13,16C         157
Guanabaca                       1,101              95           0        95        1,006         443           563        0            C          C
Sac Paolo                    166,615            2,533         118      2,385      14,082       5,024         9,058  150,000     147,000        3001
Parana                        83,827            2,537         822     1,715        7,844       6,9;1           933   73,146      73,396          50
Santa Catarina                31,835            1,348         841       507        5,443       5,243           200   25,014      25,041           0
Rio Grande do Sul            170,927            3,066       1,738     1,328        9,602       8,889           713   58,259     158,156         103
.:ato Grosso                  31,512            4,140       3,914        226       8,860       8,831            29   18,512      18,5G0          12
Gojas                         34,047            3,355       2,738        617      10,692      10,438           254   20,000       20,000          0
Federal District, Brasilia       691              254          98t       16          397         397             -        0     0                 0
933,238          40,475       23,809    16,666     114,173       94,899       19,274  778,577      774,828      3,751
Source: Na.ional Highwa; Department,
5/ As o: December, 1967.
DECEI i3ER 1969



BRAZIL
SeEOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Relations Amonir Area, Population. and Length of Highwans. 1963
Area in           Population        Surfaced Highways          Total Highways        Km Surfaced            Kn Total       2         Km Paved                      Km Total
'000 So.Km.       in '000             in Km  1/                 in Km   1/          Highwav/l.OOOmK         Highway/lOOOkm          Highway/l000 Inhab,           Highway/l000 Inhab.
Rondonia                         243               114                                                868                   -                     3.6                                                    7.6
Acre                             153               202                                                292                   -                     1.9                       -                            1.4
Amazonas                       1,564               903                    158                         584                   0.1                   o.4                       0.2                          o.6
Rioraima                         230                41                    -                           178                   -                     o.8                       -                            4.3
Para                           1,248             1,929                    975                       8,294                   0.8                   6.6                       0.5                          4.3
A-papa                            140              106                    -                           469                   -                     3.4                       -                            4.4
Maranhao                         329             3,461                    264                       2,395                   o.8                   7.3                       0.08                         0.7
Piaui                            251             1,414                    179                       3,113                   0.7                  12.4                       0.1                          2.2
Ceara                            148             3,838                  1,642                      5,565                   11.1                  37.6                       0.4                          1.4
Rio Grande DD Norte               53             1,291                    442                       3,317                   8.3                  62.6                       0.3                          2.6
Paraiba                           56             2,253                    404                       3,967                   7.2                  70.8                       0.2                          1.8
Pernambuco                        96             4,731                  1,041                       4,292                  10.8                  44.7                       0.2                          0.9
Alagoas                            28            1,400                     319                      2,895                  11.4                  103.4                      0.2                          2.1
Sergipe                           22               851                    209                       1,603                   9.5                  72.9                       0.2                          1.9
Bahia                            561             6,915                  2,261                       9,722                   4.0                  17.3                       0.3                          1.4
Minas Gerais                     587            11,48n                  6,375                      22,101                  10.9                  37.7                       0.6                          1.9
Espirito Santo                    46             1,491                    379                      4,026                    8.2                  87.5                       0.3                          2.7
Rio De Janeiro                    43             4,506                  2,513                       5,681                  58.4                 132.1                       0.6                          1.3
Guanabara                           1            4,132                    658                       1,101                 658.0                1,101.1                      0.2                           0.3
Sao Paulo                        248            16,624                 11,443                      16,615                  46.1                  67.0                       0.7                          1.0
Parana                           200             7,217                  2,648                      10,381                  13.2                  51.9                       0.4                          1.4
Santa Catarina                    96             2,706                    707                       6,791                   7.4                   70.7                      0.3                           2.5
Rio Grande Do Sul                282             6,561                  2,041                      12,678                   7.2                  45.o                       0.3                           1.9
Mats Grosso                    1,232             1,364                     255                     13,000                   0.2                   10.6                      0.2                           9.5
Goias                            642             2,718                    871                      14,047                   1.4                   21.9                      0.3                           5.2
Distrito Federal (Brasilia)        6               390                     156                        651                  26.0                  108.5                      o.4                           1.7
TOTAL                          8,505            88,638                  35,945                    154,626                   4.2                   18.2                       0.4                          1.7
I/  Bccluding Municipal Highways
Source: DNER
DECEMBER 1969



TABLE 6
BRAZIL
SESCOND HIGHWAY OONJTR[JCIION PROJECT
Relations Among Area. PonulatiOn. and NIhber of Vehicles, 1967
Area in '000             Population             Total                 Vehicle/               Vehicle/
STAIS                           SQ. Km                   in '                  Vehicles            1000 Sg.Kmr               IW Inhab,
Rondoriia                     243                     107                     n.a.                      -
Acre                          153                      196                     n.a.                     -
Amazonas                    1,564                     875                     n.a.                      -
Roraima                       230                       40                    n.a.                      -
Para                       1,248                    1,872                   13,624                  10.9                      7.3
Ampapa                        140                      100                    n.a. -.
MIarannao                     329                   3,314                     n.a.
Piau!                         251                   1,391                     n.a.                     -
Ceara                         148                   3,764                  33,010                  223.0                     8.8
Hio Grande do Norte           53                     1,271                    n.a.                      -
Paraiba                        56                    2,219                 18,396                 328.5                      8.3
P-ernambuco                    96                   4,645                  55,732                 560.5                      12.0
Alagoas                        28                    1,381                    n.a.                      -
Sergipe                        22                     838                     n.a.                      -
Bahia                        561                    6,778                  64,325                 114.7                      9.5
Minas Gerais                  587                  11,230                 214,925                 366.1                      19.1
cspirito Santo                46                    1,446                  24,925                 541.8                     17.2
Rio de Janeiro                 43                   4,340                 102,316               2,379.4                      23.6
Guanabara                       1                   4,007                 249,860             249,860.0                     62.4
Sao Paulo                    208                   16,081               1,028,764               4,148.2                     66.o
Parawia                       200                   6,763                 144,207                 721.0                     21.4
Santa Catarina                 96                    2,624                 72,590                 756.1                     27.7
Hic Grande dc Sul             282                   6,397                 228,321                 809.6                     35.7
}'tato Grosso               1,232                    1,293                 27,030                  21.9                     20.9
Go i as                      642                    2,592                  39,826                  62.0                     15.4
Distrito Federal                6                     358                  22,277               3,712.8                     62.2
1,Brasilia)
Total Vehicles Where No
Detail is Available                                                  56,460
TOTAL                      8,505                  85,902                2,396,588                 281.8                     27.9
Source: DNER
DECE21BER 1969



TABLE 7
BRAZIL
SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Vehicle Registrations, By State, 1967
State          Cars       Buses     Trucks      Total        % Distribution
Ceara           26,261       760      5,989       33,010        1.4
Pernambuco      43,964    1,710      10,058       55,732        2.3
Bahia           50,191    1,667      12,467       64,325        2.7
Minas Gerais   166,073    5,005       43,847     214,925        9.0
Rio de Janeiro  72,599    4,654      25,063      102,316        4.3
Sao Paulo      849,626   13,733    165,405   1,028,764         42.9
Parana         101,657    2,054      40,496      144,207        6.o
Santa Catarina  52,345    1,162      19,083       72,590        3.0
Rio Grande
do Sul       185,311    4,278      38,732      228,321        9.5
Guanabara      213,406   12,129      24,325      249,860       10.4
Espirito Santo  17,649       724      6,552       24,925        1.0
Goias           31,387       676       7,763      39,826        1.7
Mato Grosso     19,861       587       6,582      27,030        1.1
Paraiba         14,183       425      3,788       18,396        0.8
Para            10,699        26       2,899      13,624        0.6
Federal District,
Brasilia      19,598       564      2,115       22,277       0.9
Other States
and Territcries 39,763    3,100    13,597        56,460        2.4
National Total 1,914,573 53,254   428,761    2,396,588        100.0
Source: Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics
DECEMBER 1969



TABLE 0
BRAZIL
SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet, 1967
in '000
Cars                                        1,761.4
Pickups                                       153.2
Subtotal                                    1,914.6
Buses:
Gasoline                                     22.7
Diesel                                       30.5
Subtotal                                       53.2
Trucks:
2-4 tons gasoline                            94.6
5-9 tons gasoline                           222.8
5-9 tons diesel                               4.3
10-14 tons gasoline                           4.2
10-14 tons diesel                            75.1
15-17 tons diesel                            21.4
18 tons and over diesel
(tractors/semi-trailers)                 6.4
Subtotal                                      428.8
TOTAL                                       2,396.6
Source: GEIPOT
DECEMBER 1969



TABLE 9
ERAZIL
SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
HIGHWAY DESIGN STANDARDS FOR NEW ROADS
Class of Highway
0        I        II      III
Design L3peed,         flat            120      100       80      60
km/h                 rolling         100       80       60      40
mountainous      80       60       40      30
Midnimium Horizontal    flat           570      380      230     130
Radius, m            rolling         380      230      130      50
mountainous    230       130       50      30
TMaximum Grade, %      flat              3         3       3        4
rolling          h       4.5        5       6
mountainous       5        6        7       8
Sight Distance for    flat             210      150      110      75
Stopping, m          rolling        150       110       75      50
mountainous    110        75       50       -
Sl-ht Distance for    flat             730     650       500     350
Passing, m           rolling         650     500       350     175
mountainous    500      350       175       -
Pavement Width, m      flat           7.50    7.20      7.00    7.00
rolling       7.50    7.20       to       to
mountainous   7.50    7.20       6.50    6.oo
Shoulder 'idth, m      flat           3.50    3.00      2.50    2.00
rolling       3.00      to       to       to
mountainous   2.50    2.50       2.00    1.20
very -
mountainous  1.00    1.00       1.00    0.80
Rlght-of-Way, m        flat            -        60        30      30
rolling        -         70       0      40
mountainous    -         80        50      50
Source: DNER
DECEMBER 1969



TABLE 10
BRAZIL
SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTIUCTION PROJECT
HIG'HWMAY DESIGN STANDAXDS FOH IMPROVEMEDNT OF EXISTINIG ROADS
Class of Highway
0       I       II     III
Design Speed,        flat                100     100      80     60
rolling              80      80      60     40
mountainous          60      60      h0     30
Kinimum Horizontal  flat                 430      340    200    110
iadius, Tr         rolling             280     200    110      50
mountainous         160     110      50     30
Piaximum Grade, dO   flat                  3       3       3      h
rolling                     4.5       5      6
mountainous           5     6.0       7      8
Sight, Distance for  flat                150     150    100      75
StopiLng, m        rolling             100     100      75     50
mountainous          75      75      50      -
Sight Distance for  flat                 650     650    500    350
Passing, m         rolling             500     500    350    175
mountainous         350     350    175       -
Pavement Width, m   flat                 7.50    7.00   7.00   7.00
rolling             7.50    7.00      to     to
mountainous         7.50    7.00   6.oo   6.oo
Shoulder Width, m   flat                 3.00    2.50   2.00   1.50
rolling             2.50    2.00   1.50   1.20
mountainous         2.00    1.50   1.20   1.00
very mountainous   1.50    l.oo   1.oo   o.80
Hight-of-Way, m      flat                 -        60      30     30
rolling              -        70      ho     ho
mountainous          -        80      50     50
Source: DNEr?.
DECEMBER 1969



TABLE 11
BRAZIL
SECOND HIGNilU CONSTRUCTION PRIOJECT
Forecasts of Annual Invest7wnt E rL ditures for High Priority Road Construction and/or Paving Works
(NCr Millions)
Region              State                                          197W)                1971                 1972                 1973
Northeast
Maranhao                                     121.1                 66.3                 84.2                 51 .3
Piaui                                         34.0                 Ij5.4&               51.8                113.5
Ceara                                         64I.7               113.2                117.0                 89.1k
Rio Grande do Norte                           57.1                 55.9                 50.5                 50.1
Paraiba                                       72.6                 75.9                 79.4g                914.3
Pernambuco                                   287.8                110.5                101. L                93.5
Alagoas                                       70.1                L4. lI                50.5                 5h.o
Sergipe                                       68.6                14.5                  42.6                 20.8
Bahia                                        599.0               1481.8                4t68.1               213.7
'enter-East
YMinas Gerais                                259.0                284.2                301.3                267.9
Espirito Santo                                77.1                119.3                 38.7                 22.0
Rio de Janeiro                               160.L                1 ,9.8                67.1                 30.0
tenter-Soluth(l
Sao Paulo                                    L29.5                4(7.L                50P.5                553.8
Center -West
Mato Grosso                                   f1 .3                73.6                 88.3               106.3
Goias                                         42.5                 71.2                 94.1                199.6
Far South
Parana                                       h35.2                535.7                5147.1              4l68.4
Santa Catarina                               171.2                2114.n               232.5                195.5
Rio Grande do Sul                            237.6                296.n                2Q8.3                273.1
Sub Total                   3,217.3              3,250.1             3,221.7              2,897.2
Other States (1 )                            227.3                227.5                225.5                202.8
Total                       3,1s75.1             3,177.6             3,[Ui7.2             3,100.0
(1) Investme-it exnedtiture forecasts are based on the Transoort Survey recrcrended
invest-sent programs.  The states and territcries not c-vered by the Siuvey
are:
Aiazcn Region - Rondonia, Acre, Amazonas, Roraina, Para, Asapa
Certer South  - Guanabara             .
Center West   - Federal District (Brasilia)
Investm-ent expeniitures in states not covered by the survey have been taken as
seven percent of the a-ounts for States studied.
SOtRCE:  Transoort Survey Phase I and II
DECEMIBER, 1969



TABLE 12
BRAZIL
SECOND HICIRWAT CONSTRUCTION PROJIGT
Tentative Pinanca na    fAm    Pegdarl And Stat. Hi,hwayu
(1970-1973)
NCr Millions
Revenues                                                 1970                1971                1972                 1 973               1970/1973
Road Fund (IUCL)                                     1,571               1,723               2,120               2,292                  7,706
Otaer Revenues (1)                                   1.199               1.275               1,351               1,427                  5,252
Total                  2,770               2,998               3,471               3,719                 12,958
Exnenditures
Invest'ents (2)                                      3,475               3,478               3,447               3,100                 13,500
Maintenance Equipe-mnt (States Covered                 132                  48                  4i                  74                     295
(by Transport
(Survey
(Other States                    9                   3                   3                   4                     19
Sub Total                  3,616               3,529               3,491               3,178                  13,814
'airitenanre and Administration (DNER and              736                 744                 763                 797                  3,040
(States covered
(by Transport
(Survey
(Other States        45                  47                   48                  50                    19n
Sub Total           781                791                 811                  847                  3,230
Total                  4,397               4,320               4,302               4,025                 17,044
sureius (Deficit)                                      (1,627)             (1,322)               (831)               (306)                 (4h,06)
1I.S.2 Equivalent (sillions)                             (397)               (322)               (203)                 (75)                  (997)
Average Annual deficits US$249 million (197C-1973)
(1) Proceeds of taxes earmarked for highway
use and budget appropriations
(2   See Table 11
t(,tliT   Trar-ssort Survey Phase I and II
DEC5BE'5, 196u



TABIE 13
BRAZIL
SEDOND HIGHWAY OICSTRUGTION PROJECT
List of Roade for Constrmtien mVd/or Pa.irm
(1)        (2)            (3)               (4)                 (5)           (6)               (7)           (3)
Type of Sur-
Peo-                                                                                        facing andS
lap' t       eto   d lacier       Soenrv    Road Section                            Fl ytpe R oflir4 s   Xountsi        iTerr  Clams of Road           Type of Work                       Total Cost (2)
'ed.  State                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~Flat %    oln      4otnous %                 Conit. and   I-o  and'    NC, cilli-c  jti  dimlon
(1)            Paving        Pacing
Cca,,.        BR 22?                BitR        Piripiri-Sobral                          -        15              85                LST-1                -             199.7            58.9          14.L
El 3?L                DNSR        Salvador-Feira de Sanstan  (I)          75       25                -                AC-C                32.5             -             46.7           11.4
B, iv         BR 321                 DIER        Salvador-Fair. de Santana (ItS         65         30               5                AC-I                 -              72.5           1ih.            3.5
B1hie         RB 101                 DN5R        Junction BR 32h - Rio Preto              -        95               5                AC-I                 -             183.5            56.6          13.3
w4-ia         BR 1,1                DNER        Rio Preto - Rio Pardo                    -        25               75               AC-I                 -             215.6            71..L          17.b
.4 Ia         B2 101                DNOR        Rio Pardo - Ita'eer.ju                  15        15               70               AC-I               201.4              -             97.2           23.7
Sr-ia          BY 1i1                DNER        Ttaia,oju-Pedro C.asrio                40        31               37                AC-I              16e.h              -              67.1          1f.!,
., irite
Seclc         3. 1'1                DNESR       Pedro Canario-Linharee                 20        50               30                AC-I                 -             131.6            39.3           Y.t
Ocociro        BR 101               DNSR         Rio Bonito-Facenda doe Quarantn        15        85                -               AC-I                 -              116.2            57.L          1L., 
0rai          B!R 135    MG 1       DSR/iE      Corinto-Bocaiuca                         -      100                -                DST-I                -             167.8            36.3            1.
SiBes
locate       :p, 37      lIG 5L    DEPt51       Itoitaba-Cnaal Sao Sitao               10        55               35               DST-I                -              114.5           19.1            L.7
locas        BR 3.L                DRSR        Lagoa For,osa-Jurntioo BR 262           33        33               34               DST-II             110.7              -             21.3
Ocia-          BR hS2                DNER        Itumbiara-Rio Verde                     50        50               -               DST-1               181.0             -              51.2          12.5
2aeacloo      20PR L17    251,3/'6    DRR/SC   Caccos NKoos-Jumntion RR 116            4a       35               25               AC-I                88.f              -             h3.7           1 ,7
-c pal       e.a 153              DNEF         Santa Maria-Julio de CastilhRo         Se        35               15               AC-C                  -              62.8            27.?           6.0
lie 3cc-sd'-
-,           2           Z3q/11  DIWRS          Cruotiro do SulMucu                     -                        S 50              AC-I       4        ,7.                             39.4            9.6
siT                 32'RS 3    DSR/RS      Porto  fainron.t-Sata eCrus do Sul       -        Br              2n                AC-I                50 1              -              40.2           9.8
Total       871.6         1,267.2            771.7         1'53.2
Graid Total       2.138.8
DST   frable Ssofaco Treatment
Z    A-hoalt C-creto
C     Zlaas 0 (soc Tabl- 9-10)
I      Ilos- I (ace T-bles 9-10)
II    laco  II (sec T2-Dea 9-10)
FEBRUARY, 1 970



BRAZIL
SECOND HIGIWAY CO TRUCTION PROJECT
List of Roads for Detailed 5legering
(1)         (2)            (3)            (W)             (5)             (6)              (7)                    (8)
yefWork,
Road Number                                                                    Exi itrF  ro,osed                                               Estimated Cost of                Preparatory Studiea/
State          Fadera!    -      State                Section                             Length      Condition=    St-sdrd.       Estisted Constroctiss Costs    Datailed Etinaaris!                 Consult ants
km                                     NCr Mlillioa    US$ Millions    NCR ISillions  1E$ 1i4lons
PB/PE          BR 104                                 C. Grande-Caruaru                    128        IE-IV          'ST-I              57.0              13.9             2.30            .56        FS-Astep
PE/AL          BR 104                                 Caruaru-U. Palar es                  118        IE-IV          DST-I              62.7              15.3             2.50           .61             5
AL              ER 104           AL 504               U. Palarsa - Junction BR 316          60        IE-IV          DST-I               29.1              7.1             1.15            .28
PI/PE           BR 316/232                            Picos-Parnamirim-Salgeiro            302        I-TV          DST-I               138.2             33.7             5.55           1.36        FS-Technoutal/fodio
BA             ER 324                                 Salvador: Northern Access              4          -           AC-C                 16.4             L4.               .65            .16        FS-Dorach
ES                               ES 37/36             Nova Venecia-Sao Domingos             69        IN-IT          AC-II               23.4              5.7              .95           .23         NP-Norconsult
RJ                               RJ 133               Pedro do rio-Junction BR 116          6o        IN-IV          AC-II               26.2              6.4             1.05            .26        I-borco_ult
RJ                               RJ 82                Posse-Dox Suceaso                     6o        WE-II          AC-II               19.3              4.7              .80            .19         W-lUorconalt
}1D            J  354                                 Jation aR 262-Ba'ui                   314       a-IIn          DST-I                8.6              2.1              .35            .O         FS-Pr-oeu./Lasa/Ktapa
IC             8R 354            IC 25                Foradga-Pordosa                       94        0-II          DST-I                18.9              4.6              .73           .18
I                                M171/168/28          S.Seb. Paraiso-Pocos de Caldas       188        Iz-TV         DST-I'II            61.1             14.9             2.115           .60         FSD-DR/Q
M              BR 267            MD 157               Pooos de Caldas-Parsagucu            101        TN-IT         DST-II               26.2              6.4             1.05            .26
oo             ER 153                                 Ceres-Poranguatu                     254        0-I            AC-I                75.8             18.5             3.00            .714        FS.drolsr_sm
GO             aR o60                                 Guapo-Jatai                          274        0-I/Il         AC-I                80.4             19.6             3.20            .78          -Paru      _    ./d.
an" Nelw/*s2an
IT             BR 163                                 Bandirantes-Campo GrarA.             71        O-I/lI         AC-I                20.5              5.0              .85            .20
PR                               PR 12                Corn. Proeop. - Congonhas             44        IE-III         AC-I                27.5              6.7             1.10            .27          1-KaEs
PR/SC/NS       ER 153                                 Ihio da Vitoria-Erachi               2141       N              AC-I               139.4             34.0             5.60           1.37         Pe-BMWoa
RS/SC           BR 386/158       RS 51/SC 102          Sr azdi-Irai-Cnhapora                163       Il-TV          AC-I                94.4             23.5             3.85            . 94k
aS                               RS 19                 Taquara-Spiraga                      25         -II           AC-I                11.9              2.9              .50            .12         W-E_ az
TOTAL       2,290                                          937.0            229.0            37.3            9.2
Column 2 and 3                                     Column 8
IM:    Improved Earth                              FS:   Feauibility Study
0:    Gravel
ME:    Non Existdrl                                NP:   Naster  Plan
DST:    Double Swrface Treatment
AC:    Asphalt Concrete
0:    Class 0    (See Tables 9 wnd 10)
I:    Class I    (See Tables 9 and 10)
II:    Class II   (See Tables 9 and 10)
III     Class III  (See Tables 9 and 10)
IV:   No Class
MRCH 1970



TABLE 15
DRAIL
SECOND HIGOW! CONSmRUCTnCN PROJECT
List of Roads for Feasibility Studies 1/
-()           (2)            (3)             (4)             (5)           (6)           (7)
Rood fittest                                           Length                                       Eatimated Costmeution          Estimated Cost of
Costs                Feasibility Studies
3otet                                     sotion                                Exsting         Imposed          N5r             029              Nur             u2$               smai
Federal    State                                            mn        Conditins       Stadawrds       Millions        Million         Million        Million
.B1 FE    B3111'/il?                 Faeich-aJuantion BR232          207         1E-II            DST-II           68.9            16.8          1.35         0.33
FA        BR030                      Ca-tite-Brumado                 103         IE-Il           AC-I              41.7            10.2          i.So         0.20
BA                   BA630           Brua-do-Vitoria da
Conqoista                       141         IE-IC           AC-II            52.3            12.8
Ft        8E 32                      Brumado-Junetion BR116          158           NE            AC-C            117.2             28.6       ) 2.45        ).60            Altec tni.ss. roads
EA                   BA026!1554.     Bted-aaosJsto                                                                                             
BRut1                           215           NE            AC-II            79.7            19.4
3.A       BR101                      FIesr ds Sontana-Esplanada    136         G/DS5-II          AC-C             55.8             13.6         1.05          o.25
F0                   1114            Border RA/ES-Eooporanga-
Batsr  de Sao Franoisco         165         IE-IV         AC/D3T-II          73.1            17.8         1.45          0.35
MfF3/GB   8R135                       0.00 As  o-Rio ds
Jansdei                         202         AC-I            AC-C            164.2           140.0         3.30          0.80
MG                   MGIl            Corinto-Pirapora                148         IE-III         DST-II            38.4              9.4         o.a0          0.20
MI'G'     itEt14                     Rondonopolis-Jatai-Canal
S.o Sin-o                       661       IE-IV/II      DST'AC-II/I         244.7            59.6        5so5           1.35
ffT       BP361/163                  C.iaba-Rondonoplis-Campo
Grands                          758        IE/G-III/t   D3I/AC-II/I         242.9            59.2          5.55          1.35
PR                   PR13            Masiega-sasts Isaoio             95          IE-III        AC-I               5o.4            12.3
PR                                   M -  .inga-Rolandia              59           NE           AC-O              94.3             23.0
_ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
PR           -         -             Noe Espesrano-Porto
Cears                            77        IE-II/III    AC-I/O               54.2            13.2       ) 4.75        ) 1.15          Alstati- toads
_                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)  )
Fi                  pFR7             Nova Esperanca-Rolandia          80           NE         AC-0               126.0             30.7
-Tres Passos-Fred.
ES                   RS54/48         Santa Roms Wrstphalen           156           NE         AC-I                 94.4            23.0      ) 2.5o        ) o.6o          Alts.tatioe toadE
-Campo Noso           90           NE         AC-I                54.6            13.3
ES                   Rs5a            Tres Passos-Canpo Novo-
I Jui                           128          IE-III      AC-I                83.0            20.2         1.65          0.40
(Junction
RS        BR158/377 RS51             J.de Castilhon-(BR285/158        317         IE-I/II    AC-I                 41.1            10.0
C. Alta-        (Junction                                                                               C
(BR285/377      118         IE-I/Il    AC-I                  41.1            10.0       ) 1.20        ) 0.30          Altnrnaotre roado
TOTA1                  3.814 1/                                    1,817.8 1'/       413.1 _/    32.40           7.88
Coluno 2 and 3:      IE:  Ispeosed Earth                  0: Class 0 (See Tables 9 and 1Q)                 S/ Seveeal feasibility stolies  included in this 1ost ce*n
o:  Gravel                          I:  Cleas I (See Tables S and to)                     alternatiec  lignmsnto.  Total length foe  -onst-ctino
NE: Non-Existing                    II:  Class II (See Tables 8 sdlO)                       ill therefore be less than that for feasibility studies
IT:  QDouble Surface Treatment    III:  Class III (See Tables 9 andl')                     and will be absot 3,1OC km (Estinated cost: US$320 millIon).
AC: Asphalt Concrete                IV: No Class
FEBRGRIR, 1970



BRAZIL
SECOND HIGH'AY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Average Daily Traffic on Project Roads!/
PRFSENT TRAFFIC (1968)                                                                 ESTIMATED TRAFFIC (1972)
Normal Traffic                                           Diverted Traffic
Total                                                   Total 
Road Section                                  Vehicles       Cars       Buses       Trucks             Vehicles       Total       Cars       Buses      Trucks       Total       Cars       Buses        Trucks
BR-222   Piripiri-Sobral                         246           47         12          187                 356           356         60         16         280
BR-324   Salvador-Feira de Santana
Section I  2/        6,323        2,675        638        3,010               9,488         >,488      4,086        928       4,474           _          _          _              _
Section II 27/       2,926        1,501        287        1,138               4,010         4,010      1,830        323       1,857           -          -          -              -
BR-101   Junction BR-324 Rio Preto                199           74        14          111               1,144           310        122         19         169          834        239         70            525
BR-101   Rio Preto-Rio Pardo                      212          136        12            64                889           340        225         17          98          549        137         48            364
BR-101   Rio Pardo-Itamaraju                     341           177          7         157               1,087           544        293         11         240           543       132         48            363
BR-101   Itamaraju-Pedro Canario                 280            58        14          208                 984           419         96         19         304          565        138         52            375
BR-101   Pedro Canario-Linhares                  515           159         14         342               1,398           799        288         18         493          599        164         50            385
BR-101   Rio Bonito-Fazenda dos Quarenta         248           108        13          127               1,155           407        196         18         193          748        203          75           470
BR-135   Corinto-Bocaiuva                         263          117         21          125                385           385        159         29         197            -          -          -             -
BR-365   Ituiutaba-Canal Sao Simao                158          91           7           60                553           219        128         10          81           334        193         16           125
BR-354   Lagoa Formosa-Junction BR-262            160           88        11           61                 325           22h4       124         16          84          101         21           3            77
BR-452   Itumbiara-Rio Verde                      334           71        18          245                 737           454         99         25         330          283        145           5           133
BR-470   Campos Novos-Junction BR-116            630           250        23          357               1,052         1,052        416         54         582           -          -          -              -
BR-158   Santa Maria-Julio de Castilhos           682          373        29          280                 967           967        534         37         396           _,
RS-38/11 Cruzeiro do Sul-Mucum                    842          375        42          425               1,189         1,189        549         61         579                 -          -                   -
RS-3     Porto Mariente-Santa do Sul              423          124        22          277                 612           583        184         33         366            29          9          2            18
1/ Traffic volumes shown in this table are averages over the whole road sections.
2/ Figures for 1967
SOURCE: DLER
DECEMBER, 1969
H'



BRAZIT
SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs
(NCr., June 1969, per Em, net of taxes)
SURFACED                                     GRAVEL                                        EARTH
FLAT        ROLLING    MOUNTAINOUS             FLAT      ROLLING    MOUNTAINOUS            FLAT       ROLLING    NOUNTADIOUS
Passenger Car                     A                     0.025         0.023       o.025                 0.025     0.025        0.025                0.025      0.025        0.028
(Volkswagen)                      B                     0.010         0.008       0.016                 0.016     0.016        0.014                0.028      0.028        0.028
C                     0.011        0.010        0.010                0.014      0.013       0.013                0.020       0.018        0.018
D                     0.045        0.050        o.o63                o.o60      c.o60       o.o65                0.098       0.095        0.118
T                     0.091        0.091        0.114                0.115      0.114       0.117                0.171       0.166        0.192
US  equivalent per KM                    2.28         2.28         2.60                 2.88       2.85         2.93                4.28        4.15         4.80
Bus                               A                      0.063        o.063        0.072                0.066      0.066       0.088                0.076       0.091       o.o95
(36 Passenger, Diesel)            B                     0.053         0.042       0.032                 0.084     0.084        0.074                0.189       0.189       0.189
C                     0.107        0.097        0.097                0.160      0.146       0.146                0.267       0.243        0.243
D                     0.296        0.329        0.444                o.362      0.378       0.510                o.576       0.592        0.773
E                     0.078        0.080        0.097                0.101      0.101       0.123                0.166       0.167        0.195
T                     0.597        0.611        0.742                0.773      0.775       0.941                1.274       1.282        1.495
US 0 equivalent per KM                   14.93         15.28       18.55                19.33      19.38        23.53               31.85       32.o5        37.38
Light Truck                       A                     0.047         0.055        0.074                o.066      0.069       0.077                0.077       0.083        0.088
(2.7 Tons, Gasoline)              B                     0.043         0.031       0.020                 o.o62     o.o62        0.054                0.140       0.1140      0.140
C                     0.041        0.037        0.037                o.o61      0.056        O.056               0.102       0.093        0.093
D                     0.172        0.202        0.303                0.242      0.283        0.354               0.333       0.374        0.424
E                     0.OL5        0.049        o.o65                o.o65      0.071       0.051               0o098        0.104        0.112
T                     O.348        0.374        0.499                0.496      0.541       0.622                0.750       0.794        0.857
US  equivalent per KM                    8.70          9.35       12.48                 12.40     13.53        15.55                18.75      19.85        21.43
Medium Truck                      A                      0.055        0.073        0.117                0.073      0.099       0.131                0.102       0.128        0.146
(7 ton, Diesel)                   B                     0.070         0.052       0.036                 0.104     0.104        0.104                0.234       0.234       0.234
C                     0.051        0.051        0.051                0.077      0.077        0.077               0.128       0.128        0.128
D                     O.166        0.207        0.300                0.277      0.269        0.331               0.279       0.331        0.393
E                     0.051        0.057        0.076                0.072      o.082       o.o96                0.1i1       0.123        0.135
T                     0.393        0.440        o.580                0.553      o.631        0.739               o.854       0.944        1.036
US 0 equivalent per KM                    9.83         11.00       14.50                13.83      15.78        18.48                21.35      23.60        25.90
Heavy Truck                       A                     0.073         0.097        0.155                0.097      0.131       0.175                0.136       0.170        0.194
(15 tons, Diesel)                 B                     0.146         0.108        0.076                0.216      0.216       0.216                o.486       o.486        o.486
C                     0.101        0.101        0.101                0.152      0.152        0.152                0.253      0.253        0.253
D                     0.263        0.329        0.477                0.362      0.428        0.526               0.444       0.526        o.625
E                     0.087        0.095        0.121                0.124      0.139        0.160               0.198       0.215        0.234
T                     0.670        0.730        0.930                0.951      1.066       1.229                1.517       1.650        1.792
US 0 equivalent per KM                   16.75         18.25       23.25                 23.78     26.65        30.73                37.93       41.25       44.80
Tractor Trailer                   A                     0.082         0.109        0.174                0.109      0.147       0.196                0.153       0.191        0.218
(20 tons, Diesel)                 B                     0.204         0.151        0.106                0.302      0.302       0.302                0.680       o.680        o4680
C                     0.124        0.124        0.124                0.186      0.186        0.186                0.310      0.310        0.310
D                     0.292        0.365        o.529                0.402      0.475        o.584                0.493      o.584        0.694
E                     0.105        0.112        0.140                0.150      0.167        0.190                0.245      0.265        0.285
T                     o.807        0.861        1.073                1.149      1.277        1.458                1.881      2.030        2.187
US 0 equivalent per KM                   20.18         21.53       26.83                 28.73     31.93        36.45                47.03       50.75        54.67
SOURCE: Brazil Transport Survey, Phase II. Guideline 014.                                    A: Fuel and Lubracants
INER                                                                                B: Tires
C: Maintenance and Repairs
D: Crew Wages, Insurance and Depreciation
E: Overhead
T: Total
DECEMBER 1969



TABLE 18
BRAZIL
SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Average Daily Traffic, (ADT)
Selected National Highways, 1968
1/
ADT
Highway - BR               State                    No.           Trucks %
060                     Minas Gerais               ,766            53.1
050                     Minas Gerais              1,669            48.7
060                     Goias                     2,313            36.6
Lai                     Paraiba                   1,763           51.5
101                     Sergipe                   3,102            38.6
101                     Espirito Santo            1,062            57.2
101                     Santa Catarina            2,010            32.0
101                     Rio Grande i: Sul         2,011            32.0
116                     Ceara                     1,538            58.7
116                     Bahia                     5,430            45.4
116                    lMfinas Gerais             2,262            67.3
116                     Santa Catarina            2,604            57.6
1.1I                    Rio Grande do Sul        12,505            25.1
135                     Minas Gerais              4,992            43.4
135                     Rio de Janeiro           19,307            30.1
153                     Goias                     1,889            52.5
222                     Ceara                     1,179            48.1
230                     Paraiba                   1,268           54.8
262                     Minas Gerais              1,517           46.9
324                     Bahia                     5,430           45.5
381                     Minas Gerais              4,457           48.6
Rio de Janeiro          16,930            36.2
61                      Rio Grande do Sul         1,246           43.3
1/ AJT at selected counting stations.
Source:  Anuario Estatistico de Transito nas Rodovias Federais, DNER, 1968,
National Department of Highwzays.
DECh.BEP. 1969



TABLE 19
UOWND IORWAI WONSTRUCTION PIOJECT
Internal Rates of Return for Roads Proposed for Construction and/or Paving
Assumption 1               Assumption 2               Assumption 3
Road Number                          Road Section                                   (Best Estimate)            (Upper Limit)              (Lower Limit)
Federal          Stat
Piaun      BR 222                                Piripiri-Sobral                                     21                         27                          15
Coaro
Bah-a      BR 324                                Salvador - Feira De Santana
Section I                                         44
Section II                                       32
BaoLR      BR 101                                Junction BR 324 - Rio Preto                         3c                         .6'                         24
Bahiao     BR 101                                Rio Preto - Rio Pardo                               22                         4                           1'
Batlia     BR 101                                Rio Pardo - Itanraju                                19                         25                          13
hnia      XBR 101                                Itamar-ju-Pedro Canario                             25                         32                          18
cSpirito
Santc   IR 101                                Pedro Canario-Linhares                              42                        50+                          -32
Rio d,
Janeiro   BR 101                                Rio Bonito-Fazenda dos Quaranta                     2C                         26                          14
Mwinae
uerals    BR 135            MG 1                Corinto-Bocaiuva                                    lo                         24                          12
llinac
Gerais    BR 365            MG 54               Ituitaba-Canal Sao Simao                            47                        50+                          38
linas
Gcrais   BR 354            KG 163              Lagoa Formosa-Junction BR 262                       23                        28                           ld
Go_as      BR 452                                Iturbiara-Rio Verde                                 37                         44                          30
Santa
Catarina  BR 170            SC43/68             Campos Novos-Junction BR 116                        35                        42                           28
Rio Grande
do Sul    BR 158                                Santa Maria-JulLo de Castilhos                      25                        31                           19
Rio Grando
do Sul                      RS38/11             Cruzeiro do Sul-Mlucum                              17                        22                           12
Rio Grando
do Sul                      RS 3                Porto Mariante-Santa Cruz do Sul                    18                        23                           13
3/   Undor Assumption 1  the interoal rates of return were calculated using the iuts as provided by the consultants and LNER.
/        Under Assumption 2  the internal  rates of return were calculated reflecting optimiatia eonditians, by lowering
constructiun costs 10%, increasing the unit benefits from vehicle operating costs on paved roads and the unit benefit from
maintenance of paved roads 10% each, and holding the other variables constant.
3/   Under Assumption 3  the internal rates of return were calculated reflecting the met pessimistic conditions, by increasing
construction costs 10%, decreasing the unit benefits from vehicle operating costs on paved roads and the unit benefit from
maintenance of paved roads 10% each, and holding the other variables constant.
MARCR 1070






BRAZIL: SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE NATIONAL HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT (DNER)
D I R E C T O R   G E N E R A L|
|TECHNICAL AND ECONOMIC ADIOS||                                           ADMINISTRATIVE COUNC~IL~
AUDITING COMMITTEE                                              |     OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR 
|   SECURITY COMMITTEE   l                           |  SECRETARIAT | |PUBLIC RELATIONS| |REPRESENTATION 10
SECRETARIATOFFICE          FEDERAL DISTRICT
DEPUTY    DIRECTOR|
L      S~ECRETARIAT|
t _     CONTRO L              }                                          EIIEBIDDING COMMTE 
LEGAL                ADMINISTRATION                 PLANNING                      WORKS                     OPERATIONS
H  PERSONNEL   l    _|PLANNING PROGRAMING             CONSTRUCTION                MAINTENANCE
AND CONTRO
MATERIAL                ENGINEERING A             BRIDGES AND STRUCTURES       HIGHWAY EQUIPME
H   COORDiNATION   1   4  DATA PROCESSING              AND  BETTERMENT                 TRAFFIC
FINANCE                     RESEARCH                                             BUS AND TRUCK
TRANSPORT
DISTRICT OFFICES ( One in each State)
November 1969                                                                                                                          IBRD-4654 -






BRAZIL: SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF GEIPOT
P E        REXECUTIVE COUNCIL                       SECRETARIAT 
DIO  ADVISORS                                A SUPERINTS                                       [    S
|COORDINATIO |
DEPARTMNT OF      |TECHICAL                                                                                     TECHNICAL
ADMINISTRATION                                           ESERVICES                                              DPARTMENT
_ ADMINISTF'TOR                                            DCMNATION                                              ECONOMIC_
EQ. IPMENT AND              DOCUMENTATION                                                  ES~~~~~~~~ ORTAN  INAN
SUPPLIES                                                  CENTER                                                STuDIE_
_  PERSONNEL                                       2        EERHHIGHWAY 
_   DIVISION                                                                                            N    STUDIES
i  FINANCIAL    l                                       PUBLICATIONS    l|                                       RAILWAY 
ACCOUNTING~ l~                                           A DRFT IN|| PORT AND INLAND 
SECTION                                                                                                 INAVIGATION STUD[E 
SPECIAL
STUDIE
TREASURY | 
-I






BRAZIL: SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT OF MARANHAO
(DER - MA)
|  H I G H W A Y    C O U N C I L
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL                           DIE         GENERAL
SECRETARIAT
pDISTRICTS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~VC-IRCO GENIEIRIL
a q     ASSISTANCE TO     |     Iq PURCHASING COMMITTEE
CENTRAL WAREHOUSE|
SURVEY AND            CONSTRUCTION               EQUIPMENT             MAINTENANCE                                     ADMINISTRATIVE
DESIGN DIVISION            DIVISION                DIVISION                DIVISION             LEGAL DIVISION              DIVISION
EQUI PMEN~T                                                            APRPRAINS
i  SURVEYS  l   i STRUCTURE SECTION |   -|   EOUIpMENTRECORDS                                                           CONTROL
PAVING AND             CENTRAL REPAIR  |                                                   EACCOUNTS RECEIV-
8  MAPPING  l   m   LABORATORY                   SHOP                                                                ABLE AND PAYABLE
CONTROl OF
RIGHT - OF - WAY      GENERAL SERVICING                                                             RECEI PTS
TRANSPORT                                                                  PERSONNEL
Noee 1TREASURERD
SERVICES       | 
Novemnber 1 969                                                                                                                             RD45E






BRAZIL: SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
STATE HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT
RECOMMENDED STANDARD ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
STATE GOVERNOR
__       -A----
SECRETARY OF TRANSPORRT          1
L  ___  AND  PUBLIC WORKS           K     j
| HIGHWAY COUNCIL         ll
AUDITING COMITEDIRECTOR GENERAL                                                              TRAFFIC COUNCIL
| SECRETARIAT                              DEPUTY DI RECTOR
DEIG  ADIVISONSTRUTIO                                                  MAINTENANC_E DIVISION         |i                                   ADMINISTPATIVE DIVISION        l
DIVISION ~ ~    ~       ~ ~ ~ MANENNE  IISO
Engineering Design Section                                           Maintenance Section                                                    Finance Section
Field Teams                                                        Field Teams
Soils and Material Section                                       Equipment and Stores Section |                                            Personnel Section
Field Teams
_        ZPurchasing Section
Construction Section                                                                                                                       Legal Section
II                                    1Assistance to Municipalities Sect.
Field Teams
TrafFic Section
Police District No. 1          Highway District No.1
-    Police District No. 2            Highway District No.2
IBRD-4734
January 1970






ANNEX A
BRAZIL
Transport Survey
I. Main Recommendations
Transport Coordination
1.        The consultants made general recommendations which, if adopted,
would go far to ensure the movement of traffic by that mode of transport
which incurred the least cost to the economy. It was recommended that
investments be made according to economic criteria, that there be free
user choice of mode of transport, that government policies should not un-
duly favor or discriminate between modes, and that users be charged in
proportion to the costs of resources consumed in the provision of the
services.
Railways
2.        An extensive analysis of the Federal and State railways was made
and the main recommendations included:
(a) The merger of all railways into one system, controlled
by a Board with Managing Director responsible to the
Minister of Transport;
(b) A program of abandonment of uneconomic lines;
(c) Improvement in equipment, signalling and operations;
(d) Reduction of personnel;
(e) Adoption of cost-based tariffs; and
(f) "Normalization" of accounts (writing of concessionary
Government traffic at full commercial rate).
Ports
3.        The ports of Rio de Janeiro, Santos and Recife were studied in
detail with a view to providing guidelines for the improvement of admin-
istration and to prepare master plans for investment. The situation in
the ports was unsatisfactory in almost every respect, the principal cause
being overcentralization. It was proposed that the National Port Organi-
zation be responsible only for rational planning and coordination and that
individual ports should be transformed into largely independent port au-
thorities. For the port of Rio de Janeiro, the Survey recommended exten-
sive rehabilitation and expansion of facilities, including new wheat and



ANNEX A
Page 2
dry bulk terminals, and new general cargo berths. In Santo, new facilities,
including a container berth, were recommended to handle increasinR traffic.
In Recife, replacement of almost all equipment was recommended as well as
the rebuilding of sheds.
Coastal Shipping
4.        The consultants were asked to identify major shortcomings and
to recommend any new investment in ships that may be required. A major
finding was that the present fleet was much too large for the available
cargo and extensive scrapping was recommended. Fixed sailing schedules
were suggested, as were the consolidation of shipping companies and the
decrease in the role of the regulatory body, the Merchant Marine Commis-
sion.
Highways
5.        The highway studies covered the following States:
Phase I
Minas Gerais, Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul
Phase II
Region A     Region B           R<g4on C      Region D       Region E
Sao Paulo    Rio de Janeiro   Bahia           Alagoas        Ceara
Mato Grosso  Espirito Santo   Sergipe         Pernambuco    Piaui
Goias                                         Paraiba        Maranhao
Rio Grande
do Norte
The studies concluded with the listing of priorities for investment on
national and state networks, forecasts of financial expenditures on high-
way investment, maintenance equipment, and maintenance and administration.
They also included recommendations for the improvement of organization and
maintenance, financial programs and user charges.*
6.        Recommended investment expenditures for construction and/or pav-
ing are given in Table 11 (1970-1973). Tentative financing plan is shown
in Table 12.
*    Available December, 1969.



ANNEX A
Page 3
II. CONSULTANTS ENGAGED IN THE TRANSPORT SURVEY
Consultants and Nationality                                 Duties
PHASE I
(1)  Coverdale and Colpitts (USA)  Coordinating consultants and
railway studies.
(2)  INGEROUTE (France)             Highway Master Plan and Organiza-
tion Study, and Feasibility Studies
in the State of Minas Gerais.
(3)  KAMPSAX (Denmark)              Highway Master Plans and Organiza-
tion Studies, and Feasibility Stud-
ies in the States of Parana, Santa
Catarina, and Rio Grande do Sul.
(4)  NEDECO (Netherlands)           Study of the Ports of Rio de
Janeiro, Recife and Santos, and of
coastal shipping.
PHASE II
(1)  KAMPSAX (Denmark)              Coordinating Consultants.
(2)  Parsons, Brinkerhoff,    )    Highway Master Plans and Feasibility
Quade and Douglas (USA) )    Studies in the States of Sao Paulo,
)    Mato Grosso and Goias.
Edwards and Kelcey (USA) )
)    Highway Organization Studies in the
ASPLAN (Brazil)           )    States of Mato Grosso and Goias.
)
MONTOR-MONTREAL (Brazil) )
(3)  NORCONSULT (Norway)       )    Highway Master Plans and Organiza-
)    tion Studies in the states of Rio
Servicos de Planejamento )    de Janeiro and Espirito Santo
(Brazil)                 )
(4)  Xaver Dorsch (Cermany)         Highway Master Plans and Organiza-
tion Studies, and Feasibility Stud-
ies in the States of Bahia and Sergipe
(5)  Louis Berger (USA)             Highway Master Plans and Organiza-
tion Studies in the State of Alagoas,
Pernambuco, Paraiba, and Rio Grande
do Sul.
(6)  Sauti (Italy)                  Highway Master Plans and Organiza-
tion Studies in the States of Maranhao,
Piaui, and Ceara.
March 1970






First Plan of Action (PA-fl
Progress of Ilem_ntatimn
itemt                                                                                    tt
RAIIWAYS
1.  Consolidation of Federal and State System                                           Iottgntion of operatione is proceedirg.
Plans for merger still under discussion.
2 *  Amendrmnt of RFFSA's Statutes to permit consolidation  In                          Copl*ted sid 1968.
creation of Regional Systeme
3.   Introduction of Regional System  in Federal Raibraye                               Target date 1970 - Completed Auguet 1969.
4.  Staff:  a) Reduction of personnel to 120,000 by 1971.                               In 10 maotha (August/1968 - June/1969) staff was
rI    d by 3,600 to 127,400 - Reduction is being continued.
b)  Changes in Labor-Wages legislation                                    Subeitted to Governmnt - under study.
5.  Accounting:
a)  Modernizirg of accounting uysts with assistamae                       Consultants started werk July 1969.
of consultants
b)  Completion of mechanization by first half of 1969                     pus to delay in appointing consultants, now set
for early 1970.
6.   Operations:
a) Revision cf procedores to improve efficiency                           Will be porsued with asistance of consultants now
appointed (SOFRERAIL).
b)  Closure of 416 unprofitable stations by Dec. 31, 1969                 A total of 428 stations will be closed by Dec. 31, 1969
7.  Introduction of a new cost-based tariff systa by third quarter 1969                Will be pursued with assista ne of consultants now appointed.
6. Elimination of 7,300 km of unesonoric lines by 1972                                 Already closed 5,162 kmj balance is planned to be closed by
end 1970.
9. Action on new line corztruction to be tsken as recomnded by                          Reoomendations have been foflowad with exception of one
Transport Survey subject to ationasl security  ad social requirements               project for which a feasibility study was prepared by consultante.
10. Deficit:
a)  Compensation by Qovernmert for erforced law rates                     Partially implemented - should be completed in 1970
("ncrmaliz ati on")
b) Incorporation of 10% tax in tariffs                                   NJ1 yet implemented
c) Reduation of operating ratio to 200 by 1968 (without                  Achieved
normaliz ati on)
H113W AYS
1.  Reorganization of Highway Administrstion:
a)  Completion of DNER's reorganization stub' by the ed of 1968          Achieved. New organization legalized March 1969.
b)  Gradual transfer of DNER's eonstruction antd maintenance              US Bureau of Public Roads to start early 1970, pending final agree-
functions to the DER's,                                               met with UAID.
Contruction functions to be delegated to states on a road by road basi?.
Maintenance: Road tax restructured atd esroarked for maintenance
purposes. DNER's share to be transferred to states to cover maintenance
expenditures on National roads. Complete delegation of maintenance
fnctions to Minas Geratsand 3 southern states to be accomplished in 1970.
c)  Reorganization of DER's                                               G1IPOT reorganization studies oompleted 1969
Emblirg legtslation enbmitted to state authorities
M(fiaaa6 Gerais- Santa Catarina)
Consultants beirg contracted for implementation
(Parana - Rio Grande do Sul)
Reorganization underway (Bahia - Rio de Janeiro)
2.  R-sruotn ring of Road user charges - Final proposals to be  oubmitted             jAut`en delayed pending publioation of Transport Survey Phase II
by the end of 1961                                                                reoosmeuldatiosm (due Decenber 1969).
3.   Proparation of investment budgets to be based on Transport Survey                  3-year investment budget (1968-70) ars  recent annual budgets are
priorities                                                                        essentially based on survey priorities.  Main exceptions are for low
standard roads to open up virgin territcries.
PORTS
1.  Decentralization of Pxrt Adnnistration:
a)  Completion by mid-1969 of irventories of assets of mrAjor             Uderay for port of Santos and Rio de Janeiro
ports
b)  Settirg up of autonoewnue and firancially viable entities             Legislation enabling the set up of such entities has been lassed (1962)
for the manages nt of maJor ports
2.   Acccuntirg:
a)  Appointssnt by the emd of 1968 of conaultunts to recrganize           Consultants started work June 1969.
accounti ng
b)  Introduction of new acoounting procedtres by the second               Due to delay in appointing consultants, introduction of new procedures
half of 1969                                                          now planned for mid-1970.
3.   Adoption of cost-based port charges                                               Due to delay in 2 above now planned for end 1970.
DECE`PBR, 1 '4 






ANh3EX C
BRAZIL
Second Plan of Action (PA-2)
Outline of Measures and Objectives
TGANSPORT  POLICY
Tipleaentation of GEIPOT reorganization  during the course of VPi
RAILWAYS
1.   Continuation of negotiations regarding merger of federal ard Sao Paulo state railways;
2.   Staff
a)   Reduction of staff to 120,000 by December 1971
b)   Determination of minimum staff repiiresenrts - with assistance of consultants (SOFRERAIL) - by  June 1970.
3.   Tariffs
a)   Tariff incmases - to be in line with inflation
b)   Adoption of cost-based tariff policies by  June 1970
c)   Incorpcration into RFFSA's tariffs of the 10% tax on rail charges by June 1970
L.   Uneconomdc lires
a)   Implerentation of the 7,335 km program for closure of uneconoric lines  during 1970
b)   Study.a light density lines (traffie volua   below 200,000  act ton km/route k-) by the end of 1970
5.   Study to identify unprofitable stations far claare  idutted by end of March 1970; ilmplementation to start by the end of 1970.
6.   Preparation of feasibility studies prior to corstraction of new lines
7.   Preparation of a 3-year investment program (1971-73) based on traffic projections and financial forecasts by June 1970
HIGHWAYS
1.   Reorganization of Highway Administration
a)   Implerentation of ItER's reorganization with assistance of US Bureau of Public Road ccnsultants
b)   Gradual delegation of D13ER's maintenance and construction functions to the DER's.
First Step:    Delegation of maintenance fanctions to DER' s of southern states and MUnas Gerais arid transfer of
DNER's shame of Road Tax to cover related expenditures (daring 1970)
c)   Reorganization of DER's
2.   Planning
a)   Strengthening of DNER's planning capacity in mid-1970
b)   Establishment within IWER of a central investmnt reviewtrantanico for national ard atote proiecto  during 1971
3.   Supervisi on
a)   Improvement of construction supervisi on
b)   Employment of consultants to assist INER's supervisory staff
c)   Creation within DNER of a central group for coordinaticn of oupervision in mid-1970
4.   Road user charges
Restructuring of road user charges based on the recommendations of Phase II of Transport Survey. Will hold discussions with the
Rank in 1970.
FCh TS
1.   Decentralization of Port Administration
a)   Creation of mixed enterprises fwr the mnagement of major ports.
b) Reorganizatius of DEPYN with objective to become planning, policy arid rate controlling authority. Study to be carried out in
1970 for implementation in 1971 and 1972.
2.   Accounting
Introdaction of modern accounting procedures (under study by consultants) during 1971
3.   Adoption of cost-based port charges.
L.   Training of personrel in port and financial msnagenent and port handling techniques.
MARCH 1Y70






ANNEX D
Page 1
REORGANIZATION OF HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
1.        To achieve the best results for purposes of road work planning
and execution the Government has decided to concentrate planning and over-
all supervision of the national and state highway systems in DNER, with
actual execution being delegated to state authorities.   This will eliminate
costly duplication of facilities and allow for uniformity of criteria and
methods. Specifically this reorganization will make DNER responsible for:
(a)  planning and regulatory functions;
(b)  financing of road programs and supervision of
utilization of resources allocated;
(c)  overall supervision of physical operation and
financial activities;
(d)  supervision of the application of legislation
and rules; and
(e)  completion of statistical data.
State authorities will be responsible for the executive side of the activ-
ities, including construction, paving, general betterments, maintenance and
ancillary works.
2.        Reorganization of DNER has commenced.   A management study con-
ducted by Brazilian consultants - Getulio Vargas Foundation - was completed
in 1968 and DNER's new organizational structure was legalized in March 1969
(Decree Law 512, and Decree Law 64, 242). Concurrently with DNER's reorgani-
zation the strengthening and reorganization of DERs is proceeding. During
the two phases of the Transport Survey, reorganization studies were conducted
for the main states and all reports are available in draft form.
3.        Four states covered by the First Highway Project (Loan 567 BR)
have taken the first steps toward legalizing the organizational changes
recommended by the Survey:
Minas Gerais: This is already one of the best
organized departments in the country. Legislation
enabling DER to reorganize has been presented to
the state government (September 1969) and DER
intends to implement the survey recommendations
during 1970.
Parana: The State Highway Department has invited
consultants (October 1969) to present proposals to
define the program of implementation of the proposed
reorganization. Legislative action is pending.



ANNEX D
Page 2
Santa Catarina: A draft law which embodies DER's
new organization has been submitted to the state
government for approval (September 1969). Proposed
new organization is in close correspondence with the
Transport Survey recommendations.
Rio Grande do Sul: The State Highway Department has
invited consultants (November 1969) to present pro-
posals to define the program of implementation of the
proposed reorganization.
4.        Reorganization of other DERs is also underway.   The State of
Rio de Janeiro has already approved the organitational changes recommended
for its Highway Department. In the State of Bahia, regional districts
have been created in accordance with the consultants' recommendations.
Other state highway departments have expressed their intention to imple-
ment the recommendations in the near future.
March 1970



ANNEX E
Page 1
THE PROJECT ROADS
The principal economic features of the regions in which project
roads would be located are given in Chapter 5 - Economic Evaluation. The
essential technical characteristics of the project roads, including de-
scription of existing conditions and proposed standards, are given in
Tables 13-15. Quantification of economic merits are given in Tables 19-
21. Descriptions of eacht project road follow:
A. In the Northeast Region
Roads Pposed for Construction and/or Paving
1.        Route BR-222 (199.7 km).  This is the only link in the important
route between Teresina (capital of Piaui) and Fortaleza (capital of Ceara
and the main industrial center of the region) that is not either paved or
being pr _d. The area of direct zone of influence covers 17,000 km2 with
an estimated population of 300,000 inhabitants. Most of the agricultural
production of the zone of influence is consumed locally, so the most impor-
tant flows on this highway are long distance hauls of cement, meat, petro-
leum products, rice and cotton. The ADT for 1972 */ is 356 vehicles of
which 79% are trucks. Traffic growth over the 1969-1976 period is estimated
to be 11%, and for the 1977-1991 period, 8% per year.
2.        Route BR-324 (105 km).  This is the only link between the major
road network of the state of Bahia and Salvador, its capital and major
port. It plays a dual role of linking Salvador to its hinterland, where
the movements are composed of short distance trips, as well as handling
all long distance traffic with origin and/or destination in this city.
From km 0 to km 32, the 1967 ADT varied from a high of 10,730 to a low
of 3,700 vehicles with an average of 40% trucks and an average annual
traffic growth rate of about 9% until 1975 slackening to about 6.5% until
1991. In this section the road is very congested and the accident rate is
high (2.41 accident, and 0.33 fatalities, per million vehicle-km in 1967).
From km 32 to km 105 the 1967 ADT varied from a high of 3,250 to a low of
2,600 vehicles, with an average of 45 percent trucks, and an average an-
nual traffic growth rate of 15% until 1975 slackening to about 6% in 1991.
One of the country's most important industrial parks (Aratu) is being con-
structed between km 8 and km 42, and is expected to contribute greatly to
traffic increase. On the basis of the projected traffic it is recommended
that Section I (km 0 to km 32) be constructed as a four-lane divided high-
way, and for Section II (km 32 to km 105) improvement of the existing two
lane highway is recommended.
*/   The 1972 ADT given throughout this Annex is composed of the ADT for
1968, projected to 1972, the year of opening of the project roads,
plus the diverted traffic which is expected to take place the year
of opening.



ANNEX E
Page 2
3.        Route BR-101 -  (1,011.7 km).  These road sections are part of
the 4,000 km highway which is one of the two major north-south routes in
Brazil, the other being BR-116 further to the west. BR-101 starts in
Osorio in Rio Grande do Sul, some 600 km from the Uruguay border, and
runs close to the coast, nearly the entire length of Brazil, linking the
most important urban centers and ending in Natal, in Rio Grande do Norte.
The direct zone of influence of this road project extends over 86,000 km2,
and its population is about 2 million. Traffic flows on this highway are
composed of lumber, cacao and cotton originating in Bahia and Espirito
Santo, and food products, cement, construction materials, and iron and
steel, originating in the manufacturing centers along the coast. This
road will also play an important role in the north-south movement of
people on business trips or as tourists. The 1972 ADT on these road
sections varies from a low of 984 to a high of 1,398 vehicles, of which
an average of 58% is trucks, and the estimated rate of traffic growth is
about 11% a year.
Roads Proposed for Detailed Engineering
4.        Route BR-104 (306 km).  This highway has two functions, namely,
inter-connecting the productive agricultural interior of the northeastern
states, and providing an alternate route to BR-101 between Natal and the
other important urban centers of northern Brazil, to Salvador, Rio de
Janeiro and Sao Paulo in the south. The 1967 ADT on these road sections
varied from a high of 700 to a low of 200 vehicles, with heavy vehicles
varying from 75 to 45% and the traffic growth rate increasing between 6
and 10% per year.
5.        Route BR-316/232 (302 km).  This road plays an important role
in integrating various parts of the northeast by providing a direct link
between Teresina, Sao Luis and Belem on one hand, and Recife, the major
growth pole of the region, on the other. Since most of the limited pro-
duction of the area of influence of this road is consumed locally, the
traffic which uses this route is primarily long distance through traffic
between the above-mentioned centers. The 1967 ADT was 205 vehicles of
which 70% were trucks, and the annual growth rate is estimated at 11%.
6.        Route BR-324 (4 km).  This is an extension of Route BR-324 in-
cluded in this project for construction (described above) and forms the
major access route to the northern section of the city of Salvador. It
is expected to relieve the congested traffic at the entrance of the city,
and the estimated 1976 ADT is about 16,000 vehicles with 35% trucks, and
the traffic growth rate per year is estimated to be about 6.5%.
*/   Although about 25% of this project road is in the Central-East Re-
gion, the present description covers the complete route.



ANNEX E
Page 3
Roads Proposed for Feasibility Studies
7.        Route BR-412/110 (207 km).  This road provides a diagonal con-
nection in the central part of Paraiba and Pernambuco between two impor-
tant east-west highways, namely BR-232 originating in Recife, and BR-230
originating in Joao Pessoa. The 1967 ADT was 265 vehicles of which 45%
were trucks, and the estimated annual growth of the traffic is 10%.
8.        Routes BA-30, BR-630, BR-030, BA-026/554 (617 km).  This group
of roads, located in the southern part of Bahia, forms a small network
of transport alternatives from the area of Bom Jesus de Lapa on the Sao
Francisco river to BR-116 the major north south axis. The 1967 ADT varied
from a low of 150 to a high of 265 vehicles on the various roads, the
percentage of trucks varied from a low of 35% to a high of 65% and the
average annual growth is about 10%.
9.        Route BR-101 (136 km) is a missing link in this important north-
south ax4- which will significantly decrease the distance of the long haul
traffic which uses BR-101, by providing an alternative route to the pre-
sent one which goes through Salvador. The 1967 assigned ADT was 640 vehi-
cles with 72% trucks, and the rate of traffic growth is estimated to be
9% per year.
B.  In the Center-East Region
.oads Proposed for Construction and/or Paving
10.       Route BR-135 (167.8 km).  This is a part of the important link
between Montes Claros in the north of Minas Gerais and Belo Horizonte, the
state capital, about 433 km to the south. All of this route, except for
the section included in this project, is paved or being paved and forms
an important link to Sao Paulo. The area of the direct zone of influence
of this road is 19,500 km2, and the population is about 185,000 inhabit-
ants. It is an important producer of cotton, sugar cane and cement. Pro-
cessing of agricultural and animal prodtucts has recently developed the
most important being meats, vegetable oils, cloth, and skins and leather.
The 1972 ADT is 385 vehicles, with 50% trucks and the estimated vehicle
growth rate is 10% a year.
11.       Route BR-365 (114.5 km).  The construction and paving of this
road completes an all paved highway between the western part of Minas
Gerais and Sao Paulo to the south (via Route BR-50), Belo Horizonte to
the east (via Route BR-262), and Goiania and Brasilia to the North (via
Route BR-153).  The direct zone of influence of this road has an area of
5,600 km2 and a population of 130,000 inhabitants. Its main products
are rice, cotton and corn; and cattle raising is important. Canal Sao
Simao, where a hydro-electric plant is planned, is an important regional
tourist attraction and the construction of this road will improve its
accessibility to the inhabitants of the region's urban centers. The 1972
ADT is estimated to be 553 vehicles, with 37% trucks, and the growth rate
is 8% a year until 1982 when it is expected to slacken to 7% until 1991.



ANNEX E
Page 4
12.       Route BR-354 (110.7 km).  This is a major link in the 824 km
highway which runs between Eugenio Passos on BR-116 in the state of Rio
de Janeiro, and Cristalina in Goias. It also links the important regional
center of Patos de Minas to Belo Horizonte via Route BR-262. (The 30 km
section between Patos de Minas and Lagoa Formosa is being paved by DNER.)
The area of direct zone of influence of this road is about 9,000 km2 and
the population is close to 240,000 inhabitants. Its economy is based pri-
marily on farming and cattle raising, and the most important exports are
corn, dairy products, and cattle. The 1972 ADT is estimated to be 327 ve-
hicles, half of which are trucks, and the vehicle growth rate is expected
to be 9% a year until 1977 slackening to 7% per year until 1991.
Roads Proposed for Detailed En ineering
13.       Route ES-37/36 (69 km).  This road is of regional importance in
the north-central part of Espirito Santo and connects Nova Venecia and
Sao Domingos, two regional centers, to Vitoria, the state's capital via
Routes ES-2 and BR-259 (both under construction and paving). The 1967
ADT was 185 vehicles of which 55% were trucks, and the estimated vehicle
growth rate is 9% a year.
14.       Route RJ-133 (60 km) and Route RJ-B2 (60 kin).  These form a
continuous east-west link in the northern part of the state of Rio de
Janeiro, where at present the radial system is focused on the city of
Rio de Janeiro and most of the east-west movements are therefore obliged
to pass through it. Thus, by providing an alternate route, this link is
expected to decrease the distance of the east-west movements, and help
in relieving the congestion in the city. The 1967 ADT on Route RJ-133
was 535 vehicles with 40% trucks, and on Route RJ-82 335 vehicles with
84% trucks. Average annual traffic growth rates on these roads are 8%
and 6% respectively.
15.       Route BR-354 (128 km).  This is a continuation of Route BR-354
included in this project for construction and paving (discussed above),
and are parts of a direct route from Patos de Minas, with its important
agricultural area, and Sao Paulo, via Route BR-381.  The 1967 ADT was
205 vehicles with 48% trucks, and the average annual growth rate is 11%.
16.       Route MG-174/168/28 (188 km), Route MC-157 (101 km).  These form
an efficient regional network, serving an important agricultural area in
southwest Minas Gerais by inter-connecting the major regional centers.
The 1967 ADT on these links varied from a low of 190 vehicles to a high
of 435 vehicles, and the percentage of trucks varied from a low of 45 to
a high of 51% while annual vehicle growth rate is about 10% throughout.
Roads Proposed for Feasibility Studies
17.       Route ES-43 (165 km) is an important regional road in north-
western Espirito Santo, connecting it to the transport network of Bahia.



ANNEX E
Page 5
The 1967 ADT was 180 vehicles with 34% trucks and the average annual
traffic growth is estimated to be 8%.
18.       Route BR-135 (202 km) is the main road connection between Rio
de Janeiro and Belo Horizonte, with a 1968 ADT varying from a low of
5,000 vehicles on the lesser travelled sections to a high of about 20,000
vehicles on the section near Rio de Janeiro of which about 35% are trucks.
A combination of poor alignment and heavy traffic have made this road
congested, and the feasibility study is needed to recommend a new align-
ment and suitable design standards.
19.       Route MG-10 (148 km) links Pirapora on the Sao Francisco River,
to Corinto in the central part of the state, and from there, via Routes
BR-135 and BR-40, to Belo Horizonte. The 1967 ADT was 1965 vehicles with
35% trucks and the average annual traffic growth rate is 9%.
C. In the Center-West Region
Roads Proposed for Construction and/or Paving
20.       Route BR-452 (181 km).  This forms a link in the 490 km Route
BR-452 which, together with parts of BR-364 and BR-50, provide the best
route from Cuiaba to Sao Paulo. It also provides, with BR-364 and BR-266,
the best route from Cuiaba to Belo Rorizonte. Its direct zone of influence
is 30,000 km2 and its population is estimated at 280,000 inhabitants, with
a growth rate of 6% per year, double that of the country, due to the high
rate of migration. The economy of the area is based on agriculture, the
most important crops being sugar cane, rice, bananas, and corn, as well
as cattle raising. The 1972 ADT is estimated to be 740 vehicles with
63% trucks and the vehicle growth rate is expected to be 8% a year.
Roads Proposed for Detailed Engineering
21.       Route BR-153 (254 km).  This is a part of the highway between
Brasilia and the central regions of Brazil on one hand, and Belem and
the northern regions of the country, on the other. Since its construc-
tion 10 years ago, it has played an important role in opening up the
interior of the country that has good agricultural and cattle raising
potential. The 1967 ADT was 420 vehicles with 71% trucks, and the growth
rate of vehicles is about 10% a year.
22.       Route BR-060 (274 km) is a link in the highway that connects
Brasilia and Goiania to Cuiaba, via Route BR-364 (included in this pro-
ject for a feasibility study, described below). It also connects at Rio
Verde with Route BR-452 included for construction in this project (de-
scribed above), and these two roads together link the whole region direct-
ly to Sao Paulo. The 1967 ADT was 312 vehicles with 46% trucks and the
average annual traffic growth is 8%.
23.       Route BR-163 (71 km).  This is a link in the highway connecting
Cuiaba, the capital of Mato Grosso, to Campo Grande, the major growth



ANNEX E
Page 6
pole in the southern part of the state where agriculture and cattle graz-
ing are important. The rest of Route BR-163, from Bandeirantes to Cuiaba,
is included in this project for a feasibility study (described below).
The 1967 ADT was 340 vehicles with 74% trucks and the annual rate of growth
of the vehicles is 6%.
Roads Proposed for Feasibility Studies
24.       Route BR-364 (661 km) is the major road connection between Cuiaba,
southern Goias and western Minas Gerais connecting, at Canal Sao Simao on
the Goias-Minas Gerais border, with Route BR-365 included in this project
for construction. The 1967 ADT was 285 vehicles, with 50% trucks, and a
traffic growth rate of 7% annually.
25.       Route BR-364/163 (758 km) is the continuation of the Route BR-163
road section included in this project for detailed engineering (discussed
above), and provides the major north-south axis in the state of Mato Grosso.
The 1967 ADT was 400 vehicles, with 50% trucks, and the estimated traffic
growth rate is 8% a year.
D. In the Far South Region
Roads Proposed for Construction and/or Paving
26.       Route BR-470 (88.6 kmn).  This is an extension of Route BR-470
financed in the Bank's First Highway Project and forms a part of the 435
Im highway which runs from Itajai on the coast of Santa Catarina to Lagoa
Vermelha in Rio Grande do Sul. There it connects with Route BR-282 that
terminates near the Argentine border. The area of the direct zone of in-
fluence of this road is about 3,500 km2, and its population about 140,000
inhabitants. The economy of this area is based on agriculture, and the
most important products are lumber, potatoes, corn and wheat. The 1972
ADT is estimated to be 1,050 vehicles with 55% trucks, and the vehicle
growth rate is expected to be 14% until 1976, slackening to 10% thereafter
until 1991.
27.       Route BR-158 (62.8 km).  This will be the first paved link in
the 2,700 km highway which runs from the northern limits of Mato Grosso
to the Uruguay border. The area of the direct zone of influence of the
project road is about 7,500 km, and its population about 220,000 inhabit-
ants. Its economy is based on agriculture and pig raising, and the main
products are tobacco, rice, corn, wheat and potatoes. The 1972 ADT is
estimated to be close to 1,000 vehicles, 41% of which are trucks, and the
average annual growth rate is about 9% until 1977, slackening to 6% there-
after until 1991.
28.       Route RS-38/11 (47 km) and Route RS-3 (50 km).  These are locat-
ed in the very fertile area northwest of Porto Alegre and provide improved
transport between the major urban centers of the area (Lajeado in the case
of Route RS-38/11, and Santa Cruz in the case of RS-3) and Porto Alegre.
Route RS-3 is a continuation of Route BR-386 which is being financed by the



ANNEX E
Page 7
Bank's First Highway Project. The common zone of influence of these roads
has an area of about 20,000 km2 and a population of about 600,000 inhabit-
ants. The regional economy is based on agriculture with potatoes, wheat
and tobacco the main products, in addition to the raising of pigs. The
1972 ADT for Route RS-38/11 is estimated to be 1,200 vehicles of which
half are trucks, and the annual rate of growth is about 9%. The 1972 ADT
for Route RS-3 is about 600 vehicles, with 63% trucks, and the growth rate
is 8% per year.
Roads Proposed for Detailed Engineering
29.       Rotute PR-12 (44 km).  This road is of regional importance and
connects a fertile agricultural area in northern Parana to the east-west
oriented transport system of the state, via Route BR-369 which also runs
across the state of Sao Paulo. The 1967 ADT was 1,295 vehicles with 56%
trucks, and the average annual rate of vehicle growth is 11%.
30.       .ooute BR-153 (241 km) forms an important inter-regional highway
on the central axis of the three southern states linking the area to the
consumption centers to the north. The 1967 ADT was 325 vehicles of which
64% were trucks, and the average annual rate of traffic growth is 15%.
31.       Route BR-386/158 (163 km).  The construction of this road sec-
tion will complete the "Kennedy Highway" which connects the western part
of Santa Catarina and northwestern Rio Grande do Sul, to Porto Alegre.
The last 54 km section outside Porto Alegre was included in the Bank's
First Hlighway Project. The 1967 ADT was 250 vehicles of which 58% were
trucks, and the average annual rate of vehicle growth is 14%.
32.       Route RS-19 (25 km). This road north of Porto Alegre is of
regional importance and connects an important agricultural area to Route
BR-116 the most important north-south axis in the region. The 1967 ADT
was 925 vehicles with 61% trucks and the average annual traffic growth
is 10%.
Roads Proposed for Feasibility Studies
33.       Routes PR-13 (221 km) and Route PR-67 (80 km) form a small net-
work of road alternatives in the agricultural north-central part of the
state of Parana, linking a number of regional centers to the main diagonal
highway of the state, Route BR-376, and through it to Curitiba, the state
capital. The 1967 ADT varied from a high of 2,000 to a low of 385 vehi-
cles on the various road sections, the truck percentage from 62 to 40, and
the average annual rate of traffic growth from 8 to 15%.
34.       Route RS-54/48 (246 km) and Route RS-50 (128 km) form a small
road network in the northern part of Rio Grande do Sul, connecting the
regional centers of Santa Rosa and Ijui to Route BR-386, included in this
project for detailed engineering, and through it to Porto Alegre. The
1967 ADT ranged from 200 to 135 vehicles on these roads with 60% trucks,
and an annual growth rate of vehicles of 15%.



ANNEX E
Page 8
35.       Route BR-158/377 (235 km) is a continuation of Route BR-153
included in this project for construction, linking the north-central parts
of Rio Grande do Sul to Santa Maria, an important town in the center of
the state. The 1967 ADT was 425 vehicles, with 62% trucks, and the aver-
age annual traffic growth is 11%.
March 1970



ANNEX F
Page 1
BRAZIL
Consultants Engaged in the Preparation of
the Second Highway Construction Project
I.   Detailed Engineering Studies
(For roads proposed for construction and/or paving)
Consultants and Nationality          State                Road Number
Astep/H. de Santana (Brazil)         Piaui/Ceara             BR 222
(Xaver Dorsch (Germany)              Bahia                   BR 324
(Tenpo (Brazil)
Hidrcservice (Brazil)                Bahia                   BR 101
Astep SA (Brazil)                    Bahia                   BR 101
Tenpo (Brazil)                       Bahia                   BR 101
Copavel (Brazil)                     Bahia                   BR 101
ESPA (Brazil)                        Espirito Santo          BR 101
Euler (Brazil)                       Rio de Janeiro          BR 101
ETUC (Brazil)                        Minas Gerais            BR 135 (MG1)
Consol (Brazil)                      Minas Gerais            BR 365 (MG54)
Consol (Brazil)                      Minas Gerais            BR 354 (MG163)
Proenge (Brazil)                     Goias                   BR 452
Etel/Planisul (Brazil)               Santa Catarina          BR 470
(SC43/68)
Etel/Planisul (Brazil)               Rio Grande do Sul       BR 158
Louis Berger (Brazil)                Rio Grande do Sul       RS38/11
Sondotechnica (Brazil)               Rio Grande do Sul       RS 3



ANNEX F
Page 2
II. Feasibility Studies
(For roads proposed for detailed engineering)
Consultants and Nationality          State                 Road Number
Astep (Brazil)                       Rio Grande do Norte/
Paraiba/Pernambuco/
Alagoas                 BR 104
Technometal/Rodio (Brazil)           Piaui/Ceara              BR 116/232
X. Dorsch (Germany)                  Bahia                    BR 324
Proenge/Lasa/Etapa (Brazil)          Minas Gerais             BR 354 (MG25)
Hidroservice (Brazil)                Goias                    BR 153
Enecon (Brazil)                      Parana/Santa
Catarina/Rio Grande
do Sul                  BR 153
Enecon (Brazil)                      Rio Grande do Sul/       BR386/158
Santa Catarina          (RS51/SC102/11)
March 1970



P                              /   r
1
C
Iii                                                                                                       1>
:Nc.    ,)   -                  6
_                                          A-                                                 Li:)
5=
  0>                                                                                             
>7                         "
nc                                            'A
C-'                                          '
-z                                                                                       ;    k
C
N    (                                                 )       '(    ,j
)     y                    o                  /            'A
46      -o                                            .-NO
,J  '0                           6                                            7
A

/
'4                                              6
1'
4.'!                              A                                                                                                        K
C                                         '4      /
C
'                 C         'I          -*
?.   -.                                                                                                          (
C)
a    -
.1
:2
   t   4.. 4..,
C>
:4.4






MAP 2
TRANSPORT SURVEY
PHASES I &JI
VENEZUELA
>      S       X        (   URINAU     X      -~AU
PARA                                             lAMRNtIO-~EE$N  CAA  p~
0    IDD 200 300 40D D0  t0   URGUY ;r                
MItt   A
DECEMBER 1960                                                                                                                         IRRD 10910?






MAP 3
j ,                            i   X~~~rodo O M-J- csum    tto-
N.
/s    0    t M.,eorocog  n
I
rV                                                                                                      . Aon  +  tooonu  joAenono 
4~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ldr  HIri                                                        CrooO               4p                                                           Hpool ItCi   0-200  PORTALEZA
Logos          LCo,npo0 *r       *)                      0t r IA                                r               CE
.. ) -                       A:                                   *to                                                           Coondo tP-  b
.9  0--fiV                                                                                                                                    X-
+ ++ + + + + 0 r                                                                                                    A        J           o                     *0    P           & R AI  BEA
oo;                              ox                          $                                                                                     'icmi   ,          J    -  ogorib e
U  A        ~         A-
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O so Cnio                                                    +                        >                 t4                                      4   _    
C,   ..,,                                     '0                                         50 4~~~P.,- g.K
I  4                              s                                                                         '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAR      
+ 
BRAZIL                                                   +                       \             y'                   t             3/
SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT                                                       +                                                                      PE R N A  M  8 U  C O
+                             0%0                         4,-
STATES OF MARANHAO, PIAUI AND CEARA                                           +                              ',, P
- -d -o0 t nod                                                                           T                                                                                  f
...      . RHoods grode con-tnuctod to f-ol engineermg stondondo      + + +o-              oo,, T<                                                                                           5 Yr
- --         Hoods under oonst-ootion o- R-f- ,,,--                                                      . -                                                                                        AT
++- +--o  Plonnod  oodt o                                                                                                                                                                                  G
*       DNER field mointenono, hoodquorteno                           o                                       B            A            HAA-
*       DER Nfeld mointenonos hoodq-uotfro                            1                                       B
HIGHWAYS INCLUDED IN THE SECOND PROJECT                       +
F.,  -t-t-  -d/.-. P.                                      /                                                                                                              -i9g
For onontruooion god/or pooing                             t                                                     0    50        000     050     z00                                            0'
For deftolod -nginnering                                  +             9                                                                                                                    A  Ku
Stoto boundony 
DECEMBER 1969 INRr R                                                                                                                                                                                                   1RD 2740






MAP 4
BRAZIL                                                         Rums A             'y. o           Are.... n-
SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT                                                                   /                 U E
STATES OF RIO GRANDE DO NORTE, PARAIBA,                                                                     o   A
PERNAMBUCO AND ALAGOAS                                           |                          Mosoro M.c,u
P-ved roads .                                                                                           *                    N
.......  Roads grade -onatruct.d to Hnal enginsering standards                                 Y
Unpaved roads                                                                    x,
-  - --   Roads .,der construct-ion                                                         A x                           a   .R-30o          \                  JoEo edniana
--+++ -Plarned roads                                                                                                              aeI            5@5,55                    co-n
A       DNER field oais-tenasn  h.adq-ort-ns                          I                                0 r    a
*       DER fi.ld ma-nfenanse headq-art-rs                   JoaQ anb.                                 A uRsO               A a0    dt3
HIGHWAYS INCLUDED IN THE SECOND PROJECT                                                          SCOO a.                                        D' -'_ r                  NATAL
_ For   filed nF gineerng _tid                                                                                                       soa
....... Fo nf-ibility tudy                                                         P                            -                                         4 du
Stutn bo-ndary                    w   r                                                                                                       NA *o
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  onvo C-,                           xx                 f                  rorras Nov03 ont Crvv        x
e                                          *tico~~~A    A       >x   r                           t      *e-cac          r,~---          C                      0 
<^    x                                                        1 '-                  Pomuol       Ite                             *,        -*~  +  A nCl,    Conervoarstomaf
5                    C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
x       E       A        R       A                                                       P Cd                                                         0          OOord.v tpe
A                                  en~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P A + 
7 N ,-<*s | >, >!o- | \\ ws \ D Espero~~~~~~~~~~~~~OAO
/            a.      A~      ~ a                         A
~~~~~~~~~~~CrboCn                                                                                                                            snar       *   oX              'R-ECIFE
00   XP                                                                                                                          Q                           CaloA            lfon'  010d  GUw'la  PESSOA
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '                                                                                G          dof Irdios  _     Analoa^\ i 0
C,b
i                A                ~        ~      ~~H  I           A                  a                                          OaiOO.                S 
A,-m  ...................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ p  6\ .....-g.
A                                                   Cod
_ . _ .                                                                                                     \                                     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~doO 1~d
CESSUASy  0970                                                                                                                                                                                              oBRD-unorM






MAP 5
O    (P                         I         A         U         I        e                 1s                                              ;                p   a BU,O
A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J                                                                                                              C*.                                          4     S|
fz    B        g1|_ rz           O~~~~~~~"    )  X     -x                                        )t              Senor do                                  Sm
t    t      t                           ty                 ,*    ,  Xx                       tGbesr~~~~~~x 
z                                               ,c     i-'-                                     CaseNova G uc                                 - 0n     %
s   ;   y}                           /}~~~~~~~~~~0f      x    8 IRr mJomt90                                          / P vnkh1
-l                                                                                          Juoceira~G  A                                  /      A' , (of
BRAZIL               00 Loude    Rros                                                                                    c  c
SE ON             HI H       A        COS RU TOonudCos Xg,      npoi 
STTE  OF~ BAHI AN4SRIP30> ct
*3)               + s $oads qrade aondru%                                                                               CopitnarenGs-o-
-----  Rod  unde                                                       3'srcio                                 s 
302( 1%                                                          $M.d.Chop6u                                               We*                -
B |      |   lenne  road          9k24                                                                 XXeR2
ust
*         N   for ieo d $c   5242qI               IFotrar o                                                                      do
It
It                    *
*                    *E fiel  meneac   eaqatr                                        0FZGyr
0             B                  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1loeabf                                                              re
1             4~~~~~I 
0.  't~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~        ~       ~      ~       ~      r      1.
Forcontrutioa d/ rio  h                                                          -aving                     p       ALAhOR
I  #  Corrmntlno4                           Born Jesus~~~~~.0  t'    .R-03
Maa;r   ,                          Protonr                                                 3R-24
FESRUARY 1970
A  Masiopul~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                         E.rpoi
-'--'S         eUpaved road
-  Roads under construction ~  ~       ~       ~      6-                      3
SECOND   ~~~~HIGHWAYS ICOUENSTRUCTICOND  PROJECT                                                                    .F,i
F  - ood codetructonand/rctving
CeceeCeC. For feasbility study                                                                                                                            50C n S  350 0    '150
Slate boundary                                                               'ESANbTO    >.                                                  KILOMETERS
I SANTO  .'~~'l'   Pedro Caori
IBRD-2742R
FEBRUARY 1970






MAP 6
rn--,A-H j        IIH A
BRAZIL                                                                                                                             . .T3AI
SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                         'O.-
STATES OF ESPIRITO SANTO AND RIO DE JANEIRO
Paved roads                                                                                  /-    *
*........ Roads grade constructed to final engineering standards                                       eS                    iv           0    a
Unpaved roads                                                                          e                                       *
-  -  - -   Roads under construction                                                                 e
++-4-+- -+-  PlGnned roads                                                                                                         En            *,
A        ONER field maintenance headquarters                                       s vaedr:
*       DER field maintenance headquarters                                       G    VosFrneioed    *, -                                                          S0 .
HIGHWAYS INCLUDED IN THE SECOND PROJECT                                                                                                 N.  ..
For construction and/or paving                                                                                                                    2
For detailed engineering
......... For feasibility study
- T    State boundary
Aimere  /                                     Ci.
"C                                                         I~~~~~~~~~C
tti~~~~~~~~~i
()~~~~ **                        @      -e *uER-2e2%4ORI
er   ernins  3   +                              lto    i
i a R i a pen                S'0        TereTi.              Lo.s.ni
deiAbi-no      S.  An  toni
j   it~F A  d                                                                          S Foao do 9rr
50~' *'.~  .          .i, rdFo                                P eng
50100p~5 --   !~cj        .                                                                                                                           uu t Fw Do. Q.entres
V,Pt,Ro s..                                                   g
DECEMBER    1969                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD    274r
DECEMBER 1969                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD  2743






MAP 7
BRAZILB                                                                                                                                                A
SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT                                                                                        I                                          ,
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS                                                                                                                           t 
Paved roads d                                                                                    4      t                                    4                     ,''vrs
**e*  Raads grade ovestruoted ro tirl sogieserirgtardards                            a-7    1         st                                          of    .0 qt0 0/w 
Udpoaed roads                                                                           a                                                    t / o---
-- _ Roads aedsrooonstrvorior                                                      1      t'           d7 r/ tta. /                                                                              x
-s--s-4--r  Plarsd roads                                                                 wi  or                                                            t F                          x      MC rvooers v;                                           S 
A       DNER field male-enarce headquarters                                          /  -                                                                                                            Vo r                             ad 
U       DER fltld  sminte-a-os headqu.rrsrs                               Fo.ooro ad.
HIGHWAYS INCLUDED N THE FIRST PROJECT                    c      v       _      Nr-  ojrf   ;
F For ooretroorlor ardoor pamgvr\   ic niavSIr Tolc Wvg 5 
HIGHWAYS tNCLUDED IN THE SECOND PROJECT                               X     \*                              Te                       \          gf              qI4                                        :_          -osu  cD|o 
For .o.struotion ard/or paoirg
For detl.,Idegarirg
........ FoT feOoIbIlltr stody
S__tate bou-d,re
\                      9                                                                       <                              '-' _P--U-
=-4
o              t            s
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aov                                                                                                          Ce  ds     -,     *v                          0oss9c 
00    #   s0                   Rov taPucuI  htirimEo   > }             h            l                         T EI
aEsIUChY  IseD     40    soT4 '4 4                                                           aasm~P
41                                                                                                                                                                   co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 
4      0(5                                   OOt~~       ~      ~~~~0 GO  >oc4                              0000                      ,        L                    o 4t           0






MAP 8
BRAZIL.
SECOND HIGHWAY CONStRUCTION PROJECT
STATES OF MATO GROSSO AND GOIAS
Paved roads
......... Roads grade onstruted   firl engineiring standards
Unpaved roads
-  ___-  RReas under construction
-- -4-*'- Planned roads
A       DNER field maintenance headquarters
*       DER fielt maintenanse  headquartera
HIGHWAYS INCLUDED IN THE SECOND PROJECT
=             Forn constr`etian and/ir paving                                    4"',  4
A                                   For detailed engineerling                                                          MAR NHA
A  M  A  Z O   N  A   S              4                       . ... For feasibility study                                                   Arg-uMAH
State boundary                                             x
-  -  -  International boundan  ,/t
__ _ _ S _+ 'r                                          tbvo,                                                                           I       / tr
+ t                          --    _  .  pa,,-P    A    R   A                                                              +0 arnrrts  s
~~~~~                                                       N.  K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
/ ~ ~~~~~~                             ~        ~~~~~~~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~ >+  tt          jh.nvA, o| co,,to
R O N D O N I A g t JO < S>t Ss;; G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u                                                                  ruanionr t         '
IL V                                                            O                                                                              r
ROND6NIA   k                                                                                                                                                          ,
>      A              T        S7 G    0 S S k*'*J                                                               j    )                         fi ro4  A  04 
OltiP+                                                                                                                                   S *         3 /  H I A
MAT                                                                                                        GOn <A S $RAHIAs
M d.   -                                                       4     tA. ,tseotrwtr
M.B MOi L.. I.-   S I-1f. AR   A To (                                                                                                               eto
Alt.                                                                  7i,0 C,    P0ev   +  I/
pondendeulic                                      0   4BR4S,JLJA'~~~~dald
Alto.7/t0euoco R.d s     4              a        A 9  tu Sn                   G E  Rl  A  I S
7_  Fvorseb,  #Eet   /   s~veiAnagu              mires       ibt   rt5 Sdo4 t5s
R.            7* ia                                       tt                           a   -/ a
V      tuldouonqr~~               ?s-'    0                ac                                                     I A
PA~~~~ R                                      AG Ue AY                                                         Caral
,   _  -K LuOMeiTER
PD,ECEMBERirdig.                                      Pe  ib            7b Sd,   / 196
To Ar-sdae 'v5 Pr
Pat *M.                                             0   O   ion        200      3000
LDECEMBER 1969IBD24






MAP 9
rPalo  ProCearJ    S AO  PAU  LO                      SECOND                       ~BRAZIL
x/   T sompclo.     Pt. oC-         S A O    P A U L O                                 SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
30                       s J..                     to In                                 Pt.. Al-ood.                                                STATE  OF PARANA
i % - l *sON.. Londrino                                                  t                                                               1 / t 1 doSmP.o  Paved roads
-A;                                                                                                        ...... Roads grade constructed to final engineering
Loando                     '#                                                                                                                   standards
Po                                                                       CAMBAR                                     Unpaved roads
C)                   PARAh  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*--- -- Roads onder construction
o  oU.p'I.                                          h                     -I- -f- -s-- Planned roaids
'0< +           ,R                                                                                                Pi.; o                          A       DNER field D VaiTtenace headquarters
Al                                                                                *                              I om  Pt,~                                                         DER field maintenance headquoarters
4                             ELO~~~~~~~~NDRN  Oso      o.hHIGHWAYS INCLUDED IN THE FIRST PROJECT
7'                           MARIN                                            N Ft..                                              -          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~For conaftrution anallor paving
4  JANDOIS  OPUCAROSO    ~~~         conaoiAo~~                  Tdoaa        HIGHWAYS INCLUDED IN THE SECOND PROJECT
0  Toledo~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  eaie  niern
S  A  N  T  A\ I+ lVC   A   T  A  R  I N  A.
DECEMBER  1969                                                                                                                                                              U                  nternatio18RD -274n6






q   AR~AGETINA
,~ ~~      ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;Ce   %/FPF4$AC
''      7 <   0   /   WX   >   W   p ?~~U
m               9      f
:<~~~~~~






MAP  I
&     -'\.R  ^ t  Xs                             W                      W/ at              c
ORAZIL~ ~~~~~~7~ >                                 2! r  JS$
A,,
Poe ea rod                                                           r               Al f
--_-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a Rod underr roscutrn.-a t '/
+++ | Plonnsd roods                                 9t fi 4/2t    Jl Xf 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.  hainar.
*  E  il ainccacTE  JadqoraorO                                                   Sa SJ J                            S.t L5O   O 
HIGHWAYS                                           INLUE IN THFIST ROJ                              E         C Af        /' *
___.  Fo  metle  Aern                                                         j2_
C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
-~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HD Z741STNc
SECONDE HIHA9CNTUCINPRJC
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Paoea roada ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   t
. Roadsgradeconotuotnoto dm0 engireerlsg stndard
Unpaved roads~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SECOND  ~HIGHWAYS ICOE NSTRUCTIRST  PROJECT
HIAHWAYS RIOCUE IRNDTE SEON PROEC
Fo,dtaled  an.0d ig                                                                                                 ooon
P .--Intra-da oudr
DECEMBER 1H69 ~   DE  RiHdO- 2..meh.dq.. I



