Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1 644
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BRAZIL SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 676-BR)
June 21, 1977
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted dibution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offichl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BRAZIL SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 676-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
HIGHLIGRTS
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.   Background                                               1
II.   Project Composition and Results                          1
III.   Main Issues                                              3
IV.   Conclusions                                              7
ANNEX
Expected and Re-estimated Rates of Return
ATTACHMENT: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.   Introduction                                             A.1
II.   Project Preparation                                      A.1
III.   Project Implementation and Costs                         A.2
IV.   Economic Reevaluation                                    A.5
V.   Performance of Borrower                                  A.7
VI.   Role of the Bank                                         A.9
VII.   Conclusions                                              A.10
TABLES
1.   Final Status of Construction and Paving Work
2.   Final Status of Improvement and Paving Work
3.   Final Status of Feasibility Studies
4.   Final Status of Detailed Engineering
5.   Estimates of Appraisal vs Completion Rates of Return
6.   Appraisal Estimates vs Actual Costs
7.   Appraisal Estimates vs Actual Traffic Counts
FIGURES
1.   Comparison of Scheduled and Actual Contract Periods
2.   Unit Cost of Lots
Thi document hk a mrtricted distribution and may be eb rbeipient. only in the pefforncme
of their official dutie. Its contents mny not otbhwie b disbled without Wol lak authoriaion.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)        - 2 -
ANNEX
1.   Second Plan of Action - Implementation
MAP
Brazil Second Highway Construction Project - National Highway
Network 1969



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BRAZIL SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 676-BR)
PREFACE
This report presents a performance audit of the Brazil Second
Highway Project, for which Loan 676-BR in the amount of US$100 million
was closed, fully disbursed, in September 1975. The memorandum is based
on the attached Project Completion Report (PCR) prepared by the Bank's
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office, discussions with Bank staff
and review of project files and Minutes of the Board of Executive Directors'
meeting which considered the loan. The memorandum also draws on the find-
ings of the Project Performance Audit Report on the Brazil First Highway
Project (SecM76-89) which contains a detailed assessment of the institu-
tional build-up of the sector in the period 1969-75.
On that basis, under OED's abbreviated review procedures, the audit
accepts most of the conclusions of the PCR. However, it also expands on the
reasons for cost overruns in civil works, on the effect of underestimation of
traffic growth at appraisal and on the institutional ahievements of the project.
No mission by OED staff was made in connection with this performance
audit report.






PROJECT PZFORMANCE AUDIT BASIC DATA SHEET
BRAZIL SEC(ND HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 676-BR)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal                Actual or
Item                                           Expectation            Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                              255.1                    260.1
Underrun or Overrun (%)                                                               2
Loan/Credit Amount (U5$ million)                                                       100
Disbursed       )                                            -                      100
Cancelled
Repaid to       ) Jan. 31, 1977                                                       5.5
Outstanding to ) Jan. 31, 1977                               -                       94.5
Date Physical Components Coupleted                         March 1973                   8/76
Preportion Comleted by Above Date (%)                          66                      100
Proportion of Time Underrun or Overrun ()                       -                      122
Economic Rate of Return (%)W                                   27                       36L2
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                                    Actual or
Item                             Plan             Revisions                Est. Actual
First Mention in Files or Timetable           -                  -                        2/12/68
Government's Application                      -                  -                          -
Negotiations                                  -                  -                        2/18/70
Board Approval                                -                  -                        3/31/70
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                    -                  -                        5/25/70
Effectiveness Date                          8/31/70              -                       12/21/70
Closing Date                                77SI/7Li             -                        7/31/75
Borrower                                                      Federal Republic of Brazil
Executing Agency                                              DNER
Fiscal Year of Borrower                                       January 1 to December 31
Follow-on Project Name                                        Third Highway Project
Loan/Credit Number                                         813-BR
Amount (US$ million)                                       89
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                                April 11, 1972
MISSICON DATA Z
Month,         No. of           No. of                          Date of
Item          Year          Weeks            Persons         Manweeks        Report
Identification           10/68           3,0               3               9.0            1/14/69
Preparation               3/69            3.0               2              6.0             4/8/69
Preappraisal              6/69            2.0               2              4-.            7/10/69
Appraisal                 9/69            6;o               3             18.0            3/12/70
Total                /9v0                             3U/17
Supervision I           6-7/70            5.0               2             10.0           7/27/qO
Supervision II        11-12/70            5.0               2             10.0          12/23/70
Supervision III         5-6/71            5.0               2             10.0           7/28/71
Supervision IV        11-12/71            6.0              3              18.0            2/7/72
Supervision V             5/72            3.0               1              3.0           6/14/72
Supervision VI            1A/7N2          0.5               1              0.5            8/2/72
Supervision VII       10-11/72            1.0               2              2.0          12/26/72
Supervision VIII        3-4/73            4.o               3             12.0           5/17/73
Supervision IX            9/73            3.0               3              9.0           11/9/73
Supervision X             2/74            1.0               3              3.o           4/12/74
Supervision XI          1-2/75            1.0               3              3.0            4/1/75
Supervision XII          12/75            3.0              3               9.0
Supervision XIII          6/76            2.o              3               6.0           6/23/76
Completion
Total                                                                  5
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                               Cruzeiro      (Cr$)
Year:
Appraisal Year Average
Intervening Years Average                                 Exchange Rate:        US$1 = 5.00
Cmmpletion Year Average                                                         US$1 = 8.90
/1  wusbtmd a7erage of te          e rate,eof  s t f go read  ..e tA e i I'.ro    w_  * d
Re-estmated using new tnforoatien and     ,,, of tbh appraisal report aanmptlen
as midenss      also apeOrvised, prepared and appraided otb    hig bi y proJecta in
Brasil.






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
BRAZIL SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 676-BR)
HIGHLIGHTS
Loan 676-BR for US$100 million was intended to help finance
a US$255.1 highway project. The project components were construction/
improvement and paving of 2,136 km of main roads as well as detailed
engineering of 2,369 km and feasibilities studies of 3,256 km of main
federal and state roads.
The physical works were completed with a cost overrun of only
6% but after a four-year delay caused mainly by abnormally high rains,
changes in design because of deficient detailed engineering, and lack
of capacity of certain contractors to perform the work. Despite the
cost overrun and delays, the audit re-estimate of the rate of return
is higher than the appraisal forecast (36% as against 27%) mainly
because of much higher than expected traffic growth. There were no
delays in completion of the pre-investment studies, but there were
delays in their approval by the Government which lacked enough staff
to adequately supervise them.
The following points may be of particular interest:
Deficient detailed engineering (paras. 12, 14, and 24 and PCR,
paras. 3.06 and 7.01)
Dangers of unduly conservative traffic growth forecasts (paras.
15-17 and PCR, paras. 4.05-4.06)
Difficulties in solving transport sector issues because they
are related to broader economic policy issues (paras. 20-21
and 26)
Valuable experience gained by local consultants and contractors
(PCR, para. 3.11 and 6.02-6.03 and 7.02).






PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
BRAZIL SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 676-BR)
I. Background
1.        The Bank's substantial involvement with the Brazilian transport
sector dates back to 1965. Since that year the Bank has granted loans for
highways, railways and ports for a total amount of US$772 million. Bank
participation in the sector has been linked with substantial efforts to
develop adequate planning, improve transport policy and build up the capa-
bility of transport agencies in general. Between 1966 and 1969 the Bank
was directly involved in the financing and supervision of a comprehensive
Transport Survey which, with some revisions made between 1972 and 1974,
has served as the basic guide for Bank lending operations and general policy
development in the sector.
2.        In the highway sector, six loans totalling US$431 million have
supported the construction and improvement of 5,446 km of federal and state
roads, paving of 5,710 km of such roads, final engineering design for 8,084
km, feasibility studies for 7,818 km, and a program of construction and
improvement of secondary and feeder roads. In its lending program, the Bank
has included funds for consulting services in the areas of transport planning
and supervision of construction as well as for strengthening of highway
maintenance. The Second Highway Project was conceived together with the first
one to finance roads whose design was not ready at the time the First Highway
Project was discussed. In addition, the Second Highway Project included
financing for feasibility and engineering of road sections to be financed in
the Third and Fourth Highway Projects.
II. Project Composition and Results
3.        The Second Highway Project (Loan 676-BR) for US$100 million
financed a project with a total estimated cost of US$255.1 million (PCR,
para. 2.02). The project included construction or improvement and paving
of 2,136 km, detailed engineering of 2,369 km and feasibility studies of
3,256 km of main federal and state roads. In addition, the project financed
consulting services to strengthen the planning and supervisory capacity of
the Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem (DNER). Appraisal was
made in September-October 1969, and the loan was approved by the Execu-
tive Directors in May 1970. In addition to covenants about the perfor-
mance of the highway sector, the loan agreement also included a Plan of
Action about general transport policy and measures to improve railway
and port operations and finances. The nature of this plan and the achieve-
ments in the project period are further discussed in Section III.
4.        The loan became effective only in December 1970, about four
months later than expected. This delay was due to problems in reaching
agreements with the states responsible for the construction of state



highways; they occurred in spite of early Bank recommendations to ac-
celerate these a eements, which had also delayed effectiveness of the First
Highway Project._ This delay caused postponement of contract signa-
ture and initiation of work on state highways until March-April 1971.
5.        Bids for civil works were below the final engineering study
estimates and total contracts price was 20% lower than the appraisal es-
timate without contingencies. Nevertheless, several problems arose lead-
ing to final costs of civil works being 44% above the cost of the original
contracts and about 6% above the appraisal estimate (including contingen-
cies) (PCR, paras. 3.04-3.07). Reasons for the cost overrun are further
discussed in Section III. As a result of savings in feasibility and final
engineering studies, the project as a whole had only a 2% cost overrun.
6.        Only five construction lots (9% of the total number of lots)
were completed on schedule. Another 38 lots (70% of the total number of
lots) were completed with delays ranging from 1 to 12 months. The re-
maining 12 lots (21% of the total number of lots) were completed after
delays ranging from I to 4 years. The main reasons for the delays were:
(a) abnormally high rains during 1971 and 1972, es-
pecially in three southern states;
(b) need to introduce changes in the specification of
certain works;
(c) lack of capacity of certain contractors to perform
the work which caused cancellation of certain con-
tracts; and
(d) delays in the hiring of new contractors due to
problems with tenders and unit prices.
With the exception of two roads where asphalt pavement failures were ex-
perienced, the quality of construction work was generally satisfactory
(see PCR, para. 3.09).
7.        Specific roads financed by this project were selected from the
Highway Master Plan which the Bank had helped to prepare. Benefits were
estimated on the basis of reductions in vehicle operating costs for nor-
mal and diverted traffic, economic impact of generated traffic and savings
in highway maintenance costs. The expected rates of return ranged from 17'.'
to 477. for different road sections with an overall weighted average of abo._-:
27%.  The PCR did not recalculate the rates of return, however, based on a
comparison of the actual and expected construction cost and traffic (PCR,
paras. 4.02-4.03), it concluded that: for 14 sections, the rates of return
are higher than expected; for 2 sections, they are lower but still satis-
factory; and for the remaining section (about 8% of the actual project cost)
I/   Project Performance Audit Report on the Brazil First H1ighwayr Project
(SecM76-89).



- 3 -
the change in the rate of return cannot be determined because traffic
data are lacking. This result was confirmed by a recalculation of the
rates of return by OED using the new information available on construc-
tion costs and traffic as well as some of the appraisal assumptions.
The range of the audit re-estimate of the rates of return is between 11%
and 75% for different road sections, with an overall weighted average of
about 36% (Annex). The main reason explaining the higher rates of return
is that much higher than expected traffic growth has more than offset
construction cost overruns (PCR, para. 4.03).
8.        The actual cost of feasibility and final engineering studies was
well below the appraisal estimate. There was a total saving of US$13.8
million, approximately 44% of the original estimate. There were, in general,
no delays in completion. Time allowed for these studies was on the average
eight months, for both feasibility and engineering studies. There were never-
theless delays in the anproval of these studies by DNER since many of them
were not adequate and had to be revised by the consultants. The time a]4 owed
for the studies was too short. Moreover, DNER did not have enough staff to
properly supervise such a large program of studies. In 1973, DNER hired a
national consulting firm to supervise the quality of the feasibility and
engineering work being done by consultants. This has helped to substan-
tially improve the situation.
9.        The performance of the national consultants contracted for super-
vising civil works was generally adequate. The engineering consultants,
INGEROUTE (France), hired to improve DNER capability in this area, produced
a very positive impact on improving the level of technical expertise of
DNER. The consultants, TRANSPLAN (Brazil) and SYSTAN (USA), hired for re-
inforcing the Planning Department also performed successfully.
III. Main Issues
Cost Overruns in Civil Works
10.       The estimated, contractual and final costs of civil works are
summarized in the following table:
Final Costs
Appraisal     Appraisal                           % Difference   % Difference
Estimate      Estimate       Original                 from             from
Without        With         Contract             Appraisal With     Original
Contingencies  Contingencies   Amounts   Total       Contingencies    Contracts
--------------- (US$ million) ---------------
Construction       100.0          110.0        78.07    113.36           3.1            45.2
Improvement         93.2          102.2        77.00    110.62          8.2             43.7
Total        193.2           212.2       155.07    223.98          5.6             44.4



- 4 -
The total cost overrun with respect to the appraisal estimate including con-
tingencies is reasonably small, being 5.6%. Nevertheless, there is a sub-
stantial overrun in the final cost with respect to the original contract
amount, and this poses some interesting questions. In spite of the fact
that bids turned out to be much lower than estimates made at appraisal,
quantity changes and the need to recontract certain lots at higher unit
prices than those quoted in the original bids produced increases in total
costs above appraisal estimates.
11.       The distribution of lots according to the percentage increase
over contracts is as follows:
Actual Contract Price                                 Total Construction Cost
Compared with Original              Number of         Difference with Original
Contract Price                    Lots                   Contract
---- (US$ millions) ----
Smaller                                4                      (0.326)
From equal to 10% higher              11                       1.491
10.1% to 20% higher                    8                       2.457
20.1% to 40% higher                   19                      19.294
40.1% to 80% higher                    6                      13.288
Over 80.1% higher                      7                      32.645
Total                            55                      68.849
It can be seen that most of the overrun is due to a few lots that had
substantial problems. In the First Highway Project there were also cost
overruns over the original contracts but they were smaller, 21% on the
average, and they did not in any instance reach the very large amounts
experienced in some lots for this project.
12.       One main reason for the overrun above original contracts in
this project was deficient engineering in several lots for which changes
'r  U St 'y 'i- lhe original specifications.       Insufficient hydrologi-
ta'._ b logicai investigations at the engineering stage resulted in
;on of excavated materials and in the need to flatten
des.gned excavation slopes, widen shoulders, increase drainage and gen-
eraliv modify design quantities. It was also necessary in some cases
[-o ~ch-nge- the alignment of the road. It can be estimated that about 50%
of the increase in cost resulting from physical changes with respect to
the original estimates was due to additional earthwork, 17% to additional
pav ement work, L2% to additional work regarding drainage and culverts,



and the remaining 21% to miscellaneous works. In several cases the
changes in physical quantities produced overruns above 40%, which is the
maximum increase for which the original construction contracts remain
valid in Brazil.
13.       Problems faced in the construction, mostly due to the deficient
original engineering but also to the lack of capacity of certain contrac-
tors to perform the work, led to the need to recontract seven lots. In
most cases the new contracts were at higher unit prices. Forty-seven percent
of the total cost increase over the original contract amounts in this project
occurred in the seven lots recontracted, which in general were also the ones
which took more time to complete.
14.       One reason for the deficient engineering in certain lots could
be that these constituted the first set of roads whose final engineering
study was prepared by Brazilian consulting firms. Apparently some of the
firms lacked sufficient experience to do an adequate design. This was
however only part of the explanation because, on the other hand, one of
the lots on which more problems were faced was designed by a joint venture
between a Brazilian and an experienced foreign firm, Berger (USA). A more
important factor was probably the lack of staff at DNER to closely super-
vise the work performed by the firms in charge of design, ai factor which
was corrected later. Moreover, the time allowed for the engineering
studies was too short for adequate research, analysis and discussion of
the proposed solutions. Nevertheless, it should also be mentioned that
a substantial proportion of the lots did not present important problems
regarding design and were completed with small delays and cost overruns
which are within normal expectations for this type of project.
Underestimation of Traffic Growth
15.       As shown in Table 7 of the PCR, out of the 17 road sections
financed with this loan, 15 had actual traffic in the opening years above
the appraisal estimate (for one there are no counts available). The
difference is on the average 73%, and is well above 100% in three cases.
In this regard it is interesting to stress the role played by traffic
forecasts in highway project preparation.
16.       Traffic projections play a critical role in the selection of
highway projects since, together with costs of improvement, they are the
essential factors in determining the priority and timing of the improvements.
It may be argued that a general underestimate of the rate of growth in
traffic, when the estimated rate is relatively high and there are more
economically justified projects than can be implemented considering bud-
getary and capacity constraints, does not produce important distortions
in the selection of projects. A more conservative approach regarding the
estimated future traffic may be therefore consistent with a safer attitude
regarding project selection so as to avoid mistakes. But this approach
is, in the case of highways, questionable considering the effect that
traffic projections have on the physical design of the highway.



- 6 -
17.       In the particular case of this project, the use of higher traf-
fic estimates would have probably had little influence on the selected
alignment of the roads since all of them were designed as Class I roads;
but it should have modified the pavement design, to provide pavement thick-
ness adequate for the higher traffic levels. The thicker pavement, as
mentioned in the PCR (para. 4.06), would probably have added very little
to the costs, no more than 5%, but may have avoided an earlier second
stage strengthening of the pavement or earlier rehabilitation, with a pre-
sent value much higher than the 5% mentioned. This earlier work will now
be necessary. In short, excessively conservative assumptions regarding
traffic may seem attractive for project selection but may produce, as in
this case, costly consequences.
Institutional Achievements
18.       Bank operations in the Brazil highway sector have been linked to
the achievement of broad goals regarding transport policy in general and
the institutional build-up not only of highway agencies but also of the
agencies dealing with railways, ports and general transport coordination.
Plans of Action, covenants and letters of intent in specific loans are
tied up with those of previous and subsequent loans. For this reason, it
is necessary to look at institutional achievements not so much in the con-
text of one particular loan but in the broader perspective of the Bank's
lending to the Brazilian transport sector over a period of time.
19.       The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) on the Brazil First
Highway Project (SecM76-89) contained a detailed assessment of achieve-
ments and shortcomings related to transport policy and institutional im-
provement in the sector as of mid-1975. The conclusion was that signifi-
cant progress had been made in the reorganization and strengthening of the
major transport agencies. Planning had improved substantially as a result
of the preparation of a Transport Master Plan and the development of fea-
sibility and final engineering studies before construction. Nevertheless,
some important problems requiring further attention were detected. Trans-
port coordination was still weak and not properly institutionalized. There
was still a lack of clearly defined planning processes assuring continuity
of the planning work. There was some confusion regarding user charges and,
in spite of increases of funds for highway maintenance, resources for this
purpose were still insufficient. One major deficiency was the heavy re-
liance on consultants as a result of inadequate personnel policies in the
public sector. A key conclusion was that unless personnel problems were
dealt with aggressively, advances made in the past could be lost.
20.       Since the completion of the PPAR on the First Highway Project,
little progress has been made in solving most of the problems related to
general transport policy. Moreover, there is an apparent loss of interest
in the issues of general transport policy on the part of the Bank. There
is a change from the broader sectoral outlook of the 1960s toward a more
project-oriented outlook. Since 1972 the Bank has not sent a mission to
prepare an overall review of the sector as a whole. In the meantime,



- 7 -
transport coordination, which presented problems at the time of the last
audit, has not improved. GEIPOT, which was basically established for
that purpose, has been a failure in this regard (see PCR, para. 5.03).
A study of highway user charges, which was supposed to be undertaken as
part of the Fifth Highway Project, has not been carried out; and in spite
of much more attention being paid to maintenance, lack of funds for this
purpose continues to be an important problem. Outside of improvements
made lately in railway planning, mainly as a result of the Third Railway
Project, the sector and the transport agencies still lack clearly defined
planning processes assuring the continuity of the planning work and the
adaptation of plans to changing economic situation. Finally, the inade-
quate personnel policies limiting the possibilities for a lasting build-
up of transport agencies have not changed.
21.       Most of the above-mentioned problems are complex and difficult
to solve. They are generally tied up with broader economic and social
problems affecting Brazil as a whole. The problem of transport coordina-
tion and GEIPOT has been tied to the inability of the Government to pay
competitive salaries. This same inability affects the performance of
other transport agencies in planning and other fields. The question of
user charges and resources for maintenance, excluding the conceptual tech-
nicalities that have never been agreed upon, is also basically a problem
of general government fiscal policy, outside the bounds of the transport
sector. This may explain why interest in the solution of these problems
on the part of people dealing with the transport sector has been lost.
In the circumstances, it would appear necessary for the Bank to pursue
these issues with the Government in the broader context of economic policy
discussions.
22.       In the past, one of the Bank's main contributions to the im-
provement of the sector has been the continuity it has provided in stress-
ing policy objectives to changing government executives. Small but con-
sistent improvements in sensitive areas have been obtained as a result.
Too large a concentration of specific project problems and a weakening
concern with the larger sectoral problems may lead to the loss of this
quite important benefit of Bank financing in the sector.
IV. Conclusions
23.       The project has been successfully completed and the technical
quality of the finished work is generally good. The construction cost
overrun was only 6% despite a delay of about four years in the comple-
tion of the project. The economic return on the investment is better
than that expected at appraisal, mainly as a result of higher than ex-
pected traffic.
24.       The experience of this project with regard to problems faced
in construction suggests that time gained in project preparation through



- 8 -
rapid conclusion of final engineering may later produce quite substantial
delays in project completion and important problems in construction, lead-
ing to cost overruns. In particular, it is important to provide time for
adequate hydrological and geological research. Moreover, there should be
adequate staff to supervise and control the work of the engineering con-
sultants. The experience of this project also points to the dangers of
unduly conservative traffic growth estimates especially from the viewpoint
of pavement design.
25.       From an institutional viewpoint, the project made important con-
tributions in improving the capacity of DNER and Brazilian consultants in
planning, design and construction supervision practices. From a wider in-
stitutional viewpoint, the contribution of this project should be examined
in the broad context of the Bank's several lending operations to the Bra-
zilian transport sector, on which detailed comment was provided in the PPAR
for the First Highway Project (SecM76-89, February 1976). According to
that report, this contribution has been positive in general.
26.       Since the completion of that PPAR, which evaluated the institu-
tional situation as of mid-1975, little progress has been made in solving
some important problems identified at that time; these relate to planning,
coordination, user charges, resources for highway maintenance and personnel
policies in the public sector. There is, at the same time, an apparent
shift in the Bank from its earlier broad concern with general transport
policy towards a more project-oriented approach. Some of the critical
policy problems in the transport sector are difficult to resolve with a
purely sectoral approach since they are related to broader economic policy
issues; this may explain the lack of success in solving them in the past.
Nevertheless, the sectoral approach remains important to provide continuity
on policy objectives and could be usefully reinforced by an effective dia-
logue on the Government's broader policies which also have a bearing on ob-
jectives in this sector.



ANNEX
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
BRAZIL SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 676-BR)
Expected and Re-estimated Rates of Return
Rates of Return
Road No.         Road Section           Expected    Re-estimated
_  _  _  _ _  _ _  ( -/0-)
BR-222       Piripiri-Sobral               21         35
BR-324       Salvador-F. Sta. Ana
Section I                44         52
Section II               32         51
BR-101       Jct. BR-324-Rio Preto         30         38
BR-101       Rio Preto-Rio Pardo           22         23
BR-101       Rio Pardo-Itamaraju           19         11
BR-101       P. Canario-Linhares           42         52
BR-101       Rio Bonito-Fzda. dos 40       20         31
BR-135       Corinto-Bocaiuva              18         31
BR-365       Ituitaba-C.S. Simao           47         75
BR-354       Lagoa Formosa-BR-262          23         32
BR-452       Itumbiara-Rio Verde           37         70
BR-470       Campos Novos-BR-116           35         45
BR-158       S. Maria-J. Castilhos         25         33
RS-038/011   C. do Sul-Mucum               17         15
RS-003       P. Mariente-S.C. do Sul       18         40






ATTACHMENT
BRAZIL
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT (LOAN 676-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Substantial Bank involvement in the Brazilian transport sector dates
to 1964 when an economic mission was asked to place special emphasis on that
sector. As a result of the mission's recommendations, a national transport
survey was initiated. Since then, loans totalling US$772.0 million have been
approved by the Bank for five highway projects, a secondary and feeder roads
project, a ports project and three railway projects.
1.02      The Brazil Transport Survey, phase I of which was partially financed
with a US$1.5 million Bank grant, had a significant impact on the evolution
and development of the Brazilian transport sector. The First Highway Project
(Loan 567-BR), approved in October 1968, was based almost entirely on the
findings and recommendations of phase I of the Survey; the Second Highway
Project was also based largely on the recommendations of the study. As a
condition for the approval of the First Highway Project, the Government agreed
to carry out a Plan of Action to improve the organization, investment planning
and financing, and pricing and regulation of the transportation sector; that
Plan was satisfactorily implemented (see OED Performance Audit Report on the
First Highway Project).
II. PROJECT PREPARATION
2.01      Prior to negotiating the Second Highway Project, the Government sub-
mitted to the Bank a second Plan of Action, outlining further measures to
bring about improvements in the transport sector. The second Plan of Action
and the Transport Survey recommendations formed a suitable basis for the for-
mulation of the project.
2.02      The project consisted of:
(i)  Civil Works
(a) construction and paving of eight sections, totalling 870 km.
of primary and secondary highways;
(b) improvement and paving of 1,266 km of primary highways;
(ii) Consulting Services:
(c) detailed engineering and supervision of construction,
improvement and paving of highway BR-324 in the State of
Bahia (108 km);
(d) supervision of construction of works in items (a) and (b)
above, excluding highway BR-324;



- A.2 -
(e)  detailed engineering studies for about 2,369 km of
highways;
(f) feasibility studies for 18 roads, totalling about 3,256 km
of highways, in eleven states; and
(iii) Technical Assistance:
(g) to the National Highways Department (DNER) to:
- strengthen DNER's planning department, and
- improve DNER's methods and procedures for construction
supervision.
IBRD Map 2739R shows the location of the various project civil works elements.
2.03      The Bank's participation in the civil works was 40% of construction
costs (items (a) and (b) above); it was also 40% of the cost of consulting ser-
vices for supervision of construction (item (d)), preparation of detailed engi-
neering studies (item (e)), and preparation of feasibility studies (item (f)).
It was 70% of the consulting services provided directly to DNER (item (g)),
but, for detailed engineering (retroactively financed) and supervision of coE-
struction, improvement and paving of highway BR-324 (item (c)), it was 35%.
Foreign consultants were employed for this last road, and the participation
covered their direct foreign exchange costs only. Contracts were let on the
basis of international competitive bidding according to Bank Guidelines.
2.04      About 50%, by length, of the roads constructed and/or improved were
located in the undeveloped northeast of the country, and the roads included
for feasibility study emphasized the development of Brazil's western region
where the main barrier to development had been the lack of transportation
facilities.
2.05      DNER was responsible for project work on federal highways.    The
respective State Highway Departments (DERs) assumed responsibility for work
on their state and the federal highways delegated to them. Because of poor
initial performance in Santa Catarina, DNER,with the Bank's concurrence,
administered the projects in that state which were rebid. The Loan was made
to the Government of Brazil, and DNER was the executing agency.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COSTS
3.01      The Loan became effective on December 21, 1970, about seven months
after signature. The delay was caused by tardiness in ratifying Subsidiary
Agreements between DNER and the states which were to be responsible for the
execution of the civil works on state and delegated federal highways. The
project was not affected by the delay in loan effectiveness.



- A.3 -
Civil Works
3.02      All civil works were widely advertised for international competitive
bidding; 106 Brazilian firms and Brazilian joint ventures, one foreign firm
and a Brazilian-foreign joint venture were prequalified. Ninety-two firms
presented 965 proposals for the various lots and combinations of lots. Bids
were opened publicly on September 21, 1970. Speculative bids with too low
unit prices were discarded, and awards to other than the lowest evaluated
bidder were made only to achieve the lowest total award consistent with con-
straints imposed by the bidder's technical and financial capacities. The
52 contracts awarded amounted to about US$155 million, 11% below the design
estimate. Twenty-two of the awards went to the lowest bidders, and the capac-
ity criteria mentioned above dictated the award of the 30 remaining contracts;
had there been no capacity constraints, the total award would have been about
5% lower. No foreign firm was successful in the bidding. Most contracts were
signed in November 1970, but some--especially those with DERs--were delayed.
The last contract was signed in April 1971.
3.03      Except for highway BR-324, supervision of the civil works was carried
out by Brazilian consultants. The 15 firms selected for supervision had pre-
viously carried out the detailed engineering for the corresponding sections.
INGEROUTE (France) was retained by DNER to establish appropriate supervision
procedures within DNER and for the consultants. Five experienced engineers
formed the INGEROUTE team, and four of them continued to oversee the super-
vision of civil works financed under the Third, Fourth and Fifth Highway
Projects.
3.04      The final cost of the civil works was US$224.0 million, about 51
above the appraisal estimate (including contingencies), but 44% above the
original contract amount. Cost overruns were experienced on five of the nine
roads for improvement and paving works but on only one of the eight roads for
construction and paving works. On six roads, the final cost was below the
appraisal estimate. Supervision costs (excluding INGEROUTE's coordination
input) amounted to 10% of the construction cost against the appraisal estimate
of 7%. This increase was entirely due to extensions in the construction
periods.
3.05      The main causes for cost overruns in the civil works were increases
in earthwork quantities and, on some roads, increases in drainage and pavement
works. The various reasons for increases included (i) flattening of designed
excavation slopes, (ii) incorrect design quantities, (iii) wrong classifica-
tion of excavated material, (iv) alignment improvements, (v) shoulder widening,
(vi) substitution of existing culverts where found unsuitable, and (vii) im-
provement in road drainage.
3.06      Nearly all the overruns can be attributed to insufficient hydro-
logical and geotechnical investigations at the engineering stage. Tbo often,
insufficient time was allowed for consultants to carry out thorough site in-
vestigation. In the execution of the feasibility and detailed engineering



- A.4 -
studies financed under the Loan, Bank missions had to insist that DNER allow
more time for this work.
3.07      By the end of 1973, when all construction works should have been
completed, six contracts were still substantially behind schedule. Of the
six, four lots were rebid due to poor performance by the contractors and two
lots were rebid because costs had reached 140% of the original contract amount
(in Brazil, a contractor has the right to refuse extra work beyond this
figure). Two of the rebid contracts, on road BR-470 in Santa Catarina, pro-
gressed very slowly because awards had been made to a contractor with insuffi-
cient capacity. However, these were finally completed in August 1976, two
years beyond the contract period. Figure 1 shows the scheduled and actual
contract periods for all the civil works.
3.08      In light of the poor experience encountered with some of the con-
tracts, the Bank called for a stricter analysis of contractor's capacity.
Good progress on the Fifth Highway Project, where no firm was awarded more
than one lot, has justified this action.
3.09      The quality of construction work was generally satisfactory.    Con-
crete quality was poor at the beginning; however, once contractors and super-
visors became familiar with the specifications--more rigid than those pre-
viously used in Brazil--the problems were resolved. Asphalt pavement failures
were experienced on only two roads: BR-158 in Rio Grande do Sul and BR-101 in
Bahia. On BR-158, the pavement was later strengthened with an overlay (with-
out Bank financing). On the four lots of BR-101, investigations were made by
DNER into the cause and responsibilities for the failures. Unfortunately,
while these investigations were going on, the repair work was not carried out,
and the condition of the road worsened considerably. The Bank has urged DNER
to take action on the problem, but as yet no decisions have been made.
3.10      The final status of (i) the construction and paving and (ii) the
improvement and paving works is given in Tables 1 and 2 respectively. The
average construction cost of the former was US$130,000 per km and the latter
US$87,000 per km (1972-1973). Considering the unstable terrain conditions
that were often encountered, these costs are reasonable. Figure 2 gives the
rate of construction against the cost per kilometer, indicating regions where
the work was performed. The figure clearly shows that in the sountainous and
high-rainfall (1971 was exceptionally wet) areas of the southern regions and
Bahia, the unit costs were higher and construction progress was slower than
in the less rugged terrain of the central States and the Northeast.
3.11      The experience gained through the Second Highway Project by
Brazilian consultants and contractors and by the National Highways Department
(DNER) was notable. This has been demonstrated in the performance of later
projects, particularly the more recent Fifth Highway Project, under which
execution is more efficient and quality of works is better. DNER tightened
up its procedures for awarding contracts, and fewer contract failures have



- A.5 -
occurred. Furthermore, because of DNER's tighter specifications and control,
a stronger and more capable highway contracting industry and better consul-
tants are now available in Brazil.
Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
3.12      Feasibility studies were carried out for 3,256 km of federal and
state highways by 11 Brazilian firms and joint ventures (Table 3). Final
engineering for seven of these roads was included in the Third Highway Project,
and four of the roads are being built' under the Fifth Highway Project. De-
tailed engineering in this Second Highway Project covered 2,369 km and was
executed by 16 Brazilian firms and joint ventures (Table 4). Of the 16 proj-
ects, seven were later included for construction in the Third Highway Project
and six in the Fourth Highway Project.
3.13      In general, the contract periods established for the studies and
engineering were too short for good, thorough work to be done. Through Bank
insistence, extensions were given for most of the contracts. The cost of
these projects amounted to about US$10.9 million (averaging US$9,500 per km
for feasibility studies and US$2,500 per km for detailed engineering), which
was 36% below the appraisal estimate.
3.14      The only notable problem regarding these studies involved the final
alignment selected by the consultants for the 200-km Rio de Janeiro-Juiz de
Fora feasibility study. The construction and upgrading of 141 km of this
road is being financed under the Fifth Highway Project, and, during construc-
tion, new alignments have been studied for three sections, totalling about 43
kilometers. These have proved to be technically superior and more economical
than those of the original feasibility study alignment and have been approved
by the Bank.
IV. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
4.01      The project was justified on the basis of quantifiable benefits
accruing from road user savings stemming from lower vehicle operating costs
and reductions in the distance travelled. In the case of BR-324, which in-
cludes the northern access to Salvador in Bahia state and has an urban charac-
ter, benefits were also projected for user time savings and reduced congestion.
Additionally, benefits were assessed for the difference in maintenance costs
of the new highways vis-a-vis the earth and gravel roads which existed before
the project was undertaken. During appraisal, the best estimates of the econ-
omic rates of return of the subprojects ranged between 17% and 47% (Table 5).
A sensitivity analysis of the rate of return was made, and upper and lower
limits for the rate were calculated, the lowest lower limit being 12% and the
highest higher limit being above 50%.
4.02      On completion of the project, comparing the actual final costs of
each of the 17 subprojects and the traffic counts in the opening year of the



- A.6 -
new highways with those estimated during appraisal (Tables 6 and 7), it is
evident that, for all subprojects except two (BR-101, Rio Pardo-Itamaraju and
RS-11/38, Cruzeiro do Sul-Mucum) the best estimate of the rate of return has
been surpassed. For 10 of the 17 subprojects, the estimated upper limit of
the rate of return is likely to have been exceeded (Table 5).
4.03      Several factors explain the higher than expected returns:    in all
but one of the subprojects, traffic growth was far beyond appraisal estimates;
in seven of the 17 subprojects, costs were below appraisal estimates; of the
remaining 10 subprojects, for which costs were higher than anticipated, seven
showed traffic increases which had an effect on the rate of return far in ex-
cess of that due to cost increase--on one, no traffic counts have been carried
out; and the other two are BR-101 and RS-11/38, already mentioned. On BR-101
(Rio Pardo-Itamaraju), costs were only slightly higher than estimated (3.5%)
but traffic was, for undetermined reasons, significantly below the appraisal
estimates (39.3%), generating an estimated rate of return on completion below
the lower limit estimated at appraisal. This lower limit was 13% and based on
costs being 10% above the best estimate and benefits being 10% below the best
estimate; the significantly lower benefits, on account of the lower traffic,
are therefore responsible for the lower re-estimate of the rate of return of
this subproject. On RS-11/38, the cost overrun (24.5%) was significantly
higher than the increase in traffic (13.7%), putting the estimated rate of
return at completion between the lower limit and the best estimate of the
rate of return derived at appraisal, i.e., between 12% and 17%.
4.04      A word of caution is warranted regarding the reliability of the
traffic counts. Although the generally high traffic volumes can be closely
associated with the rapid growth of the Brazilian economy after the time the
appraisal was done, some discrepancies have been detected among different
sources. This matter has been brought to the attention of DNER's authorities
and is being investigated and remedied.
4.05      Having questioned the reliability of the traffic counts, it should
also be noted that extremely high traffic growth rates have indeed been exper-
ienced in Brazil between 1972 and 1975 when growth seems to have levelled off.
These rates of growth could not have been accurately foreseen at appraisal
because the agricultural boom that mainly caused the traffic growth was
triggered off in 1970 and 1971 (agricultural production in Brazil has more
than doubled since the late 1960's), and because the growth in traffic did
not manifest itself until 1972, after the appraisal had been completed. In-
formation on these likely developments was not available to the mission becamse
many of the plans that were put into effect in 1970-71 by the new Govern ft
were not structured at the time of the appraisal. Moreover, when the project
was being processed in the Bank, the appraisal mission was criticized for Its
optimistic views on traffic forecasts.
4.06      Supervision missions of the project pointed out later (1971) that
traffic on most of the roads included in the project was growing much faster
than anticipated but, by then, it was impractical to change or modify the de-
signs, particularly for pavements, because most works were well advanced.



- A.7 -
Had the traffic growth rates which actually occurred been foreseen at appraisal,
pavement thicknesses might have been increased slightly and/or the usual second-
stage strengthening operation scheduled earlier. Such modifications would not
have affected project content. Indications are that there were no serious
financial constraints that would have required changes in the project because
of moderate cost increases. The rates of return of the subprojects would,
however, still have been very high because any cost increases due to thicker
pavements should not have been greater than 5% and benefits would have been
substantially increased due to the higher traffic forecasts.
V. PERFORMANCE OF BORROWER
5.01      Implementation and control of the project were discussed at length
during project preparation, and it was decided that the method of implementa-
tion to be adopted should be that which had already been adopted for the First
Highway Project, i.e., the Federal Government (DNER) being responsible for
contracting and supervising that part of the project dealing with federal
roads, with the rest being supervised and contracted by the DERs, including
federal roads delegated to the states. For the purposes of supervising the
execution of civil works and also improving DNER's capabilities in this area,
the project provided for the hiring of foreign consultants. INGEROUTE (France)
was selected to carry out the work. Its performance was very good. INGEROUTE's
advice and collaboration with DNER had a very positive impact on improving the
level of technical expertise of DNER. (INGEROUTE's assistance under the proj-
ect was extended to later projects and continues in the Fifth Highway Project
(Loan 1075-BR).)
5.02      To reinforce DNER's planning department, the project made provision
for the hiring of four foreign and five Brazilian transport experts. The
foreign experts came from SYSTAN (USA) and the Brazilian experts from TRANS-
PLAN; all were integrated into the planning department and addressed themselves
to updating and expanding the Highway Transport Survey and the Master Plans
that followed from it. While financed under the project, the group updated
the Master Plans for the three southern states. The consultants' performance
was good, and, when their contracts expired, DNER negotiated extensions for
both teams to continue the task for the remaining states. Reports for the
three southern states were issued in 1974 and for the remaining states, ex-
cluding Amazonas, in 1975.
5.03      In the area of sector planning, the First Highway Project was instru-
mental in the creation in 1965 of GEIPOT (the Grupo Executivo de Integracao da
Politica de Transportes). GEIPOT's main objectives were to supervise sector
policies, collaborate in the preparation of the Transport Survey and induce,
as well as control, the implementation of the recommendations made in the
Survey. Soon after its creation, however, the institution experienced diffi-
culties in fulfilling its regulatory role, mainly because its institutional
relationship with other transport agencies was not clearly defined. This



Second Highway Project was instrumental in bringing about GEIPOT's reorganiza-
tion, in 1972, to make it more responsive to the analysis of intermodal prob-
lems and to the identification of the interaction between transportation and
the Government's national economic and social policies. This change was neces-
sary because little had been done since 1970 to solve transport sector coor-
dination problems, partly due to GEIPOT's lack of authority. In 1972, GEIPOT's
scope of work was revised and its leadership renewed. However, the role of
GEIPOT as a central agency for transport coordination was never institutional-
ized. In 1973, having failed to gain the central position it sought in the
management of the transport sector, GEIPOT was turned into a state enterprise,
operating as a consulting firm providing services under contract. This arrange-
ment allowed the institution to escape public sector personnel policies and to
pay salaries that attracted better staff; at the same time, however, it denuded
GEIPOT of any power to coordinate and exercise control and, consequently, to
induce action in the areas for which it was created. Signs of poor coordina-
tion in the transport sector are still evident. In this respect, the GEIPOT
exercise may be considered a failure in its intent to achieve improved multi-
modal transport coordination.
5.04      The Loan Agreement required DNER to introduce new technical and
administrative procedures to improve its operation. Brazilian management
consultants (the Getulio Vargas Foundation) were hired to recommend the neces-
sary changes, and, by 1970, a first phase of the reorganization had been im-
plemented, largely along the lines recommended by the Foundation's study.
A second phase, geared to recommend new and more efficient operational pro-
cedures and methods, was developed by the Foundation's analysts; the recom-
mendations were legalized by Decree 68.423 of March 25, 1971 and later put
into practice with assistance from the US Federal Highways Administration.
The Bank's pressure for these reforms can be considered highly successful
and, in retrospect, of benefit to the country.
5.05      In the areas of highway maintenance and the delegation of respon-
sibility for maintenance of federal highways to the State DERs, important
gains were made up to 1971. More recently, the overall progress in these
areas has fallen off, mainly due to: (a) lack of capacity in some of the
state DERs to maintain the federal network delegated to them; (b) the high
expense involved in maintaining some of the roads delegated because of their
poor condition before the transfer; and (c) DNER's lack of funds to pay for
the maintenance carried out by the DERs. As stated in the Plan of Action
agreed with the Bank, pilot maintenance districts had been established in
the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Parana and Minas Gerais
by the end of 1971, and the states of Bahia and Pernambuco were Incorporated
into the system in 1972. In 1973, four additional states agreed to develop
pilot maintenance districts--Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Maranhao and Hato
Grosso--and, by 1974, the maintenance of an important part of the federal
network had been de facto delegated to the states. In early 1973, however,
the difficulties mentioned above regarding the delegations, had been appraised
and remedies had been suggested. These involved, essentially, increased tech-
nical assistance to the DERs and additional financial help, but it was not



- A.9 -
until the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1075-BR) was initiated that the problems
were actually confronted. At the time, the states considered most suited to
receive the help were Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul, and, under a pro-
posed Sixth Highway Project, the program would be expanded to three more
states, probably Bahia, Mato Grosso and Parana.
5.06      A special covenant was included in the Loan Agreement of the Second
Highway Project to ensure enforcement df weight regulations as contained in
Decreto-Ley 117 of 1967. No progress was made in carrying out this covenant,
mainly because the authorities lacked the equipment and physical facilities
to exercise better control. As a result, with the initiation of the Fifth
Highway Project (Loan 1075-BR), a full-scale program for the installation of
weighing stations and enforcement of the law has been started. The Government
is now fully committed to carrying out this program and having the law re-
spected in order to minimize the incidence of overloaded trucks on Brazilian
highways.
5.07      Most of the above actions, conditions and covenants were embodied
in the development of the Second Plan of Action submitted by the Government
prior to the Bank's approval of the project now completed. A summary of this
Plan and its implementaiton is given in Annex 1.
VI. ROLE OF THE BANK
6.01      The Bank was constructively involved in the Project from its incep-
tion as an element of the Transport Study which the Bank had encouraged Brazil
to undertake. This involvement extended through the reorganization and
strengthening of the highway sector administration to the encouragement and
support of the Government and its executing agency, DNER, in the utilization
of Brazilian consultants and construction contractors. The Bank's representa-
tives from both Programs and Projects Departments were able to work effec-
tively and productively with their Brazilian counterparts.
6.02      The Bank's recognition of Brazil's potential competence for the
administration, management and execution of large-scale highway development
projects in the diverse regions making up the country was the key to the
eventual success not only of the Second Highway Project but also of the sub-
sequent projects in which the Bank has participated. Brazilians eventually
accepted the Bank's insistence on enforcement of modern engineering and con-
struction practices, and today this, and other early Bank projects, are looked
upon as landmarks in Brazilian highway engineering development.
6.03      Although some credit can be taken by the Bank for the successful
completion of the physical element of the Project, the Bank's biggest contri-
bution, as well as the most successful, was the institution building in the
construction industry and in DNER and the State Highway Departments.



- A.10 -
VII. CONCLUSIONS
7.01      The Second Highway Project can be considered a success.   Despite
some cost overruns, the road works were generally completed in reasonable time.
The cost overruns were caused mainly by inadequate depth in the engineering
studies, especially in geotechnical i4vestigations, and this can be attributed
to lack of previous experience by the local consulting firms and inadequate
time allowed for execution of the study.
7.02      It is noteworthy that this was the first major roadworks project
carried out in the country entirely by Brazilian firms and under strict Bank-
imposed specifications and quality controls. The benefits of the experience
gained during the execution of the project have been amply demonstrated in the
high quality of later projects. The quality of Brazilian highway engineering
today is comparable to that in any developed country, and very little foreign
expertise is now required.
7.03      Similarly, DNER's capability to administer numerous and large con-
tracts has improved substantially. This is reflected by its very able and
professional performance in subsequent Bank-financed projects.
7.04      All feasibility and engineering studies included in the project
were completed, and many of them were utilized in later Bank-financed projects.
7.05      From an economic point of view, the project appears as highly success-
ful, both in absolute terms and vis-a-vis the appraisal. Conservative traffic
growth rates were used in the appraisal, and, considering the high traffic
growth experienced, it would appear that the timing of the construction of
many road sections was late.
7.06      Finally, from a social point of view, the project's impact has been
significant in carrying the advantages of modern technology to small towns
and to people who previously had few opportunities and narrow horizons.
Eunapolis is only one of those towns which had mud and straw houses three years
ago and today is progressing to the extent that its people want to form a new
municipality, independent from Porto Seguro, which is their present administra-
tive center. Porto Seguro, in turn, has ceased to be just a name in Brazil's
history and is now a growing tourism area. Habits have changed, the environ-
ment has changed and the areas of influence of the project roads have grown
more prosperous.



rawI=C    CalPLREO  8QPOR_
DRIL   - SECOID EMIONAT PROJECT - 1068 676-BR
Finl St4tu of Conatructfon and PavinRt Work
(Aonmnts in Million Dollars)
Ea~ d  r                                                                                  L  Or                                                                                 Conp Iation Drte
_Road BLu"r         s                    Roa _td Secti__ L ,                                     T                     Appraisal    Consulting     Date  of      Date  of                              Original      Final     Final
Engineer's    Contract    Comncement                               Conctact     Total       Cost
Fedaral    State                                                          Xo.     Length     Contractor    Supervisor    EstiUta 1    Estinte I/     Avard                       Origilna     Fin-l     Ahount l     Coot     per km.
k     I                                 I     -        2    -       3              A                         5I           7          _       98/e
11  17.0  STAR                                        4.659       11.23.70       1.05.71      12.24.72    12.31.73     4.257        5.340     0.31h
.  12    15.5    0a6CISA-STAR                                  4.605       11.23.70       1.09.71      12.28.72    12.31.73     4.274        4.167)
Igl-324            _Salvador-Feirs de Santana (1)                        12A     (105)    STAR           DOESC8/rIW                                  7.28.73       7.28.73      10.14.73    10 14.73       770765               0.367
B-324  -  86  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(1-)                               TR12.27.73                                                             12.27.73       2.87         .2.4       074276      079
U13     bridges      r1.410                                                11.26.70       1.09.71      10.29.72    10.29.72      1.667       1.551         _
11.400       Io.0: 4                                            I             10.198*      12.582     0.37
42      bridge     I    r                                  .   0.512       11.23.70       1.08.71       1.03.72    12.17.72      0.546       0.695        -
42   51.4  00                                         6.645       11.23.70       1.08.71      12.27.72     3.31.73     5.684        7.864     0.153
U-l0l   -   BA  Rio Pardo-Itinraju                                                                                    6.805      11.23.70       1.0871        12.27.72     3.31.73     4.627       7.190      C .17
Dl10   8  RoPad-I  tau   4 44 2  BA)W.-BEMiSA  TlANPO  3.204      11.23.70       1.08.71      12.27. 72    3.31.73      3.660       5.613     0.127
45       43.5     RODOFIEREA                                    3.952      11.23.70       1.08.71      12.27.72     3.31.73      4.249       5.628
,1 Toul 200.5     CUIA23.700                                  19.118                                                            18.966      26.990     0.135
7.631       11.23.70      12.14. 70     12 .04.72    6.30.73     6.480        6.778     0.113
BR-101  52  45.7  C8Dm         1                               4.414       11.23.70       1.17.71       1.17.73     6.30.73      3.998       4.872     0.107
in-101      _          L6A     Itaniraju-Psdro Canafio                   53       53.3         R         OOPAVL                         6.171       11.23.70       1.27.71       1.17.73     6.30.73     5.311        6.246     0.117
54      bridges Zfi   AN                                       0.269       11.23.70       7.21.71       7.21.72     1.31.72     0.271        0.452        -
Total     159.0     _      _6 1              6       .400                       18. U5                                6060                      w- -      .15--
91       47.3    CALCrIliMWa                                   2.725       11.23.70       1.08.71       1.02.72      1.02.72     2.114       2.684     0.057
B1-354   H4C-163       HC      agsa Foreiass-satalag  , (Jn BR-262)      92       63.4    ISA-COVAI         CONSOL                      3.534      11.23.70        1.08.71       1.02.72     1.02.72     2.587        3.487     O.055
Total    110.7    I                                5.900         6.259                                                            4.7         67        0.W57
III1     bridges  ST1SCCA                                       0. 803      12.07 .70      3.01.71       7.29.72    11.30.72     0.647        0.712       --
112      48.3    C. O. O.                                      2.298       11.23.70       2.14.71       1.03.73     1.31.73      1.950       2.338     0.Ol;
EU-452      _          00 I-umbi r_lio Verd                             113       51.4    BA BOSA41E1       PRDNOB                      3.020      11.23.70        2.25.71       1.14.73     3.31.73     2.508        2.835     O.055
114      35.4     CALCItoO-                                    2.043       11.23.70       3.01.71       1.20.73     4.30.73      1.974       1.850     o.oS2
1 3.      46.0         CQIPSSA                                  2.979       12.04.70       5.31.71      11.15.72     4.30.73      2.526       2.763     0.o60
_Tou l _B                                           12.500                                                                         1.1 4 3   9.605 
121      35.9    BCiDOP4VI-STO                                 3.242       12.18.70       2.01.71      11.07.72     4.07.72      2.538       1.996 |
811-470  SC-43/60  SC  J-Octiou Bit-116-Cmpft Nmos  122S  (5.9)  dllOAVI    12.21.73      12.28.73      10.24.74     8.31.76      2.949-      4.034     0
M-470  SC-43/  SC  Jc~~tioo U-ll6-c~oa UDena          122A      55.5)   x0PAV                                         4.630       12.18.70       2.01.71      11.07.72    11.07.72     3.615        2.4051     a
123  I brLdeen isin. GEUIS                                 ~~~~~~2.2.73  12.28.73    10.24.76      8.31.76     5.330**     7.350,
0.455        1.12.71       1.12.71       1.07.72     4.06.72     0.412        0.380        -
TOUI    190.9     1                               10.700        837                                                               6.S65*     16.165     0.178
_ 8-3         *8      PFtrto H riane-Sta. Cnus do 8ul          161       50.0      B     VnM    SCED  lICA                     6. 44       4.15.71        4.15.71       4.05.73     5.31.74      5.638       9.2052    0.184
ES-S  SB  Forto 1~rtant.-Sta. Cm, do Sul       162      bridpas2/ BUM358- n0.195                                            4.14.71       4.14.71       4.09.72     4.28.73      0.227       0.252        -
_   _  3UI  w.u                          9.800         6.8     5INI3I                                                                 8 .*         *5 0.113
151       45.0 -TR         I                                    7.351        4.15.71       4.15.71       4.05.73     5.31.74      5.647       6.685     o26
RS-11/38      RS   Cr    ueiro do Sul-Hu          1    5L         A     (450.O) SILO,t                                                      6.17.74       6.17.74       2.11.75     4..02.75     6.154       5.860      .
Teall  b45d,oR "  S031!L    BERGEOR      9.600        0.433        4.16.71       4.15.71       4.11.72    10.22.72      0.527       0.604       2
_______                                  ___________                ______9_600_7 784_6_174                               13.149     0.292
U      TOTAL                             86.7                                    100.000       88.629                                                         j  78.O7l   | 113.360     0.130
e xcluding continacoiaa                                                   * kcnu       now contracts
/ completad by DUR    /8 p            t                                  **       ontracts
October 1976



PROJECT COI4LETION PEPORII
BRAZIL - SECOND ijONWAY PRJC     -18   M669
Final Status of Impr.oveomt sod P-vins Work
(Amonta in 141ili Dollars)
Road *boo-                                                                                 LO0T                                                                                     Cosipletion Date                               FPinal.
st.t.  Road Sectiot.    ~     ~    ~    ~     ______                                Appraisal       Consul tin     Data  of      Date  of                               Original      rinal      coat
Engineer.     Contract     Coasoncamant                             Contrat       Total    per ha.
Federal    flats                                                           NO.    Length     contractor    Superiso      Estimate 2!      Estimate .    Award                        Orig inal    Float       Aount        Coat
k.a    I                                                        Ii    I             k               i                       I 2         1       9-8AmO
I       65.0    E.T.T.                                          4.672      11.23.70        1.14.71       9.05.72     9.0t172      3.418        3.460     0.053
2       54.7    BETA           ASE4.046                                    11.24.70        1.12.71       9.03.72      1.30.73     2.715        3.702     0.o67
88-222  -  PT/CE  Pirlpirflohral                         3   ~   ~~~~~   ~~      ~        ~ 80.0-  SATL  rf A            483         11.23.70       1.14.71       9.05.72      9.01.73     3.362       4.064      O.i
CARBOOCO      SARIA9                                   11.23.70       1.12.71        1.12.7 2    2.28.72   1. 6...     0...63.U&
T.tal  199.7                         ~~~~~~~14.400   14.007                                                            10.161      11.861      G. c59
B8L-324      -          ILA     Salvodot-Foita do Sant.na                  14       75.3    00ENGz        DOOSCH/TENPO       3.500          3.306      11.23.70        1.20.71       1.08.73     10.31.73     2.993       2.939      0.039
21  33.5  STAPJ                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~2.234
22       55.9       -,A/      NHIDOERVICE                        5.280
BR-101                  BA      Iunotfon 88-324 - Rio Preto                23       44.6         B.ODMfC                                    3.390)
Total  179.6                                      5~~~~~1380  1.25  11.23.70    2.87            .87         .1.73      12.037      16.863      0.094
31  54.0  nxpqv-                                 5~~~~~~~~.170  11.23.70    1.08.71      12.23.72     3.31.7,4     4.544       7.157      4.132
32  42 7  ENGRHL                                ~~~~~~~~3.177  11.23.70    1.8.71        12.23.72    10.31.73      3.216       3. 844       0.o0
34  35:4D          ASTEIP                       ~~~~~~~~1.641  12.23.70     1,0'8.71      6.30.72    10.02.73      1.393       2.947       EL 082
BR-101      -           EA      Bio Proto-Rfo Pardo                        3        3102.301                                                           11.23.70       1.08.71        6.30.72     3.31.73      2.304       2.719      0.058
36  52.9                                        ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~5.643  11.23.70  1.06.71  12.23.72   3.31.73      3,630       8.06 1     06 152
11  .-A...  C.I.                                ~~~~~~0. 96  11.54.70       1.08.71       1.08.72      7.31.72     0253j       0.343         -
Total  215.6                         ~~~~~~~17.400   18.228                                                            17.360      25.071      Ga.16
61       48.9       .BETA                                        3.909      11.23.70        2.01.71      10.01.72      6.30.73     2.976        4.066      0083
63       37.0    2O?FKO9 .42                                                1123.70         2.13.7,1     10.13.72      6.30,73     2.143        2.780      0075
6   48.7    0.'.B.            ESA3.473                                 11.2.7         223.71        10.23.72     8.17         259         073
BR-101      -           ES      Pedro Canarlo-Llnheres6                                                        SAi 67                                                   :83                              7     .9            9
63A  (27.5)  SCUMLLI                                     ~~~~~~~~~11.06.72  11.06.72   6.03.73      6.30.73     2.3935r      2.260     0.112
(21.2)  CONTER  ~   ~         ~        ________        11.03.72      11.06.77        5.31.73     6.30.73      2.546       2.387     __
Total  134.6                           9. ~~17&~~    10.526                                                             7,714*     02.288      0.9
71  62 1  RABELLO                               ~~~~~~~~7.829  11.23.70    2.11.71        1.01.73    51.05.74      5.714       7.801      0   5
71A  (56:0)  PAL.QUMWAL                                  ~~~~~~~~10.20.72  10.30.72   10.15.73     10.06.74     6.000o       6.11737   0.235
BR-101      -            i      Rio Bonito-Faoenda dos Quar-Ca              2      bige      i                UE                           0.333       11.23.70       2.10.71        1.01.72    11.25.73      0.409       0.486         -
73  54.1  lUBIRn G&LV,                          ~~~~~4.130  11.23.70        1.13.71       1.01.73     3.02.74      3.761       3.116      Dv.095
74  id es VMAOLM                               ~      ~   ~~~~~0 11.23.70   2.06.71       1.01 .72    12.22.71   0,212j         0.226        -
Total  116.2                     __7~~~~~14.000D     12a.30                                                            10.096*      20.406  I0.176
81  68 3  DOENGE                                ~~~~~~~~3.566  2.16.71      2.23.71       2.11.72      8.29.72     2.349        2.648     0.039
BR-135      IC-i      1M0       Corints-B-raiuva                          82        5:       EG                TC3.375                                  2. 18.71      2.23.71        2.13.72     8.29.72      2.717       2.930      0.056
83  46.6  4INKS EKG.                          2,335      ~~~~~~2.03.71  2.23.71        2.03.72     8.29.72      7.048       2.257      0n.A*J...
Total  167.8                     9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~276  1 ~~~~~~7.314                                          7.835     O.o5o
101  35.0                                        ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~2.403  2.03.72  2.23.71  1.31.72    2.23.72      2.068       2.210     0.0140
uR-363      M40-54     IC       It.lotbab-Canal de Baa SOeso             10                                  OSL2                              8        2.08.71       3.04.71        2.03.72     3.04.72   -2.054       2.I   L.177...
Total  114.6      4.100           5.013                                                            ~~~~~    ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.122  4.387  0.0380
2-158  -  80  Ore. IlarIa-Julia 4. Cacrilbos          ~~~~131.   130.0)       g    r    u.v     o                        1.811      11.23.70        2.13.71       8.09.72      2.01.74     2.189        1.985     0.169
ISR-158  RS  sta. Marta-Julio de castilhat  131A  (15.0)  ROWSM       rMWPUNISM                                   7.L67.16.73   3.18.73        . 13.744    73015744     2.3033-0    33.07
132       ITERPM                                           I~~~~680  ...*..U... 1.23.70  1.22.71  7.13.72  12.15.73     2.789       3.807     0.17
4,9580      8.945     0.14~3
0GRAND  8011262632012.1                                                                                                                                              76,9914    110,617     0.087
/  ecluding ...ntingenofos6                                                    * 3d.in    c. ostraots only                                                                                                                              5
0kw controcts
Oto.ber 1976



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL - SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT - LOAN 676-BR
Final Status of Feasibility Studies
(mouiits in thausand Cru efros)
CONTRACT PERIOD                        ORIGINAL   FINAL      PERCENT
____ ____ ____ ____ APPROVAL                      F NL  C S
ROAD                           SECTION                 LENG 1       CONSULTANT     ORIGIN,          ACTUALA                       CONTRACT   OTAL    FIFAL COST
BY DNER                          TO CONTF
DAYS      START      FINISH                  AMOUNT    COST       AMiOUNT
BR412/110/PB/PE    FARINHA - ENTRONC. BR-232               207      ASTEP                210    07-28-70    02-23-71    09-24-71     1,190     1,203       101
BR-030/BA          CAETITE - BRUMADO
Bl-030/BA          BRUMADO - ENTRONC. BR-116         /     232      TRANSCON/TENPO       270    08-05-70    05-02-71    12-22-72     3,947     2,125        54
RA-630             BRUMAD0 - VMPORIA DA CONQUISTA         (
BA-026/554         BRUMADO - MARACAS - ENTR. BR-116
BR-101/BA          FEIRA DE SANTA - ESPLANADA              137      H.SANTANAIORPLAN     240    07-23-70    03-19-71    11-08-71     1,121     1,185       106
ES-43              DIV. BA/ES-ECOPORANGA-BARRA-S.FRANCISCC  143     CONSEPRO/SPL         210    08-27-70    03-29-71    12-02-71       980     1,302       133
BR-135/MG/RJ       RIO DE JANEIRO - JUIZ DE FORA           202      EULER                285    07-28-70    05-09-71    01-01-73  1  3,620     3,846       106
MG-10              CORINTO - PIRAPORA                      148      ETUC                 210    09-14-70    05-11-71    02-29-72     1,200     1,143        95
589
BR-364/MT/GO       RONDONOPOLIS-JATAI-CANAL SAO SIMAO     (66i)     ENECON/ESPA          270    07-22-70    04-18-71    12-22-72     4,180     4,397       105
BR-364/163/MT      CUIABA-RONDONOPOLIS-CAMPO GRANDE        795      ASTEP/TRABSCON        300   07-28-70 |05-24-71      08-11 -72     lt,017   4,985       101
MARINGA-SANTO INACIO                                                                   I
PR-13             MARINGA-ROLANDIA                                                       210    11-12-70    11-22-71   08-28-72      1,925     2,387       124
NOVA ESPERANCA-PORTO CEARA
PR-67             NOVA ESPERANpA-R01ANDIA                  3
Rs-54/48          REGIAO DE SANTA ROSA                    331     ENECON/ESPA           270    03-03-70    08-26-71   06-26-72      2,100     2,689       128
PE-50             TRES PASSOS - CAMPO NOVO - IJUTI         103
BR .158/377/PS,/51  JUTIO DE CASTILHOS - CRUZ ALTA    5   (235)    PLANISUL/PROJU        245    08-28-70    04-29-71   09-29-75        912       968       106
TOTAL                             3,256                                                                      26,092    26,230      101
(0,756)
I/  Figures in brackets indicate total lenth of alternative alignmenta studied
2/ The average rate of exchange was abot US$1 - Crt5.4
October 1976



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL - SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT - LOAN 676-BR
Final Status of Detailed Engineering
(Amounts in thoxtsandCruze ros)
;'                                                |                            CONTRACT PERIOD                         ORIGINAL [ FINAL        PERCENT
APPROVAL                          FINAL COST
ROAD                           SECTION                   LENGTH       CONSULTANT      ORIGIN. |       ACTUAL                    L    CONTRACT     TOTAL    TO COTRACT
BY DNERTOCNRT
_________________                                                         DAYS   I  START       FINISH                  AMOUNT      COST       AMOUNT
BR-104/PA/PE       CAMPINA GRANDE - CARUARU            )
BR-104/PE/AL      I CARUARU - UNIAO DOS PALMARES       3      333      ASTEP                 324     07-28-70    06-15-71    12-15-71      3,499      3,474        99
BR-104/AL-504      UNIAO DOS PALMARES - ENTROC, BR-316
BR316/232/PI/PE    PICOS - MORAES                             156      SONDOTECNICA          210     08-11-70    03-09-71    12-15-71       1,973     1,971       100
BR316/232/PI/PE    MORAES - SALGUEIRO                         146      ASTEP/H.SANTANA       240     07-28-70  I 03-25-71    12-15-71      1,973      2,013   I   102
BR-324/BA          ACESSO NORTE DE SALVADOR                     4      TENPO                 315     09-18-70    09-29-71    01-11-72        453        429        95
ES-37/36          | NOVA VENECIA - SAO DOMINGOS                62      TECNOSOLO/BERGER      210     08-17-70    03-29-71    12-10-71        828        977       118
RJ-133             PEDRO DO RIO - ENTRONC. BR-116                   l                        210     11-11-70    08-23-71       -           1,627     1,675       103
111   ,PROENSIE
RJ-82              POSSE-- BONSUCESSO
BR-354/HG          ENTRONC. BR-262 - BAMBUI                              1                   240     12-04-70    08-25-71    12-15-71       1,590     2,342       147
211      PROENGE/LASAE'rnIJ
BR-354/MG-25       FORMIGA - PERDOES                   )  j
MG/174/168/28       S.SEB. PARAISO - POCOS DE CALDAS      j                                  270     09-14-70    06-26-71       -          4,839      5,256       108
1284        C C0N3OLASPA.. 
BR/267/MG-157      POCOS DE CALDAS - PARAGUACU         )            ,                              ,O P
BR-153/GO          CERES - PORANGATU                          236      HIDROSERVICE          285     10-02-70    07-14-71    12-30-71      2,850      2,832        99
BR-060/GO          GUAPO - RIO VERDAO                         135      EULER                 210     08-05-70    03-03-71    01-14-72       2,068     2,048        99
BR-060/GO          RIO VERDAO - JATAI                         139      ASPLAN/PLANTA         228     07-28-70    03-13-71    01-11-72       1,690     1,647        97
BR-163/MT          BANDEIRANTES - CAMPO GRANDE                 66      ASTEP/TRANSCON         -     07-28-70   1 05-24-71    01-11-72      INCL. I   FEAS. STUDY
PR-12               CORNELIO PROCOPIO - CONGOINHAS             44      ETEL                  210     11-12-70    06-10-71    11-16-71         572       685        120
BR-153/PB/SC/RS    UNIAO DA VITORIA - ERECHIM                 241      PROENGE               360    08-19-70     08-13-71    01-11-72      3,805      3,776        99
BR386/158/RS/SC    SARANDI - IRAI - CUNHAPORA             |   177      ENECON/ASPIAN         290    07-28-70     05-14-71    12-10-71       2,969     2,892   1    97
RS-19              TAQUARA - SAPIRANGA                         24      PLANISUL/PROJESUI     150    10-17-70     03-18-71       -             390       457       117
12,369                                                                          31,116     32,474-      104
The average rate of exchange was about US$1   Cr4 5.4
October 1976



TABLE 5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL - SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT - LOAN 676-BR
Estimates of Appraisal vs Completion Rates of Return
Rates of Return                 Estimated rate
Road                Road                      3at Appraisa  lM                of return on
completion vis-a-vis
No.                Section             Best     Upper 1/ Lower 2/          appraisal estimates
Estimate     Limit    Limit
BR-222        Piripiri-Sobral              21          27        15    higher than upper limit
BR-324        Salvador-F. Sta. Ana                                     h
Section I            44           _         _     higher than best estimate
Section II           32           -         -     higher than best estimate
BR-101        Jet. BR-324-Rio Preto        30          36        24    between best estimate and upper limit
BR-101        Rio Preto-Rio Pardo          22          29        15    between best estimate and upper limit
BR-101        Rio Pardo-Itamaraju          19          25        13    below lower limit
BR-101        Itamaraju-Pedro Canario      25          32        18
BR-101        P. Canario-Linhares          42          50+      32     higher than upper limit
BR-101        Rio Bonito-Fzda. dos 40      20          26        14    higher than upper limit
BR-135        Corinto-Bocaiuva             18          24        12    higher than upper limit
BR-365        Ituitaba-C. S. Simao         47          50+      38     higher than upper limit
BR-354        Lagoa Formosa-BR-262         23          28       18     higher than upper limit
BR-452        Itumbiara-Rio Verde          37          44        30    higher than upper limit
BR-470        Campos Novos-BR-116          35          42       28     higher than upper limit
BR-158        S. Maria-J. Castilhos        25          31       19     higher than upper limit
RS-038/011    C. do Sul-Mupum              17          22       12     between lower limit and best estimate
RS-003        P. Mariente-S.C. do Sul      18          23       13     higher than upper limit
1/ Assuming costs 10% lower and benefits from vehicle operating costs savings 10% higher
than best estimate.
2/ Assuming costs 10% higher and benefits from vehicle operating costs savings 10% lower
than best estimate.
October 1976



TABLE 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL - SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT - LOAN 676--BR
Appraisal Estimates vs. Actual Costs
C OS    S                         .
Road                                                          (US million)
Road Section              Appraisal Estimates  , Actual        Actual Cost
No.                                      Without    With Qty.'      Total     as % of Estimated
Conting.     Conting.      Cost     Cost with Conting.
BR-222        Piripiri-Sobral                 14.4          15.84       11.86          -25.1
BR-324        Salvador-F. Sta. Ana
Section I              11.4         12.54       12.58          +   .3
Section II              3.5          3.85        2.94           -23.6
BR-101        Jct. BR-324 - Rio Preto         13.8         15.18       16.87           +11.1
BR-101        Rio Preto - Rio Pardo           17.4         19.14        25.07          +30.9
BR-101        Rio Pardo - Itamaraju           23.7          26.07       26.99          + 3.5
BR-101        Itamaraju - Pedro Canario        16.4         18.04       18.35          + 1.7
BR-101        Pedro Canario - Linhares          9.6         10.56       12.23          +15.8
BR-101        Rio Bonito - Fzda dos 40        14.0          15.40       20.41          +32.5
BR-135        Corinto - Bocaiuva                9.0          9.90        7.86          -20.6
BR-365        Ituitaba - C. S. Simao            4.7          5.17        4.39          -15.1
BR-354        Lagoa Formosa - BR-262           5.9          6.49         6.17          - 4.9
BR-452        Itumbiara - Rio Verde           12.5         13.75        10.50          -23.6
BR-470        Campos Novos - BR-116           10.7          11.77       16.17          +37.4
BR-158        S. Maria - J. Castilhos          6.8           7.48        8.95          +19.6
RS-038/011    C. do Sul - Muaum                 9.6         10.56       13.15          +24.5
RS-003        P. Mariente - S.C. do Sul         9.8         10.78        9.46          -12.2
193.2        212.52      223.95          + 5.4
1/ No price contingencies were considered for the projects
October 1976



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL - SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT - LOAN 676-BR
Appraisal Estimates vs Actual Traffic Counts
ROAD                                                                                  T  R  A  F  F   I  C
ROAD SECTION                                                   (ADT average per section~)                  __________
NOAD.ROAD SECTION                          ADDraisal Figures         _           (    Actual Counts              _               Actual as % of
1968    (972         1970     1971        1972       1973       1974       1975    first year after com
(estim.)fisyeratrcm
_   _                              nletion of works
BR-222         Piripiri - Sobral                 246        356         -        - *        251*       299*      582         -            463.5
BR-324         Salvador F. Sta. Ana
Section I             6,3231'    9,488         -        - *     10,575*        _ *        -         -            +11.5
Section II            2,9261'    4,010      4,205    4,718*      4,942*     6,129*    6,513         -            462.4
BR-101         Jct. BR-324 - Rio Preto           199      1,144         -        _ *        940*     1,370     1,851         -            +19.8
BR-101         Rio Preto - Rio Pardo             212        889         -        _ *        655*    1,056*     1,193         -            +34.2
BR-101         Rio Pardo - Itamaraju             341      1,087         -        _ *        396*       660       993         -            -39.3
BR-101         Iamaraju - Pedro Canario          280        984         -        _ *         _ *        _ *       -          -     no counts available
BR-101         Pedro Canario - Linhares          515      1,398         -     1,576*      1,212*    1,704*     2,366                      +69.2
BR-101         R. Bonito - Fzda.dos 40           248      1,155       563       476*        629*      617*     1,741*     3,703*         +220.6
BR-135         Corinto-Bocaiuva                  263        385       340       342*        433*      686        752         -            +78.2
BR-365         Ituitaba - C. S. Simao            158        553         -        _ *        775*    1,005      1,327         _            +81.7
BR-354         Lag. Formosa - BR-262             160        325       218       312*        431       569        628         -            +32.6
BR-452         Itumbiara - Rio Verde             334        737        -         _ *      2,059*    2,082         -       2,044          +182.5
BR-470         Campos Novoa - BR-116             630      1,052        _         _ *         _ *       - *     1,237*     1,724*          463.9
BR-158         S. Maria - J. Castilhos           682        967       _-        700*        813*       - *     1,113*     1,799           +86.0
RS-038/011     C. do Sul - Mu,um                 842      1,189        _      1,105*      1,121*    1,181*     1,420*     1,352*          +13.7
RS-003         P. Marente - S. C. do Sul         423        612        _        787*        831*    1,131*     1,355*     1,756          +186.9
1/  1967 figures
U   Estimated traffic in first year of opening, or after completion,
of project works, as per-appraisal report.
*   year   during which construction works took place
October 1976






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL - SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT - LOAN 676-BR
Comparison of Scheduled and Actual Contract Periods
RAD1 COTct                                 1 P ei o  ! d  l l 1  1                1   111
Octo4b_er                                E { T I T III I I I I Il76
I~~~~ tSIIIIIIlowllllllE
Octobe 19761



Cvrpa4rscrnc*Lcf Schedluled and Actual '_rtract Periods
ROAD     LOT    J      ' 9  A S  I!JO  J   A  M 9 J  2JA S   7N31  1 F  I   i  A  0 |   s   P MA  Ni J  A4   1  9 1  1 S1A  f
f3n.:Ol  IV52 .  |j 
on-'OI IV
R- 354  54
Scheduled Contract Period     tz| 0,  n                                                                                   n
8ctual Contract Period            _ac
)cto'bcr 1976



Comparisor. of ScihecLled arnd Actual Contract P'eriodEs
aR-Iss  1 32 ~~J L MI I                                                                         J FII IJI IA 1t  dld  
1X 36511                                     111__I
BR- 45  IO'Z e 
IR-   2
Schedulod Contract Period t-//t        
Actual Contract Period
CcIto^ 4bII



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL - SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT - LOAN 676-BR
Unit Cost of Lots
'~~~~~9                                                                                 O   ,ii=06T NEW CMTA
o   L_t t~~~WX  < tt\ X t  4  4     W   L       F    F  t            e ~~~~~~LOT WITH lEW C0CERACT (S)
5d ,0                                                                     1
G   I
O,0            5000  iiti                  * 15.0          2000200 '00000-  -                L00001
v~~~~~~ ~  ozLO                              WITh IoW CO.N;RACT (S)t,nr>.
October  . .                            . .  --             DAHIA   ESPIRITO SANTO
~~3   1           114   A/   1 
o            50000          100000       -150.000        200 000         250 003       1O000          3Lo 000
FTNA-L COST OF ~.:o:cK (U.S$t
October 1976



ANNEX 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL - SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT - LOAN 676-BR
Second Plan of Action - Implementation
Objective                               Achievement
Reorganization of Highway
Administration
(a)  Implementation of DNER's       Recommendations by the Getulio Vargas
reorganization                 Foundation were implemented in 1970
and 1971; US-FHWA experts assisted in
execution of program.
(b)  Gradual delegation of          Pilot maintenance regions were estab-
highway maintenance to         blished in Rio Grande do Sul, Santa
state DERs                     Catarina, Bahia, Minas Gerais, Parana,
Pernambuco, Maranhao, Rio Grande do
Norte, Paraiba and Mato Grosso. Impor-
tant gains were made up to 1971 and
limited achievements have been obtained
since then. Fifth and proposed Sixth
Highway Projects are dealing with the
problems involved in improving highway
maintenance.
(c)  Reorganization of DERs         Reorganizations were completed in the
states of Rio de Janeiro, Goias, Sao
Paulo, Mato Grosso, Pernambuco, Minas
Gerais, Bahia, Rio Grande do Sul,
Parana and Santa Catarina.
Planning
(a)  Strengthening of DNER's        SYSTAN (USA) and TRANSPLAN (Brazil)
planning capacity              were retained to collaborate with
DNER's Planning Office in reviewing
Highway Master Plans. Final reports
for the three southern states were
published in 1974 and the remaining
states in 1975.
(b)  Establishment with DNER of     A separate group (division of plans
a central investment review    and programs) was established at DNER
mechanism for national and     and worked in close contact with the
state projects                 TRANSPLAN and SYSTAN experts.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Obiective                               Achievement
3.   Supervision
(a)  Improvement of construction    DNER organized a specialized group of
supervision                    staff of construction engineers and
inspectors who, with the expert advice
of the US-FHWA, wrote operation manuals
and coordinated supervision work.
(b)  Creation within DNER of a      INGEROUTE (France) was retained to
central group for the          collaborate in the creation of this
coordination of supervision    group.  The consultants' performance
work                           was highly successful and they were
retained to continue assisting DNER
through further Bank projects.
(c)  Employment of supervision      Consultants, normally the same company
consultants to assist DNER     which prepared the final design of
with on-site inspection        projects, were on site throughout the
execution of the civil works.



r I  E  R  U  7
i.  ,i z                            A) !  E       j !  X  i .  l..
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



