RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY                    Report No. P-785
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO BRAZIL
FOR A SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
March 18, 1970



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMTNT
REPORT AID RECO114ENDATION OF THE PRESIDEN' TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON THE PROPOSED LOAN TO BRAZIL
FOR THE SECOND HIGIMAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Brazil in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$100
million.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       During the last few years the Bank has in its activities in Brazil
attached high priority to the transportation sector. The development of
this sector is of major importance for the continuing growth of the Braziliar
economy and for further progress towards internal financial stability.   The
rapid expansion of production and markets and the opening up of vast areas
in the interior require large investments in transportation facilities
Currently, about one-fourth of the Federal and State Governments' fixed
investment expenditure is in the transportation sector. Moreover, some
of the transportation entities, particularly the railways, incur large
deficits financed by the Government and need major organizational and
operational changes and new investments to approach financial viability.
Highways have assumed the dominant role in meeting Brazil's transport
requirement; in 1968 highway transport accounted for over 70 percent of
the total freight ton-km and 90 percent of passenger km.
3.       In 1965 the Bank participated, through a technical assistance
grant of $1.5 million, in the financing and supervision of the first
phase of the Transport Survey comprising the railroads, coastal shipping,
the ports of Santos, Rio de Janeiro and Recife and highways in four states.
A second phase of the Survey covering highways in the remaining principal
states, is now being completed. It was partly financed by the UIDP and
USAID and the Bank acted as executing agency.
4.      During these years there has been a continuing exchange of
views between the Bank and the Government on the implementation of the
Survey recommendations and organizational reform in the transportation
sector. In 1967 we informed the Government that we would hope to be
able to provide a continuing and significant financial support of proj-
ects in this sector, provided that the Government formulated an accept-
able program for the reform of the sector and provided that there was
satisfactory progress in its implementation.
5.       Accordingly, prior to the presentation to the Executive Directors
of the First Highway Loan, the Government presented to the Bank a Plan
of Action outlining the specific measures it proposed to take in the
sector through 1971.   Before the aDpraisal of this project we reviewed
in detail the Government's performance in respect of policies outlined



in the Plan of Action and found them to be satisfactory. In the rail-
ways where the problem of organization, operations and investment
priorities are most complex, a serious effort is under way to reduce
uneconomic operations, to improve investment programming and to introduce
a more efficient operational and managerial system. For highways, the
Government is implementing the investment program recommended by the
Transport Survey and it seems that short-term political objectives are
being subordinated to economic criteria. In the ports sector, the
Government has begun the task of rationalizing the accounting systems
and tariff structures of the major ports.
6.      During 1969, discussions were held with the Government on the
further reform of the transport sector covering the period 1970-1972
and general agreernent was reached on a set of measures which are
important to the further progress of the sector. Before negotiation
of the proposed loan, the Government communicated to the Bank its
Second Transport Plan of Action. (A translation of this Plan is attached
to the report.) We believe that if the Government follows the course
outlined in this Plan, Brazil would be well on its way towards an
efficiently functioning transportation system. These policies, like
the ones in the first Plan of Action, would also contribute to an
improvement in general economic performance by reducing the substantial
burden of the transport sector subsidies on the Federal budget.
7.      On the basis of the first phase of the Survey we identified a
number of high priority roads which constituted the First Highway Con-
struction Project for which a loan of $26 million was signed on October
23, 1968. The proposed project is also drawn from the highway master
plans prepared by the Transport Survey. The project was appraised by
a mission which visited Brazil during October 1969. Negotiations on
the proposed loan began February 18, 1970 and were completed two days
later. The Government was represented by Messrs. Eliseu Resende
(Director General of the National Highway Department and leader of the
negotiating team), Jayme Alipio de Barros (representing the Ministry
of Finance), Francisco Magalhaes, Raimundo Mesquita, Kurt Lux and Mrs.
Maria Luiza Magalhaes.
8.      The proposed loan would be the 28th Bank loan to Brazil.
It would increase the total of Bank Loans to $758 million (net of
cancellations). The following is a summary statement of Bank loans
to Brazil as of February 28, 1970:



-3-
Loan                                               Amount less
No.   Year        Borrower             Purpose   Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ illion
Loans fully disbursed                  267.0
403    1965   Central Eletrica de      Power           57.0          14.3
Furnas - Estreito I
404    1965   Centrais Eletricas de     Power          22.5          10.6
Sao Paulo - Xavantes
442    1966   Centrais Eletricas       Power           49.0          37.3
de Minas Gerais
474    1966   Central Eletrica de      Power           39.0          39.0
Furnas - Estreito II
475    1966   Cia. Brasileira de       Power            6.2           5.3
Energia Eletrica
476    1966   Cia. Forca e Luz          Power           8.1           7.5
do Parana
477    1966   Cia. Paulista de          Power          41.0          35.5
Forca e Luz
478    1966   Cia. Forca e Luz         Power            6.3           5.2
de i4inas Gerais
516    1967   Brazil                   Livestock       40.0          39.4
526    1968   Cia. Miniera de          Aluminum        22.0           7.1
Alumino - Alcominas      manufacture
565    1968   Central Eletrica         Power          22.3           21.9
de Furnas
566    1968   Cia. Forca e Luz         Power           26.6          26.2
de Minas Gerais
567    1968   Brazil                   Roads           26.0          25.4
656    1969   Banco do Nordeste        Industry        25.0          25.0
do Brasil
Total (less cancellations)             658.0
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others:                  151.9
Total now outstanding                  506.1
Amount sold                      10o3
of which has been repaid        7.1    3.2
Total now held by Bank                 502.9_
Total umdisbursed                                     299.7



- 4 -
9.       The Highway Constructuion Toan (567) became effective in May 1969.
Due to initial administrative problems with the sigring of the contracts
for construction, disbursements on the loan did not start until February
1970. However, in the last two months the Bank has received two disburse-
ment applications totalling $1.7 million and expects to receive others
regularly thereafter.  The current status of disbursements under the live-
stock Loan (516) and the electric power loans made in 1965-66 was discussed
in the President's Report on Banco do Nordeste do Brazil S. A. (P-769) and
the position has not changed substantially since then. The mission which
reappraised the livestock project in November-December 1969 to determine
the best means of speeding its implementation made a number of recommenda-
tions for improving the administration of the project by delegating greater
operating authority to the regional offices and applying lending techniques
more flexibly. These recommendations have been accepted by the Government
and the Central Bank. Other mission recommendations concerning relending
terms and the relationship of the project to other official agricultural
lending programs in the regions served are now being discussed with the
Brazilian authorities.
10.      IFC has made investments in 11 companies for a total of $49.5
million (net of cancellations). The following is a summary of the IFC
investments in Brazil as of February 28, 1970:
Amount    Undisbursed
($ million)
Investments fully disbursed                    32.7
Investments not fully disbursed                 8.4         7.0
Investments not yet effective                   8.4         8.4
Total (net of cancellations)                   49.5
of which has been repaid to the
Corporation                                   4.2
45.3
Amount sold                                    10.9
Total now held by Corporation                  34.4
Undisbursed                                                15.4
11.      The Bank is actively cooperating with the Government and private
agencies in Brazil in preparing projects in transportation, agriculture,
electric power, industry, mining, education and water supply which wTould
be suitable for financing by the Bank. In the coming months, I intend to
present to you for approval a loan for the Marimbondo hydroelectric
project.



- 5 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF TU, PRP0POSD LDAN
12.      BORRO91JER:                 - Brazil.
AMOUNT:                     - Equivalent   in various currencies
of $100 million.
PURPOSE:                    - To help finance:
a)  the construction and paving of
eight Federal and State road
sections totalling 872 km;
b) the improvement and paving of
nine road sections totalling
1,267 ''m;
c)  the detailed engineering and
supervision of the proposed wor'ks;
d) consulting services for the de-
tailed engineering of 2,290 km
and feasibility studies of 3,81L
km of roads which could be in-
cluded in future Bank highway
projects; and
e) consulting services to strengthen
the Planning unit of the National
Highway Department, and to im-
prove construction supervision.
AIOR.TIZATION:              - In 25 years, including a h year
period of grace, through semi-annual
installments beginning September 1,
1974 and ending September 1, 1995.
INTEREST RATE:              - 7 percent.
COfS1HITiMEJT CHARGE:       - 3/4 of one percent.
PART III - THE PROJECT
13.      An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of a Second Efighway
Construction Project - Brazil" (PTR-36) is attached.
14.      All highways included in the project were identified by the
Transport Survey as being of high economic priority. The economic rates
of return on the project roads range from 17 to L7 percent. About 50
percent of the roads included for construction are located in the Northeast.



- 6 -
The project would provide fOr the most urgently needed improvements in
the road network of that region. The program of feasibility and de-
tailed engineering studies included in the project emphasizes the
development of Brazil's western region, an area identified by the
recent agricultural sector mission to have a large potential for agri-
cultural development. The proposed studies would cover the region's
most important trunk roads.
15.      The total project cost is estimated at US$255.1 million and the
foreign exchange component at US$53.1 million. A Bank loan of US$100
million, equivalent to about 40 percent of the total project cost would
comprise the following:
a)  Civil works - $84.9 million for financing 40 percent of the
cost of construction or 3improvement and paving of highways included in
the project.
b)  Supervising consultants - $6.S million, for financing 40
percent of the cost of local consulting services and the foreign exchange
component of the costs of services rendered by foreign consultants to
supervise construction of the highways included in the project.
c)  Detailed engineering for one of the hi&hways included for
construction of the project - $0.3 million representing
retroactive financing of the foreign exchange expenditures since July 1,
1969 for the detailed engineering of BR-324 included for construction
in the project.
d)  Feasibility studies and detailed engineering of highways
suitable for inclusion in future Bank projects - $3.2 million
representing 10 percent of the total cost of feasibility studies for 3,814
km of highw.ays, and $3.7 million representing 40 percent of the total cost
for detailed engineering of 2,290 km of highways.
e)  Other consulting services - $0.4 million to finance the
foreign exchange component of consulting services to assist the National
Highway Department in organizing an effective planning unit, and $0.7 million
representing the foreign exchange component of consulting services to assist
the National Highway Department in improving its construction supervision,
16.      The loan would be made to Brazil and the overall execution of
the project would be the responsibility of the National Highwvay Department
(DNER). Execution of the project would be the responsibility of DNER for
federal highways and of the corresponding State Highway Departments (DERs)
for state and/or delegated national highwrays.  The Bank would sign proj-
ect agreements with the states of Ninas Gerais, Santa Catarina, and Rio
Grande do Sul, as the DIRs in these states would be responsible for the
construction of state highways and/or delegated national highways. Prior
to effectiveness the Federal Government would enter into subsidiary
agreernents, acceptable to the Bank, with the DERs of these states as well
as with the DERs of the states of Espirito Santo, Parana, and Rio de
Janeiro wrhich would be responsible for detailed engineering and feasibility
studies included in the project.



- 7 -
17.      Contracts for construction and pavw.ng would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding. To take advantage of
economies of scale through the use of larger contractors, some construc-
tion lots would be combined into packages and bidders would be given a
choice to bid on packages or single lots.
18.      The Federal Government would, as under the First Project, set
up a revolving fund to make and receive payments in respect of the project.
B;jnk disbursement procedures for civil works would be the same as in the
previous project. In the case of consulting services, the Bank would
reimburse DNER an agreed percentage of the total costs - 40 percent for
local consultants and the equivalent of the foreign exchange component
for foreign consultants.
19.      The foreign exchange component of the project is $53.1 million,
less than 25 percent of the total cost, and the proposed B-nk loan of
$100 million, representing some 40 percent of the cost of the project,
would cover $b6.9 million of local expenditure. Brazil's external capital
requirements are in excess of the foreign exchange component of high
priority investment projects, and cannot be met by financing only foreign
expenditure. It is particularly important for the Bank to be able to
stimulate reforms and institution building by lending in transportation
and agriculture, even though projects in these sectors have a relatively
low foreign content.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
20.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Brazil, the draft
Project Agreements between the Bank and the States of Minas Gerais, Rio
Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina respectively, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank and a draft Resolution approving the proposed loan are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
21.      The draft Loan and Project  Agreements follow the usual pattern
of agreements for highway projects financed by the Bank. In addition to
the Project Agreements, subsidiary agreements will be concluded between
the Federal Government and the DERs of those states where construction,
feasibility studies or detailed engineering are to be conducted on state
or delegated national highways.



-  8  -
PART V - THE E^O:TOTly
22.      An economic report on Brazil (WH-195a) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 31, 1969. It concludes that the
Government is generally continuing to follow reasonable stabilization
and development policies and that Brazil remains creditworthy for sub-
stantial anounts of external lending.
PART VI - COM1PLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
23.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
24.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Attachment:                              Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.



TRANSLATION OF GOVER1TENTIS LETTER
ONl TRANSPORTATION POLICY -
SECO;TD TRAUNSPORT PLAN OF ACTION
Ministry of Transport, Rio de Janeiro
LETTER No. D23/GM-70                                February 6, 1970
President
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
Dear Mr. President:
TWith the assistance of the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development, the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the
United States Agency for International Development, Brazil has, as you
are aware, carried out a broad survey of its transport sector. The
first phase of the Transport Survey is now complete; it covered the
Federal and state railroads, Federal and state highways in the states of
Minas Gerais, Parana, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul, the port
system including dredging and the ports of Santos, Rio de Janeiro and
Recife, as well as coastal shipping. For the second phase the consulting
firms are now submitting their final reports. This phase covers the
Federal and state highways in the northeastern states, Espirito Santo,
Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Yato Grosso and Goias, the reorganization of
the highwiay departments of these states and of Minas Gerais, Parana, Santa
Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul, and their highiay maintenance services.
These studies were undertaken by the Government so that their findings
could be used, as far as possible and in keeping with the overall economic
situation, as a basis for reforming the transport sector and determining
future investment priorities, paying due regard to the demands of nation-
al security, social welfare and regional integration. Many measures
consistent with the main conclusions of the consultants' reports, from
both the first and -che second phase, are already being carried out.
A Strategic Development Plan covering the transport and other
sectors was drawn up for the period 1968-70. Some of the measures
referred to above are already included in this Plan, while others,
which will help in achieving the targets set, are to be added to the
plan now being prepared by the present Administration. The Plan com-
prises a program of investment and its financing and specifies the
measures that the Government is proposing to take to improve the manage-
ment, operation and finances of transport sector agencies and their
activities. One of the Government's major objectives is to make more
efficient use of the funds, manpower and physical facilities available
for the transport sector. A prime objective of this policy is to reduce
the operating deficits of particular branches of transport, such as the
railroads.



- 2 -
The following are the most important measures that the Government
proposes to implement in the railroad, highway and port sectors and in
the field of transport coordination:
A. Railroads
The deficits of the railroads have been decreasing in the last
few years as a result of the reform programs already undertaken. In 1968
the total cash deficit amounted to NCr $482 million - a dec.ease in real
terms by 22 percent since 1965 and 11 percent since 1967. The operating
ratio of 200 in 1968 was the best performance index attained by RFFSA
since 1959.
During 1968 the railroads introduced "normalization" procedures
in their financial accounting, whereby they were partially reimbursed
for losses incurred on suburban passenger services, for expenditures
incurred in the employment of redundant Government personnel, and also
for services formerly rendered to the Government free of charge or at
reduced rates. "Normalization" of accounts in respect of traffic carried
at less than cost at the Government's request will be attained by the end
of 1970.
The Government's principal objective in the railroad sector is to
reduce the operating deficit by 10 to 15 percent a year. To achieve this
goal the following action will be taken:
(1) Completion of the current program for closing uneconomic lines,
involving a total of 7,335 km. So far, traffic has been suspended
on about 75 percent of this length. Furthermore, by the end of
this year, a program will be prepared providing for studies of
light density lines of less than 200,000 ton-km with a view to
closing dowm or rationalizing operations.
(2) Preparation by March 1970 of a new program for reducing the number
of stations, which will be studied for possible closure. The im-
plementation of this program will be started before the end of
1970. The number of stations closed reached 424 in 1969.
(3) Continued adherence by RFFSA to its policy goal of reducing staff
to 120,000 by December 1971.  In keeping with the studies now in
progress, RFFSA will establish by June 1970 its actual staff re-
requirements with a view to reducing its labor force still further.
The railroads will formulate and implement a personnel policy that
will enable them to recruit and retain skilled personnel.
(4) Adoption by the railroads, by June 1970, in line with studies
presently under way, of an aggressive rate and fare policy based
on the costs of the services concerned and designed to adjus-t rates
and fares so as to keep them at least in line with the pace of
inflation and competitive within the transport market generally.
This tariff reform will be fully implemented by December 31, 1970.



- 3 -
(5)  The Ministry of Transport will propose to the Government that the
present 10 percent tax on rail charges be incorporated into the
RFFSA tariff, effective June 1970.
(6)  Continuation of earlier efforts to establish full coordination of
Sao Paulo state and Federal railroad operations. Moreover, a com-
mission composed of representatives of Federal and state railroads
will be endeavouring to find a workable formula for merging
the two systems.
(7)  Completion of the organization of the Federal Railroad System into
four regional systems. The regional managers were appointed in
August 1969 and are now implementing the organization at the
regional level. The present administrative, financial and opera-
tional functions of the individual railroads will gradually be
transferred to the regional organizations. The first function to
be transferred will be the responsibility for new line cons-truction,
which is to be taken over from DNEF (Departamento Nacional de
Estradas de Ferro) early in 1970; this will gradually be followed
up by the transfer of the other functions, so that RFFSA's regional
system will be fully reorganized by the end of 1970.
(8)  Reorganization of DNEF, by the end of this year, as a staff organ
of the Ilinistry of Transport to advise the Minister on railroad
matters, including the policies to be pursued, surveillance of the
implementation of these policies, and rate and fare problems. In
the early months of this year the Contadoria Geral de Transportes
(CGT) and the Conselho Ferroviario Nacional (CF1) will be abolished.
(9) All new line construction will be conditional upon technical and
economic feasibility studies.
(10)  The railroads will prepare by June 1970 a three-year investment pro-
grami covering the period 1971-73, based on key traffic and financial
data. This program will be updated periodically to provide a con-
tinuous three-year investment plan.
B. Ports
The keynote of the Government's port policy will be the administra-
tive decentralization through the establishlment of an autonomous authority
for each port, with responsibility for operational decisions and for at
least maintaining financial equilibrium.
In line with this broad approach, the rollowing measures will be
promoted:
(1) The Departamento Nacional de Portos e Vias Navegaveis (DNPVN) will
be reorganized following studies to be conducted from July 1970
onward in accordance with guidelines to be issued by the Government.
DNPVN is scheduled to start introducing its new organization in



October 1970, and it is expected to be fully irnplemented in the
first half of 1972. Broadly speaking, DiNPVNWs responsibilities
will be concerned with overall planning of investments and port
activities, policy formulation, and rate control in the ports
sector. Port operations and investment management wrill be left
to the individual ports.
(2) The Government will promote the creation of mixed economy companies
(companhias de economia mista) to administer Brazil's main ports.
These companies, in which the Government will hold at least 51
percent of the capital and voting rights, will be organized as
autonomous and financially viable entities responsible for port
operations. The ports of Santos, Rio de Janeiro and Recife will
be reorganized on the basis of specific studies to be carried out
from July 1970 onwrard - the starting point for which will be the
basic studies already made during the first phase of the Brazil
Transport Survey - and in accordance with guidelines to be laid
down by the Government during the first quarter of 1970. These
guidelines will focus on, among other things, legislation for the
creation of the companies and for a detailed inventory in the
major ports.
(3)  In addition to helping to achieve greater efficiency in port
services, the reorganization of the ports will include provision
for overhauling the system of financial and cost accounting so as
to provide the data needed for setting rates, which must reflect
the cost of the facilities provided and the services rendered.
A review of existing legislation will be made to permit the
levying of various taxes for por-t investment. This review is
scheduled for cornpletion in the second half of 1970.
(4)  The systems proposed in the financial and cost accounting studies
now under wayr in the main ports will be implemnented gradually and
will be in operation in the port of Santos by mid-1971 and in the
ports of Rio de Janeiro and Recife by the end of 1971. Similar
systems will be phased into operation in other ports as may be
considered convenient.
(5)  As a key factor in carrying out the many measures to be taken, a
broad training program for port personnel will be organized and
will commence as soon as the studies planned provide the necessary
basic information.
C. Highways
The country's transport needs are being met increasingly by its
highnways, and continued progress in highway administration, planning
and construction is essential.



To meet these needs the Government is taking measures - some
already implemented, others being introduced or still under study - the
most important of wihich are summarized belowr:
(1) To rationalize the operation of the Departamento Nacional de Estradas
de Rodagem (DNER)and the state highT.fay departments (DERs), studies
are being undertaken with a view to eliminating duplication of high-
way maintenance and construction services.   These studies, coordinat-
ed by DNMR, w-ill make it possible to establish a program for gradually
transferring these services to the DERs that show they possess the
necessary technical and administrative ability. During the current
year the studies for the states of Iinas Gerais, Parana, Santa
Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul will be conducted.  Under an agree-
ment with USAID, DNIER will be assisted by technicians fron the
U. S. Bureau of Public Roads (BPR). Under the Transport Survey,
basic studies were presented for the reorganization of 18 DiRs.
DUER already has a new organic structure - established by Decree
Law ITo. 512 of Harch 21, 1969 - based on the conclusions of the
Getulio V!rgas Foundation (RzV), uhich made a study of its ad-
ministrative reorg,anization. PFGV is continuing to provide assist-
ance in implementing the administrative aspects, w1hile BPR will
help on teclmical- matters. The Federal Government will negotiate
writh the state governments to ensure that the DERs are brought into
line Twith DNER's newT status, bearing in mind the recommendations
of the Transpor-t Survey.
(2)  In the course of the Transport Survey, Master Highwiay Plans covering
both Federal and state networks were prepared in 18 states. These
plans are already in wiidespread use by DNER and most DERs.
Decree Lawf No. 512 of March 21, 1969 gave DHER the task of reviewing
the state programs, which should lead to more rational investments
in the sector. In addition, DNER's increased programming capacity,
to be introduced during 1971, coupled with the start of the gradual
delegation of construction and maintenance responsibilities to the
DERs, will place the Government in a position to exercise efficient
control over investments -n the state highwlays.
To irnprove its planning and control capacity, DNER's planning
department will be strengthened by a team of transport economists
and engineers, including expatriate technicians, to be contracted
in 1970 for a minimum period of 2 years.
(3) Effective construction supervision is needed to ensure that work
schedules are adhered to and specifications met.  It will be the
Government's policy to supplement DNER2s limited capacity by en-
gaging consultants.
Moreoever, to establish appropriate supervising procedures and
coordinate the work of the various consultants, DNER will in the
course of this year form a group of experienced engineers within
its construction department.



- 6 -
(4)  The Transport Survey demonstrated that the revenues from charges
levied on various types of road vehicles are not in proportion
to their use of and effect upon the highway system. Some adjust-
ments have already been examined and introduced, and in the course
of the year discussions will be held on a possible recasting of
the policy on road user charges.
D. Transport Integration and Coordination
Under the terms of Decree Lawr No. 516 of April 7, 1969, Geipot
(Executive Group for Transport Policy Integration) was renamed the
Study Group for Transport Policy Integration (Geipot) with effect from
April 1969.
In its new role Geipot reports directly to -the MILinister of Trans-
port. Its functions are to conduct the studies and research needed for
integrated transpor-t planning and to determine its implications for the
planning of the different miodes of transport.
As an advisory body to the Minister of Transport it will be
particularly active in transport coordination, including such aspects
as investment policies, user charges, rates, and surveillance of the
implementation of the action programs, bearing in mind the need to meet
overall transport demand a-t the lowest cost cor-tpatible with the country's
overall objectives.
In this conmection it will work on upda-ting the master and action
plans prepared as part of the Brazl1ian Transport Survey, in order to
fit them into a consistent overall transport plan, in establishing
criteria for setting investrment priorities; on examining and improving
the methodologies used in the feasibility studies, on project preparation,
and on investment programming. With this end in view, it will work in
collaboration with the sectoral agencies (DNER, DIrPVTp, DNEF, and RFFSA)
and their different offices througl-hout the country.
E. Investment Prograrm
As stated earlier, the Government formulated a Strategic Develop-
ment Plan covering the period 1968-70, which is being implemented in
accordance with the corresponding investment program. However, in the
interest of continuity of activities within the sector and to assure the
necessary consistency between the programs under way and future follow-up
programs, the investment program will be successively supplemented by a
detailed list of investments for the coming years, so that there will
at all times be a program covering the current year and the following two.
Yours very truly,
(sgd.)
Mario David Andreazza
(Minister of Transport)



