Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5831-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
February 28, 1986
Power and Transportation Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =       Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00            =       Paise 100
US$1.00            =       Rs 13.00
Rs 1.00            =       US$0.0769
Rs 1,000,000       =       US$76,923
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer (km)              =    1,000 meters (i) = 0.6214 miles (mi)
1 Meter (m)                   =    39.37 inches (in)
1 Cubic Meter (M3)                 1.31 cubic yard (cu yd) = 35.35 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 Thousand Cubic Meter (MC4) =    1,000 cubic meters
1 Thousand Cubic Meter (MCM) =    1,000 cubic meter
1 Barrel (Bbl)                =    0.159 cubic meter
1 Normal Cubic Meter          =    37.32 Standard Cubic Feet (SCF)
of Natural Gas (Nm3)
1 Ton (t)                     =    1,000 kilograms (kg) = 2,200 pounds (lbs)
1 Metric Ton of Oil          =    7.60 barrels
(39 API)
1 Kilocalorie (kcal)               3.91 British Thermal units (BTU)
1 Kilovolt (kV)               =    1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt ampere (kVA)       =    1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 Megawatt (MW)               =    1,000 kilowatts (kW) = 1 million watts
1 Kilowatt-hour (kWh)         =    1,000 watt-hours
1 Megawatt-hour (MWh)         =    1,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)        =    1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Ton of Oil Equivalent (toe)=    10 million kilocalories
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEA    -  Central Electricity Authority
CTG    -  Combustion Turbo-Generator
HRB    -  Heat Recovery Boiler
GAIL   -  Gas Authority of India Limited
SOI    -  Government of India
HBJ    -  Hazira-Bijaipur-Jagdishpur
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding
LCB    -  Local Competitive Bidding
LSHS   - Low Sulphur Heavy Stock
LPG    -  Liquefied Petroleum Gas
LRMC   -  Long Run Marginal Cost
MHCMD  -  Million Cubic Meter per Day
MOU    -  Memorandum of Understanding
NGL    -  Natural Gas Liquids
NHPC   -  National Hydro Electric Power Corporation, Ltd.
NPP    -  National Power Plan
NREB   -  Northern Region Electricity Board
NTPC   -  National Thermal Power Corporation, Ltd.
REB    -  Regional Electricity Board
REC    -  Rural Electrification Corporation
SEB    -  State Electricity Board
STG    -  Steam Turbo-Generator
NTPC'S FISCAL YEAR (FY')
April 1 - March 31
1/ The US$/Rs exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this
report have been made at US$1 to Rs 13.0, which represents the projected
exchange rate over the disbursement period.



FOR OFFICA  USE ONLY
INDIA
COKBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:               India, acting by its President
Beneficiary:            National Thermal Power Corporation Ltd. (NTPC)
Amount:                 US$485 million
Terms:                  Repayment over 20 years, including 5 years
grace, at the applicable rate of interest.
Onlending Terms:        From the Government of India (GOI) to NTPC,
with repayment over 20 years, including 5
years' grace, at an interest rate of not less
than 13.0Z per annum. GOI would bear the
foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Project Description:    The Project's main objective is to assist in
meeting the electricity demand in the Northern
and Western Regions of India through the
addition of about 1,500 KW of thermal
capacity. The Project comprises the
installation of three combined cycle power
stations located at Kawas (Gujarat), Anta
(Rajasthan) and Auraiya (Uttar Pradesh), as
well as the associated transmission system for
connection to the grid. This Project will
introduce combined cycle as a new technology
as well as natural gas as a fuel for power
generation. The gas will be provided
essentially from the off-shore South Bassein
gas field and through the Hazira-Bijaipur-
Jagdishpur (HBJ) pipeline. There are no
unusual risks. NTPC is experienced in the
design and construction of generation and
transmission facilities but will receive
assistance from consultants in relation to the
combined cycle units, as these represent a new
technology for both NTPC and India.
Thi document hs a nstrited disibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of the officid dutieL Its contents may not otberwise be disclosedwnthout World Bank mbnoiiaton.



Estimated Cost: 1/
Local       Foreign       Total
US$ million
Preliminary and Civil Works                         59.9           4.4        64.3
Main Electromechanical                             158.9         411.2       570.1
Equipment
Auxiliary Electromechanical                         67.6          80.8       148.4
Equipment
Fuel Supply Equipment                                4.4           9.0        13.4
Transmission System                                110.1          15.1       125.2
Consultancy and                                      5.6           5.2        10.8
Technical Assistance
Engineering and                                     62.2            -         62.2
Administration
Total Base Cost                                    468.7         525.7       994.4
Physical Contingencies                              24.2          27.5        51.7
Price Contingencies                                 82.8         112.4       195.2
Total Project Cost                                 575.7         665.6    1,241.3
Interest during
Construction
Bank                                             -            37.4        37.4
Other                                            4.3           3.0         7.3
Total Financing Required                           580.0         706.0    1,286.0
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign       Total
----(US$ million)---
IBRD Loan                                   -            485.0      485.0
GOI/External Borroving                    475.2          221.0       696.2
NTPC                                       104.8           -         104.8
580.0         706.0    1,286.0
1/ Includes taxes and duties of about US$127.3 million.



-iii-
Estimted Disbursements:
Bank FY                    FY87   FY88    FY89   FY90    FY91        FY92
-(W$[illion)
Annual                    37.0    133.0   150.0    90.0   50.0       25.0
Cumulative                37.0    170.0  320.0  410.0  460.0    485.0
Rate of Return:                 Northern Region  12        Western Region  13%



INDIA
COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Is SECTORAL CONTEXT                   ..................                  1
Comercial Energy Resources ........              .........  ...        1
Electricity Supply and Demand ........................... .. ....      2
Organization of the Power Subsector .................-.........        3
Finance and Pricing ... ........................................       4
Power Subsector Planning ...... ......**..0............                5
Management and Operations ......o ...... .-.......... *......**..* ****  5
GOI's Strategy in the Power Subsector ......... 60.....0........       6
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Subsector .................... ..     8
Bank Group Participation ............................. ... .. ..    10
II. THE BENEFICIARY - NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION LIMITED ..    11
Existing Facilities and Development Program ...............0...       11
Organization and Management . ................................. .    11
Recruitment and Training ... ...  ..........  .*....  ....... ..   ....    12
Performance ..........o.. 0 . .       ......... .....  ...... .........    13
III. THE PROJECT ...........................................s......    14
Project Setting ............                  ................. .    14
Project Objectives      .. ...................    14
Project Description .... ................................    15
Fuel Supply .......... 0.......... .................. ....................... 15
Engineering and Construction .............      ............. . ...    16
Project Preparation and Implementation Schedule ...............    17
Project Costs .....................-.................................. .....    17
Project Financing .. ........... ..................... 0..... ....    19
Procurement ......       .......* ..............................    19
Disbursement ..............................................................    21
Ecology      -                      ................... ........    21
Project Risks ............ o .................                        21
Project Monitoring  ..... ..............        ......... ........    22
This report has been prepared by Messrs. E. Linard de Guertechin (Power
Engineer), Suman Babbar (Power Engineer), John B. Creasor (Financial
Analyst), Wynne P. Jones (Economist), and M. Sharma (Consultant).



-ii-
IV. FINANCE ...................................                                23
Accounting Organization and Systems  ...........................          23
Past Financial Performance *......se......................    23
Future Investment and Financing             ...............................    25
Future Financial Performance             ..................................    25
Regional Tariffs .........          ................. ............        27
Commercial Arrangements for Sale of Power             .....................    28
Taration        ......................................... ...........    29
Bank Loan for the Proposed Project ...o .........................    29
Audit ..........................................ss.s........              29
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOKIC ANALYSIS ......o.          ............  30
Least Cost Analysis ....          ..........     .............................    30
Internal Economic Rate of Return ...............................          30
Justification for Bank Involvement             ............................    32
V*I. ACREEMENTS AND RECO9EKENDATION  ...................                       33
Agreements .....................................                          33
Recmmndaio .............................................34



-iii-
ANNEXES
Page No.
1.1 Electricity Generation, Sale and Pattern of Energy
Consumption - All India ............6.......................    35
1.2 Forecast of Regional Power Demand in India FY'86 - FY'95 .......    36
1.3 Previous Loans and Credits to India Power Sector
(June 30, 1985) ...................*.........................    37
2.1 NTPC Schedule of Comfissioning of Power Plants ................   38
2.2 NTPC Organizational Structure .................................    40
2.3 NTPC Generation Facilities - Operation Performances ..........    41
3.1 Electricity Generation and Consumption
and Power Supply Position of Western Region .................   42
3.2 Electricity Generation and Consumption
and Power Supply Position of Northern Region ........    44
3.3 Detailed Project Description ..................................   46
3.4  Implementation Schedule ...e.. .. ..... .................   49
3.5 Project Cost Summary .................................   52
3.6  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement ............................    53
4.1  Investment Program ......................    ........   54
4.2  Financing Plan Covering Fiscal Years FY'77 through FY'96 ......   59
4.3 Consolidated Income Statements Covering Operations FY'83
through FY'96                      ..................... ........   60
4.4  Balance Sheets Covering FY'83 through FY'96 ........... .........   61
4.5 Statement of Source and Application of Funds Covering
Operations FY'83 through FY'96 ............. .................   62
4.6 Rate of Return on Net Revalued Assets Covering FY'83
through FY'96 .................. ...    ................. .   63
4.7  Projected Regional Tariffs versus Long-Run Marginal Costs .....   64
4.8 Assumptions for NTPC Financial Projection ............... .......    65
4.9  Commercial Arrangements for Sale of NTPC Power ................   72
5.1  Internal Economic Rate of Return ............. ...................    74
6.1  Related Documents in Project File .............................   79
NAP
IBRD 19105



INDIA
COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
Commercial Energy Resources
1.01    India's principal commercial energy sources comprise coal, oil, gas
hydro and nuclear energy. Of the nonrenewable resources, coal is the most
abundant. Reserves of thermal coal have been estimated at slightly more than
100 billion tons, of which 25 million are proven. Although reserves are
ample, the quality of coal produced is generally low and is deteriorating.
The high ash content, up to 5OZ, increases power station capital and operat-
ing costs and exacerbates the problems that Indian Railways has in moving the
volume of coal required for power generation.  GOI's policy of concentrated
development of pithead stations helps to address the transport problem but
does not reduce the other costs associated with poor coal quality. In any
case this policy is constrained by pollution and water availability. COI
appointed the Fazal Committee to examine the problems of coal supply to
thermal power stations. This committee, which reported in October 1983, made
a large number of recommendations, affecting all aspects of supply from coal
preparation to railway operations (para 1.14); the great majority of these
recommendations have been accepted by GOI. The Bank is supporting GOI's
efforts in this area through its lending to the coal sector.  The Dudhichua
Coal Project includes studies to examine coal linkages and identify potential
improvements in handling and transportation facilities. Coal quality is also
being addressed, particularly through the inclusion of kppropriate quality
incentives in coal supply contracts.
1.02    Proven and probable petroleum reserves comprise approximately 510
million tons of oil and 390 million toe of natural gas. Despite recent
increases in domestic production, India still imports about one third of its
oil requirements, which in FY'84 cost the equivalent of 40Z of its merchan-
dise exports. GOI has therefore given high priority to oil and gas explora-
tion and, at the same time, has implemented measures, including economic
pricing, to restrain the rapidly growing demand for oil products, par-
ticularly middle distillates. In the past, GOI has generally limited natural
gas to premium markets such as petrochemicals and fertilizer; however, delays
in the construction of gas infrastructure have resulted in substantial
volumes of gas being flared. The Bank has encouraged GOI to develop the
necessary infrastructure and to allow other economic uses of gas including



-2-
power generation. In response, COI has begun to invest in pipelines and has
recently revised its policy on the use of gas for power generation
(paras 1.14 and 1.15).
1.03    India's hydroelectric potential is equivalent to about 100,000 MW.
At present only 14,000 MW have been developed, 4,700 MW are under construc-
tion and a further 23,000 MW are being studied for future development. The
prominent role of hydro generation in regional least-cost power development
plans has led GOI to emphasize the need to accelerate hydro development;
however, progress has been slow owing to the lack of financial resources of
states with the greatest hydro potential, the time required to resolve water
rights and environmental issues, and the limited technical resources avail-
able for the simultaneous preparation of a large number of hydro schemes.
Attempts to address these issues through increased central sector involvement
have so far met with limited success (para 1.07).
1.04    The country's uranium reserves could support a modest nuclear program
(8,000 - 10,000 MU), and thorium reserves are enough for a large fast breeder
program. India's nuclear power generating capacity is currently 1,095 MW.
Electricity Supply and Demand
1.05    Almost 60% of India's electricity is generated from coal, 34% from
hydro, and the rest from oil, nuclear energy, and natural gas. Although a
number of thermal projects are planned for the short-term, the shares of
hydro and nuclear are likely to increase in the long run. Electricity losses
have risen slowly but steadily over the last few years and now exceed 26Z of
gross generation. The deteriorating quality of coal has increased sta-
tion-use and the large expansion in very low load density rural electrifica-
tion, together with otherwise inadequate investment in transmission and
distribution, has increased system losses. The Bank has stressed the impor-
tance of balanced investment to reduce system losses and will continue to
support transmission and distribution investments designed to achieve this
objective.
1.06    Over the past two decades, the consumption of electricity has grown
approximately twice as fast as total commercial energy consumption and now
accounts for more than 30% of the latter. Even though the power subsector
receives 20-25% of total public investment, electricity supply has not kept
pace with demand and shortages have been prevalent throughout the country.
During the last five years, shortages have been estimated at, on average,
about 13Z of electricity requirements. The principal sectoral shares of
total electricity consumption are: induscrial, 512; agricultural, 18Z; and
domestic, 9%, (Annex 1.1). Agriculture's share has grown steadily owing to
increased electrical irrigation pumping made possible by rural electrifica-
tion and encouraged by heavy subsidies. Total consumption has grown at an
average annual rate of 8% during the past two decades although the increasing
severity of power shortages suggests that potential demand has grown more



-3-
rapidly. The Central Electricity Authority (CEA) has forecast demand growth
in the range 10-llZ per year between FY85 and FY95 (Annex 1.2). However,
actual growth will continue to be supply constrained.
Organization of the Power Subsector
1.07    Responsibility for the supply of electricity is shared between the
Central and State Governments. The state electricity boards (SEBs) and the
regional electricity boards (REBs) are controlled by states; CEA is
administered by the Department of Power within the Ministry of Energy and the
National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), the National Hydro-Electric Power
Corporation (NHPC), and the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) are
central sector corporations responsible to the Department of Power. SEBs
were instituted under the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (the Act), to
promote the development of the power subsector and to regulate private licen-
sees such as the Tata Electric Companies. Although SEBs are supposed to be
autonomous in managing their day-to-day operations, in practice they are
under the control of State Governments in such matters as capital investment,
tariffs, borrowings, pay, and personnel policies. As a first step towards
national integration, the SEBs have been grouped into five regional systems,
each coordinated by an REB. Coordination responsibilities include overhaul
and maintenance programs, generation schedules, interstate power transfers
and concomitant tariffs. CEA was created in 1950 to develop national power
policy and to coordinate the various agencies involved in supplying elec-
tricity. It is formally responsible for vetting investment proposals,
providing consulting support to SEBs, assisting in the integration of supply
systems, training oi personnel, and tesearch and development. However, in
its execution of these responsibilities, CEA has been severely limited by
shortages of skilled staff and other resources. Without any direct respon-
sibility for the provision of finance it has been unable to assume a very
positive role in the development of the subsector. In view of this, GOI is
contemplating the formation of a Power Finance Corporation to complement CEA
in fostering development of the subsector (para 1.16). NTPC and NHPC were
formed in 1975 to construct and operate large power stations and associated
transmission facilities. They sell bulk power to the SEBs for distribution.
NTPC has had marked success and has grown rapidly. In contrast, NHPC is
still struggling to establish a role for itself; the states control water
rights and are reluctant to relinquish hydro sites to the Center. This has
prompted GOI to explore joint ventures between the Center and states for the
development of hydro schemes. REC was established in 1969 to coordinate
rural electrification and provide financial and technical expertise for SEB
schemes. Currently, REC finances more than 70% of total rural electrifica-
tion investment. At present there is no organization with responsibility for
the development of a national transmission grid, although GOI is contemplat-
ing the formation of such a body (para 1.17).



-4-
Finance and Pricing
1.08    Although four SEBs are estimated to have made a profit in FY'85, the
SEBs as a vhole are astimated to have made a combined loss in that year of
approximately Rs 11,230 million (US$935 million) exclusive of subsidies,
corresponding to a return on historically valued net fixed assets of +2.3%
before interest and -8.1Z after interest. Internal cash generation, which
was equivalent to only about 2.71 of capital expenditure in FY'85, has been
correspondingly poor. Almost all SEB capital expenditure is financed by
debt, primarily loans from state governments. Recognising the unsatisfactory
state of SEB finances GOI has, through an amendment to the Act notified in
April 1985, required SEBs to earn an annual return, after meeting operating
expenses, taxes, depreciation and interest, of at least 3Z on their histori-
cally valued net fixed assets (GOI does not accept the principle of revalua-
tion of assets). The Bank supports this initiative by GOI and has, under the
Chandrapur Thermal Power Project (Loan 2544-IN), changed the form of its
financial covenant to reflect this. Although, in terms of the Bank's conven-
tional method of calculation, the return specified in the Act corresponds to
a modest return on revalued assets in the range of 4 to 6Z, it, nevertheless,
represents a very substantial improvement on current performance. Many SEBs,
particularly those of the poorer states, are expected to experience con-
siderable difficulty achieving this level of performance. NTPC's tariffs are
approximately equal to its long-run marginal costs (LRMC); however, as is to
be expected from their current financial performance, SEB's tariffs do not
adequately reflect LRMCs. An analysis of 1981 SEB tariffs indicated that
they were on average only 521 of LRMC. While adherence to the stipulated
rate of return would improve the overall level of the tariff, the structure
is still unsatisfactory. Tariffs are frequently excessively complex and very
little has been done through tariffs either to achieve load management or to
tap selectively consumers' willingness to pay, where this substantially
exceeds existing tariff levels. At the instigation of the Bank, LRMC tariff
studies were carried out for almost all of the states in the late 1970's.
However, these studies were generally of poor quality and the Bank has since
endeavored to agree with GOI on a methodology for LRMC tariff studies.
Progress has been slow as GOI continues to oppose economic pricing of power
for reasons associated with social and agricultural objectives. In lending
to individual SEB's the Bank will continue to address state-specific programs
to improve resource mobilization, for example, by developing financial
programs capable, as a minimum, of achieving the rate of return specified in
the Act. Where higher returns are both feasible and desirable the Bank will
press state governments to use their discretion under the Act to notify a
higher rate of retuiri. So far as tariff structure is concerned the Bank will
continue to require tariff studies wherever tariff structures appear to be
badly distorted, in order to impress on the relevant authorities the true
costs of cross-subsidisation. This has been done under both the Chandrapur
Thermal Power Project (Loan 2455-IN) and the Kerala State Power Project
(Loan 2582-IN). However, resistance to economic pricing is such that
progress in pricing reform is likely to be slow (para 1.18).



-5-
Power Subsector Planning
1.09    The Bank has consistently encouraged GOI to pursue integrated plan-
ning and coordinated operation of the country's electricity supply systems.
In response, GOI has prepared a set of regional least cost development plans,
published as the National Power Plan (NPP) in 1983. Although the NPP repre-
sents a good first step towards integrated planning, it needs further refine-
ment and regular updating. In addition, such a plan can only lead to effec-
tive improvements if complemented by measures to bring about coordinated
system operation. At present only the Northern Region is achieving this.
GOI is encouraging states to reach the necessary agreements on operating
parameters but progress is likely to be slow so long as severe power
shortages exist. Even if coordinated intra-regional operation is achieved,
inter-regional transfers will be very difficult without the use of direct
current facilities to overcome problems of frequency control. The first such
facility, a link between Northern and Western Regions, is being financed by
the Dank under the Central Power Transmission Project Loan 2283-IN). A
second direct current link has been included in the Rihand Power Trans:ssion
Project (Loan 2535-IN). . To facilitate further integration GOI has agreed,
under the latter project, to undertake a study of the long-term development
of a national transmission system and to examine related institutional and
commercial issues. Disparities between the long-term NPP, national five-year
plans, short-term budgets and actual performance have been substantial.
Owing to the lack of resources, fewer projects have been included in the
five-year plans than in the NPP and, as a result of inadequate allowance for
escalation and delays in project implementation, still fewer have been
executed. Consequently, the shortage of power has become more acute and,
over the next decade, India expects its power deficit to increase substan-
tially. This deficit has undermined rational planning by encouraging rapid
expansion of supply rather than least-cost development; for example, shorter
gestation thermal plant has been favored at the expense of lower cost hydro.
Furthermore, it has prompted overinvestment in captive plant, a second best
measure leading to excessive use of high-value petroleum products for power
generation. In addition to supporting GOI's efforts to increase the supply
of power, the Bank will continue to stress to GOI the role of pricing and
load management in eliminating the deficit, and the importance of integrating
planning and pricing.
Management and Operations
1.10    In contrast to the good performance of NTPC, the SEBs' management and
operational capabilities have not kept pace with the expansion of supply. In
general, SEBs have adequately qualified engineering staff, but lack
expeiienced personnel in financial planning and control. The relatively low
status and pay of these personnel exacerbates the already significant pay
differential between the public and private sectors and makes it difficult to
recruit competent staff. Management practices are generally outmoded and



inadequate. Accounts have been maintained principally to track cash receipts
and expenditures, and there has been little use of accounting information for
managerial purposes. Consequently, the Bank has encouraged GOI to develop a
new uniform accounting system for SEBs. After initial delays, implementation
i.s now proceeding. In addition, the Bank will continue to support institu-
tional development programs through lending to individual SEBs.
1.11    The operations of many SEBs are hampered by the poor condition of
their plant and equipment. Factors that have contributed to the poor state
of thermal plant include inadequate maintenance (due to capacity shortages),
deficiencies in manufacture, lack of spares, and the poor quality of coal; in
general, these problems have been recognized by the relevant authorities and
corrective steps are being taken. Distribution systems have suffered from
inadequate maintenance and overloading owing to inadequate investment.
Rehabilitation, particularly of thermal plant and distribution networks,
appears to be a very cost-effective way to improve efficiency and system
capacity. GOI is currently preparing a rehabilitation program for thermal
plant but is less able to effect improvements in distribution. The Bank will
continue, whenever appropriate, to include rehabilitation components under
loans made to SEBs.
GOI's Strategy in the Power Subsector
1.12    In essence the Five Year Plan constitutes the only formal statement
of GOI's energy and power policies.  Although formalisation of power policy,
in particular, is made difficult by the constitutional arrangement in which
responsibility for power is shared between Center and states (para 1.07),
the Seventh Plan, nonetheless, reflects a broad consensus of the objectives
of energy and power policies. The principal objectives of GOI's energy
policy may be summarized as to: (a) develop energy supplies economically at
a rate cowmensurate with growth in the economy and social needs;
(b) substitute indigenous energy resources for imported petroleum wherever
this is both technically and economically feasible; and (c) encourage the
rational and efficient use of energy resources. Although power policy is
governed by essentially the same objectives, alleviation (or at least con-
tainment) of acute power shortages suffered nationwide dominates GOI's
short-term strategy. Over the longer term, achievement of least-cost
development assumes greater importance. In addition to the initial steps of
its long-term strategy, GOI's short-term strategy provides for a number of
specific measures to address power shortages, including:
(a)  rehabilitation of thermal plant - a program involving some 30 plants
is currently being finalized (para 1.11);
(b)  accelerating the implementation of ongoing projects - a recent
reorganization of Government created a new ministry specifically
to monitor and improve implementation of public sector projects;



-7-
(c)  permitting industries to invest in captive generation;
(d)  permitting the construction of shorter gestation gas or oil-fired
plants (para 1.02), for example the proposed Project; and
(e)  improving the quality and reliability ef coal supplies, through
implementation of the majority of the recommendations of the Fazal
Committee (para 1.01).
1.13    GOI's long-term strategy requires a blend of policies designed to
address investment, organizationall institutional and financiaL issues. With
respect to investment policy, resource constraints will severely limit the
quantum of investment available to the power subsector. The Seventh Plan
allocation is almost exactly half the sum sought by the Working Group on
Power, a sum which was itself inadequate to eliminate power shortages.
However, broad agreement within India has been reached on qualitative aspects
of long-term investment policy which will emphasize:
(a)  accelerated hydro development (para 1.03);
(b)  an increased proportion of investment in transmission and
distribution (para 1.05);
Cc)  the formation of a national grid (para 1.09);
(d)  coal beneficiation to improve both quality and homogeneity
(para 1.01);
Ce)  diversification of the modes in which coal for power generation
is transported, possible examples include the introduction of
coastal shipping or slurry pipelines;
Cf) diversification of the fuels used for power generation, GOI now
recognizes that gas fired plant, especially combined cycle, has an
economic role to play in system development (para 1.02); and
(g)  steady growth in the development of nuclear power (para 1.04).
1.14    Long-term organizational/institutional and financial issues are more
controversial and GOI still needs to identify clearly defined strategies in
these areas. GOI recognizes the institutional and financial weakness of many
of the SEBs but constitutional constraints limit the rate at which the Center
can bring about improvement. Measures which GOI is following include:
(a) increasing the role of efficient central sector institutions,
particularly NTPC (para 1.07);



(b) implementation of a uniform system of commercial accounting for
all SEBs (para 1.10);
(c) requiring, through recent amendment of the Act, that SEBs earn a
rate of return of 3Z after all expenses and interest (para 1.08),
a significantly more stringent financial requirement than
hitherto; and
(d) a more receptive treatment of private sector proposals for power
generation, particularly when it can be demonstrated that such
developments are mobilizing resources which would not otherwise
be available to the public sector.
In addition, GOI is contemplating the formation of a Power Finance Corpora-
tion as a financial intermediary serving the subsector. Funds lent by the
Corporation r'ould be attractive to SEBs because, at least in part, they would
be additional to agreed plan outlays. However, loans would be subject to
conditionality designed to improve the efficiency and financial strength of
beneficiaries.
1.15    GOI recognises that the development and operation of an integrated
national grid will be difficult to achieve with the present organization of
the subsector and, as previously noted (para 1.07), COI is contemplating the
formation of a separate body with responsibility for the grid. However, many
commercial and institutional problems remain and, as yet, GOI has no strategy
for their solution; although, under the Rihand Power Transmission Project,
GOI has accepted that these aspects of grid development need to be addressed
(para 1.09).
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Subsector
1.16    The Bank supports the elements of GOI's strategy identified above but
feels that, while each of these elements is desirable, they do not address
all of the serious deficiencies in the subsector. In particular, additional
efforts are needed to address problems in the areas of planning, pricing/load
management, institutional development and finance. The prevalent nature of
these problems suggests that a sector-wide approach should be sought.
However, the comparative autonomy of the states/SEBs from the Center makes it
difficult to achieve progress in this way. With the exception of the intro-
duction of uniform commercial accounting in SEBs, few improvements at the
state level have been realized through umbrella projects coordinated by CEA
or REC, primarily owing to the very weak control that these institutions are
able to exercise over SEBs. Consequently, the Bank is changing the mix of
its lending to the subsector away from umbrella projects, coordinated by CEA
or REC, towards a more direct involvement with individual SEBs, where
state-specific programs can be designed to address areas of deficiency.
Initial experience with individual SEBs suggests that the prospects for
improvement are encouraging in most areas except pricing. Despite espousing



-9-
energy prices "which reflect true costs" in both the Sixth and Seventh Plans,
GOI and the states have, until now, opposed the principle of economic pricing
of power, for reasons associated with social and agricultural objectives
(para 1.08). The Bank will continue to press for improvements in both pric-
ing and the other areas identified above, e.g. through finan-ial recovery
and institutional development programs tailored to the requirements of
individual SEBs. However, as indicated earlier (para 1.08), there is con-
siderable resistance to financial reforms within the sector. While the Bank
Group will continue to encourage the Central and State Government to improve
the financial performance and viability of the SEBs, it is beginning, as a
matter of strategy, to work only with those SEBs that are prepared to intro-
duce measures to bring about improvements in their financial condition and
performance.
1.17    In parallel with lending to individual SEBs the Bank proposes con-
tinued support for expansion of the central sector, because: (a) increased
reliance of the states on central sector generation appears to be the best
way to encourage decisions at the state level consistent with the national
interest; and (b) a high proportion of central sector generation sold at
economic tariffs will help to improve tariffs to final consumers. The dif-
ficulties that GOI has experienced in bringing hydro projects into the
central sector mean that NTPC will continue to be the main vehicle for the
Bank's support of the central sector. NTPC's record to date is impressive.
However, it is still far from being a mature institution and, owing to its
rapid development, it will continue to face problems in which it could
benefit from Bank support. As far as CEA is concerned, the Bank feels that a
review of its organization and functions would now be timely and, in its
dialogue with GOI, the Bank will discuss the possibility of such a review,
coupled with technical assistance to improve CEA's capability to meet its
responsibilities, which may require redefinition as a result of the review
(para 1.07).
1.18    In addition to ridressing areas in which GOI's strategy appears
deficient, it is approl. ate that the Bank should focus on aspects of the
strategy already adopted, where the Bank can do most to catalyze progress.
In this respect specific aspects identified include:
(a) the formation of the national grid - the Bank will continue to
support projects such as the Central and Rihand Power Transmission
Projects, the latter will afford the Bank the opportunity for an
active involvement in studies of long-term transmission development
(para 1.09);
(b) accelerated hydro development - by broadening lending operations
to encompass individual SEBs the Bank is able to support hydro
projects and, where the additionality of the Bank's funds to plan
outlays is crucial, it is able to bring about developments which
might not otherwise take place; and



-10-
(c) elements of strategy that involve concerted action by organizations,
both inside and outside the power subsector - the Bank can
coordinate its own lending operations within the different
subsectors in order to improve intersectoral cooperation. Priority
examples concern improvements in coal quality and transportation,
and the use of natural gas for power generation.
Bank Group Participation
1.19    The Bank has made 21 loans (US$2,709 million) and 17 IDA credits
(US$2,409 million) for Indian power projects (Annex 1.3). Nineteen projects
have been completed: 12 generation, 5 transmission, and 2 rural electrifica-
tion. Projects currently under implementation include 11 generation, 3 of
which are hydro, 2 transmission, 1 rural electrification, and the Kerala
Power Project, the most recent project to be approved by the Bank, which
includes a broad spectrum of generation, transmission and distribution. With
respect to NTPC projects, the first-phase projects at Singrauli, Korba, and
Ramagundam were commissioned on or ahead of schedule. The second-phase
extension at these sites, the Farakka and the Rihand Power Transmission
Projects are proceeding satisfactorily. The Third Rural Electrification
Project, which has suffered significant procurement problems, is about two
years behind schedule.
1.20    A performance audit conducted in 1980 for the Second Power Transmis-
sion Project (Credit 242-IN) concluded that the project succeeded in helping
the nine SEBs extend their transmission systems to meet their growing power
requirements. Utilization of generating capacity in these SEBs exceeded the
appraisal forecast. However, the audit highlighted the difficulties of
effecting institutional improvements in the absence of a close working
relationship between the Bank and beneficiary SEBs.



-1l-
II. THE BENEFICIARY - NATIONAL THERKAL POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
2.01    NTPC, the beneficiary of the proposed loan, was established in 1975
an a publicly owned utility, under the general supervision of the Ministry of
Energy. It is responsible for designing, constructing, and operating large
thermal power stations and transmission lines, and for the sale of power
generated to the SEBs. NTPC has broad powers to carry out its operations
except for decisions on investment plans and financing which require Govern-
ment approval before implementation. NTPC is also subject to periodic
examination by the Committee on Public Undertakings, a body established by
GOI to monitor the performance of public sector enterprises.
Existing Facilities and Development Program
2.02    NTPC commenced generating electricity in 1982 and, by the end of
FY85, operated 11 new 200 MW units (5 at Singrauli, 3 at Korba and 3 at
Ramagundam) and 2,130 km of 400-kV transmission lines. In addition, it has
under construction 7 power plants with a total capacity of 810C MW and
11,000 km of transmission lines; NTPC also operates the 720 MW Badarpur
station near Delhi, and is responsible for construction of the 270 MW captive
power station being established at Korba for the Bharat Aluminium Company, on
a management-fee basis. NTPC has formulated a corporate development plan for
the period 1986-2000 reflecting NTPC projects identified in the NPP
(Annex 2.1). Although the plan is feasible in terms of NTPC's technical
capability, it is likely to be revised downwards to reflect the resources
allocated to NTPC in the Seventh Plan, which is presently being finalized.
Organization and Management
2.03    In response to the rapid increase in NTPC's operational and construc-
tion activities, a study to develop a decentralized organizational structure
was initiated in 1981, with assistance from power utilities/ consultants in
the UK and the USA. On the basis of this study, NTPC adopted a regional
organizational structure in August 1982, with each Region under the charge of
an executive director responsible for the design, construction and operation
or generation and transmission facilities. Regional headquarters have been
established for:
(a) the Northern Region, with responsibility for the power stations at
Singrauli and Rihand, together with the associated transmission
system;
(b) the National Capital Region, with responsibility for the power
station at Badarpur and the planned station at Muradnagar;



-12-
(c)  the Western Region, with responsibility for the power stations at
Korba and Vindhyachal, together with the associated transmission
system;
(d)  the Southern Region, with responsibility for the power station at
Ramagundam and the Southern Regional Transmission System;
(e)  the Eastern Region with responsibility for power stations at Farakka,
Kahalgaon and Talcher, together with the associated transmission
systen,.
Recently, NTPC has centralized design and procurement in order to utilize
trained manpower more efficiently. It has also created the post of Director
(Projects and Operations) to ensure that adequate attention is given to power
plant operations.
2.04    With decentralization, the corporate headquarters is progressively
concentrating its role on policy-making and the provision of functional
guidance to the Regions and operating divisions. The principal corporate
functions are finance, personnel and administration, planning and monitoring
design, procurement and commercial. The finance, personnel and design groups
are headed by Directors who are members of NTPC's Board. The procurement
group is responsible to the Executive Director (Corporate Contracts and
Materials). The planning and monitoring group reports to the Chairman and
Managing Director and the commercial group to Director Finance. The present
corporate organization structure is shown in Annex 2.2.
Recruitment and Training
2.05    Recruitment is progressing satisfactorily and is expected to meet
NTPC's expanding operational needs. By April 1985, NTPC had about 14,200
employees. This number is expected to reach about 32,000 by the end of
FY'90. Initially, NTPC emphasized the recruitment and training of execu-
tives, engineers and supervisors, who account at present for nearly 40X of
its staff. However, with the increase in operating plant, the emphasis has
been gradually shifting toward the recruitment and training of skilled
workmen and plant operators, who will account for about 70% of staff by
FY'90. Training centers have been established at NTPC's plant locations.
These centers, with workshops, training materials, and hostel facilities, are
designed to train young graduates, diploma holders and operating staff. NTPC
also provides specialized training in management and other aspects of the
power sector at the Centre for Education in Power Management in Delhi, the
Central Institute of Training at Badarpur and other academic institutions.
In addition, specific programs are organized in collaboration with power
organizations of international repute, e.g. the Central Electricity Gener-
ating Board (U.K.).



-13-
Performance
2.06    NTPC's construction performance has been satisfactory with most of
the generating units and transmission lines being completed within the
planned construction time. Such delays as have arisen in projects have been
primarily due to delays in placement of orders for the major equipment
(boiler and turbo-generators) and not in actual construction. Transition
from construction to operation is also being carried out successfully. ?TPC
has, with the assistance of Central Electricity Generating Board (U.K.),
prepared detaiLed procedures for plant commissioning, operation and main-
tenance. Major emphasis has been placed on the introduction of maintenance
planning using computers and standard work procedures. Generating units under
operation have achieved satisfactory generation levels (Annex 2.3). A
Research and Development unit has been established to carry out applied
research and to assist in outage analysis.



-14-
III. THE PROJECT
Project Setting
3.01    India's chronic power shortages together with the slow progress in
the implementation of hydro projects (para 1.03) have led to an emphasis on
coal-fired generation projects. Consequently, over the past 14 years the
annual consumption of coal used in power generation has risen from 15 million
tons to 65 million tons. This expansion has placed a severe burden on both
the coal industry and the railways with the consequence that deterioratidg
coal quality and transportation problems have increasingly affected the
operation of power plants (para 1.01). In order to relieve some of the
pressure on the coal and transport sectors, which would result from increased
reliance on coal-fired plants, the Bank has encouraged COI to review its gas
policy, which has in the past reserved gas for uses such as fertilizer and
petrochemicals (para 1.02). Economic opportunities to extend the uses of gas
are provided by the development of the large South Bassein and satellite gas
fields, together with associated gas from the Bombay High field. Natural gas
production could triple or quadruple in the next decade. A priori, use of
such gas for power generation would be attractive for parts of the Northern
and Western Regions which are remote from both the coal fields in the east of
India and the hydro resources in the far north. To provide the infrastruc-
ture necessary for the use of gas, OI has decided to construct a 1,700 km
gas pipeline from Hazira to Jagdishpur, the HBJ pipeline, which will traverse
the states of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, with a spur into
Rajasthan (Kap IBRD 19105). Although the initial purpose of the pipeline was
to supply gas to six fertilizer plants and a number of liquid petroleum
gas (LPG) plants, the prevailing power shortages in both regions (Annexes 3.1
and 3.2) and difficulties in coal transport make short gestation, high
efficiency, gas or liquid fueled combined cycle plants attractive. In the
light of this, OI has agreed to allow the use of gas for power generation
and has sanctioned three combined cycle stations with a total capacity of
about 1,500 MW. These would be located at Kawas in Cujarat, Anta in Rajas-
than and Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh.
Project Objectives
3.02    The objectives of the proposed Project are to:
(a) provide power in the Northern and Western Regions which are currently
suffering acute power shortages;
(b) diversify the fuels used in power generation, through the use of gas
or liquid fuels, in regions which are short of hydro and coal resour-
ces;
(c) relieve pressures on the railway and coal sectors; and



-15-
(d) introduce into India combined cycle technology which would provide
an efficient, reliable, flexible and economic source of power.
Project Description
3.03    The proposed Project consists of:
(a) three combined cycle power stations at Kawas (Gujarat), Anta (Rajas-
than), and Auraiya (Uttar Pradesh), comprising combustion tur-
bogenerators, heat recovery boilers, and steam turbogenerators, with
a total installed capacity of about 1,500 NW (site rated); electrical
and mechanical auxiliary equipment; and the provision of associated
civil works and ancillary facilities;
(b) about 950 km of 220-kV and 375 km of 400-kV single- and
double-circuit transmission lines connecting: the Kawas station with
Navsari, Baruch, and Valthan in Gujarat; the Anta station with Bhil-
wara, and Dausa in Rajasthan; and the Auraiya station with Agra and
Ballabgarh in Uttar Pradesh; together with new or extended substa-
tions and associated auxiliaries; and
(c) technical assistance for the engineering, testing and commissioning
of the combined cycle power stations.
Details are described in Annex 3.3.
Fuel Supply
3.04    The power stations which comprise the proposed Project will burn
primarily gas but will be constructed with provision for the use of liquid
fuels in order to maximize flexibility. Cas supplies will come principally
from the South Bassein field which has reserves of about 205 billion cubic
meters and is being developed under Bank financing (Loan 2241-IN). The field
has recently been connected to the mainland at Hazira, which is the site for
the gas treatment plant and is close to the proposed Kawas power station.
From Hazira, gas will be transported by the BRJ pipeline to inland consumers
which include six fertilizer plants and the proposed Anta and Auraiya power
stations. The HBJ pipeline, which was appraised by the Bank, is to be imple-
mented and operated by the Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL), a public
sector corporation responsible to the Kinistry of Petroleum. GAIL has
recently awarded contracts for the supply of pipes and tenders have been
received for a turnkey contract for all associated equipment and pipeline
construction. GAIL expect. to award this contract very shortly. The planned
construction timetable is consistent with NTPC's schedule for the three
combined cycle units (para 3.08). In order to ensure coordinated development
of the HBJ pipeline and the combined cycle units, confirmation by GOI that
the contract for the pipeline construction has been awarded, would be a



-16-
condition of effectiveness for the proposed loan (para 6.01(a)). In addition
GOI agreed that disbursement under the loan would be conditional on signature
of the pipeline construction contract by October 31, 1986 (para 6.02(a)).
At the moment OOI's plans for fertilizer development are such that it can
only guarantee 4 million cubic meters per day (MMCMD) of gas for the proposed
Project as against the 6 MMCMD required for complete gas operation of the
three combined cycle plants. However, the fertilizer plans on which this
is predicated appear overoptimistic and, in addition, Bank Industry Depart-
ment data indicate that the specific consumption of the fertilizer factories
has been overestimated. It therefore seems very likely that a full 6 MMCMD
of gas will be available for power generation. However, in view of the
possible shortfall, provision will, as previously noted, be made for Liquid
fuel operation. The Bank is satisfied that, in the absence of gas
(para 5.02), such operation would be economically justified. In any case
provision for liquid fuels (natural gas liquids (NGL) or naphtha) is
desirable in order to cater for possible interruptions to gas supplies.
During negotiations GOI gave an assurance that 4 MMCMD of gas wiLl be made
available for the proposed Project and that, to the extent that a full 6
MNCMD of gas is not available, liquid fuels will be made available (para
6.02(b)>.
3.05    To date GOI has not made a formal decision on the way in which gas
will be priced for power generation. However, during appraisal of the HBJ
pipeline, GOI has intimated that the price of gas for uses other than fer-
tilizer would be based on fuel oil parity, which at this time was
approximately Rs 1,800 per thousand cubic meters (MCM). At least in the
medium term, a price related to fuel oil would adequately cover the estimated
economic opportunity cost of gas and, in so far as this price may exceed the
opportunity cost, it would not cause significant economic distortion (higher
plant availability would still leave gas as the preferred fuel) and it would
be desirable for reasons of resource mobilization. During negotiations GOI
corfirmed that the minimum price of gas supplied to the proposed Project will
be based on fuel oil Parity (para 6.02(c)). In addition, GOI and NTPC gave
an undertaking that supply contracts between NTPC and the appropriate
authorities for the supply of gas for the operation of the proposed Project
will be concluded at least six months prior to the commissioning of the first
combustion turbine under the proposed Project. The supply contract will be
furnished to the Bank for prior review and comment (para 6.03(a)).
Engineering and Construction
3.06    NTPC has considerable experience in installing and operating thermal
power stations and associated high voltage transmission systems. However,
combined cycle units will introduce a new technology and the corporation does
not yet have tne appropriate expertise. Although NTPC has prepared the
bidding documents, it will need assistance in defining performance criteria,
evaluating bids, finalizing the design proposed by the selected bidder, and
in monitoring the manufacture, testing and commissioning of equipment. NTPC



-17-
would engage consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, to assist them in per-
forming these tasks. These technical services, estimated at about 170
man-months, would be financed under the proposed Project. NTPC has adequate
experience in the design and construction of 220-kV and 400-kV transmission
lines.
3.07    The stations at Kawas and Auraiya will be located close to the gas
pipeline, while, owing to difficulties in water supply, the Anta station will
require a spur pipeline of about 16 km. Cooling water will be supplied from
irrigation canals with the installation of pondages in order to secure water
availability during periods of maintenance. In order to reduce water con-
sumption the stations will be equipped with cooling towers. The three sta-
tions will be located close to major roads and railways, which will
facilitate transport of equipment and materials during construction and
liquid fuels, if required, during operation. NTPC is establishing a new
division responsible for the implementation of the proposed Project. However,
design and procurement for the Project would be carried out by specialized
groups in the respective functional divisions of NTPC. Construction would be
supervised and coordinated by resident engineers with the assistance of
consultants as necessary. NTPC will arrange for the timely training of
operations and maintenance staff either through the equipment contracts or
with utilities operating similar plants.
Project Preparation and Implementation Schedule
3.08    NTPC has completed the basic design for the proposed Project.  Bids
for the major equipment package (combustion turbogenerators, heat recovery
boilers, and steam turbogenerators) were invited in February 1986 and the
award is expected to be announced in December 1986. Land acquisition is
currently proceeding. Project completion is expected in 1990. The detailed
implementation schedule for the proposed Project is shown in Annex 3.4.
Project Costs
3.09    The estimated cost of the proposed Project, including contingencies
but excluding duties and taxes, is Rs 14,490 million (US$1,114.0 million).
Taxes and duties would amount to about Rs 1,653 million (US$127.3 million).
Interest during construction adds Rs 582 million (US$44.7 million) to the
financing required. The direct and indirect foreign currency costs are
estimated at about Rs 9,190 miLlion (US$706 million), equivalent to 55X of
the total financing required. The estimated costs of the Project are set out
in Annex 3.5 and suimmarized in Table 3.1.



-18-
Table 3.1: Estimated Project Costs /a
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
---Rs Million ------    --US$ million-
Preliminary and Civil Works      779       57      836      59.9     4.4      64.3
Main Electromechanical         2,066   5,346    7,412    158.9   411.2    570.1
Equipment
Auxiliary Electromechanical      879   1,050    1,929       67.6    80.8    148.4
Equipment
Fuel Supply Equipment             57      117       174      4.4     9.0      13.4
Transmission System            1,431      196    1,627    110.1    15.1    125.2
Consultancy and                    73      68       141      5.6     5.2      10.8
Technical Assistance
Engineering and                  809        -      809      62.2     -        62.2
Administration
Total Base Cost                6,094   6,834   12,928    468.7   525.7    994.4
Physical Contingencies           316      358      674      24.2    27.5      51.7
Price Contingencies,           1,070   1,471    2,541       82.8   112.4    195.2
Total Project Cost             7,480   8,663   16,143    575.7   665.6  1,241.3
Interest during
Construction
Bank                         -        488      488       -      37.4      37.4
Other                         55       39       94       4.3     3.0       7.3
Total Financing Required       7,535   9,190   16,725    580.0   706.0  1,286.0
/a Figures may not add due to rounding.
For the combined cycle units, estimates are based on indicative proposals
made by firms with extensive experience in combined cycle installation and
are comparable with recent prices for similar works in other countries. Cost
estimates for other equipment and materials are based on the most recent
quotations received for similar projects with prices updated to end-1985
levels. The estimated cost of consulting services is based on current
experience with other projects in India. The cost of the technical assis-
tance for overseas training was determined on the basis of standard prices
provided by internationally reputable firms. Physical contingencies of 10Z
on civil works and 5% on equipment were assumed on the basis of experience
with similar projects and are considered adequate. Price contingencies for
local costs are assumed at 7.0% for FY86, 7.52 annually for FY87 to FY90, and
5.0% per year thereafter. Price contingencies for foreign costs are assumed



-19-
at 7.5X for FY86, 8Z annually from FY87 to FY90, and 5X per year thereafter.
Interest during construction reflects the progressive comissioning of each
power station.
Project Financing
3.10    The proposed Bank loan of US$485.0 million would provide 43Z of the
total project cost net of duties and taxes, equivalent to 692 of the
estimated foreign cost of the project. The balance of the foreign exchange
financing requirement, amounting to about US$221.0 million is expected to be
met from external borrowing or COI foreign exchange reserves. The remainder
will be met by NTPC's internal cash generation plus equity and loans from
GOI. Table 3.2 shows the propos'ed financing plan.
TabLe 3.2: Project Financing Plan
Local      Foreign       Total
(US$ million)-- -----
IBRD Loan                             -         485.0        485.0
GOI/External Borrowing              475.2       221.0        696.2
NTPC                                104.8         -          104.8
580.0       706.0      1,286.0
COI may also consider suppliers' or export credits for the major equipment
items if a successful bidder or other agency provides an acceptable financing
proposal for the lowest evaluated bid in cash terms. In this event, GOI's
contribution to project financing will be reduced accordingly, and the Bank
would seek to reallocate its contribution toward the financing of these items
to other items in the project, as appropriate.
Procurement
3.11    Procurement arrangements for the proposed Project are summarized in
Table 3.3. The major equipment and works for the combined cycle units, which
are estimated to cost US$893 million, of which US$645 million is expected to
be in foreign currency, would be grouped for each station in a single
supply-and-erection contract subject to ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Auxiliary equipment for the power station and equipment
associated with the transmission facilities, estimated cost US$265 million,
would be grouped in different packages subject to LCB, these items will not
be financed by the Bank. As a result about 72Z of works, goods and services
for the proposed Project would be procured under ICB.



-20-
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million /a
Project Element                             Procurement Method /b
I.   Civil Works                         ICB       LCB      Other       Total
Preliminary Works                                       4.3          4.3
Plants Civil Works                  23.7                            23.7
( 5.5)                         ( 5.5)
Other Civil Works                             57.9                  57.9
II. Power Plants
Main Electromechanical
Equipment (Supply & Erection)   852.3                            852.3
(463.0)                        (463.0)
Other Electromechanical
Equipment & Works                           34.3                  34.3
III.   Fuel Supply Equipment                17.3                           17.3
( 11.3)                        ( 11.3)
IV.   Transmission Lines and                       172.9                 172.9
Substations
V. Consulting Services and
Technical Assistance                                 11.2         11.2
(  5.2)     (  5.2)
VI.   Engineering and Administration                         67.4         67.4
TOTAL                              893.3    265.1      82.9      1,241.3
(479.8)           C  5.2)      (485.0)
7a Figures in parenthesis indicate the amount to be financed by the Bank.
/b   ICB:   International Competitive Bidding
LCB:   Local Competitive Bidding
Other: Direct negotiation or not subject to commercial procurement
(e.g. land acquisition, owner expenses)
Documents for individual contracts above US$3.5 million equivalent would be
subject to prior review by the Bank. Suppliers competing for contracts for
supply and erection of goods under ICB will have a 15% preference or the
applicable duty, whichever is less on the locally manufactured goods and
materials. Consultants for project employed in accordance with Bank



-21-
guidelines. Expenditures covering consultancy services incurred since
July 1, 1985, and prior to loan signing will be financed retroactively up to
an amount of US$1 million.
Disbursement
3.12    Disbursement from the proposed loan would be made against 100% of
the cif (ex-factory if manufactured in India) cost of equipment and materials
procured under ICB, 40Z of the civil and erection works, and 100% of the cost
of consultancy. The estimated schedule of disbursements is provided in Annex
3.6. The disbursement prcfile for the proposed Project is much faster than
the Bank's standard profile for a power project in India, fishoralf years as
opposed to ten, but this is reasonable given the weight of coal-fired power
stations in the latter. The Bank is satisfied that the proposed profile
reflects worldwide experience in combined cycle construction, NTPC's
implementation capabilities, and the advanced stage of project preparation.
Ecology
3.13    The operation of the three stations at full capacity should present
no environmental problems. The available natural gas, after sweetening
consists of almost pure methane with an insignificant sulphur content and no
other harmful components. There would be neither atmospheric pollution nor
ash disposal requirements. If liquid fuels are required, those which are
most likely to be supplied (NGL or naphtha) have a low sulphur content and
should not present an environmental problem. Satisfactory environmental
clearances have been obtained for the operation of each plant in the proposed
Project covering the use of both gas and liquid fuel and, during nego-
tiations, NTPC gave an undertaking to operate the plants included in the
proposed Project in accordance with environmental standards prescribed by GOI
(para 6.04ta)). Owing to the relatively small size of the steam units and the
installation of cooling towers, the water requirement for each station can
easily be drawn from irrigation canals i-ithout reducing the quantity allo-
cated to other consumers. Safety regulations for power stations will be
strictly enforced, as they are in existing NTPC stations which have a good
safety record. The combustion turbines will be equipped with adequate
silencing equipment and the turbine halls of the steam turbo-generator com-
ponents will have a sound pressure level of less than the maximum acceptable
threshold of 90 decibels. Transmission lines will be designed to keep radio
interference within acceptable limits.
Project Risks
3.14    No unusual risks are foreseen.  Combined cycle units are a standard
type of installation which require limited civil works and relatively little
assembly on site. Risk of damage due to fire, explosion, etc. would be
covered by the respective contractors during the construction phase, and,



-22-
after commissioning, by NTPC, through its insurance policies which are satis-
factory.
Project Monitoring
3.15    NTPC will submit quarterly reports covering the works of the consult-
ants, physical progress, costs, disbursements and administrative aspects of
the proposed Project. In addition, there will be annual financial and
administrative reports.



-23-
IV. FINANCE
Accounting Organization and Systems
4.01    In 1979 NTPC,;assisted by A.F. Ferguson Co. (India), designed and
subsequently implemented well conceived systems for financial and cost
accounting, contract accounting and management, inventory control, billing,
fixed assets accounting, and payroll. The corporation has established
decentralized autonomous accounting organizations at the site of each plant
in operation. A.F. Ferguson Co. has monitored the implementation of these
systems and has assisted in the training of accounting staff. Well designed
management information and budgetary control systems were also introduced in
1979 and these have been effective in providing the inputs needed for plan-
ning and monitoring. An internal audit unit has been established with ade-
quate systems and qualified staff. Training of accounting staff is well
organized, and recruitment of qualified staff is adequate to meet forecast
requirements.
Past Financial Performance
4.02    NTPC initiated its investment program in FY'78 and commercial opera-
tions in FY'83. Operations during FY'83 were minimal owing to stabilization
of the new generating units. Despite this, net earnings of Rs 46 million for
FY'83 compared favorably with Rs 45 million previously forecast. NTPC's
financial performance for FY'84 is presented in Annex 4.3. Sales revenue for
that year was Rs 1,398 million, representing an increase of Rs 96 million
(7Z) over previous projections. The higher revenue was due to increased
energy sales, 3,835 CWh compared to 3,675 CWh previously forecast, and higher
tariffs, 36.45 compared to 35.45 paise per kWh projected. Total operating
expenses of Rs 723 million were the same as previously projected, due to
lower operations and maintenance costs and lower depreciation offsetting
completely the increase in fuel costs of Rs 164 million over the previous
forecast. The higher fuel bill was attributable to: increased generation;
an unanticipated increase in the price of oal; and increased reliance on oil
to compensate for shortages of coal during the monsoon period. NTPC is
taking measures to stock-pile coal at each station to ensure an uninterrupted
supply and thereby reduce the consumption of oil. Operations and maintenance
costs and depreciation were lower than projected as a consequence of slippage
in the initial commercial operation of newly commissioned power stations.
NTPC capitalizes costs, other than fuel, during the period between commis-
sioning and commercial operation. Similarly, depreciation is charged to
operations only for assets that are under commercial operation. As a result
of the above variances, operating income of Rs 675 million for FY'84 exceeded
the previous forecast by Rs 96 million (17%), yielding a financial rate of
return on unrevalued assets of 11.3Z. The rate of return compares favorably
with the 7Z minimum required for FY'85-90 under Loans 2442-IN and 2555-IN and
corresponds to a rate of return on revalued assets of approximately 5.4Z for



-24-
FY'84, which is satisfactory for a relatively young utility. Net profits of
Rs 449 million exceeded the previous projections by Rs 253 miLlion, owing to
the favorable variance in operating income and a decrease in interest expense
on GOI loans.
4.03    Cash generation as a percentage of investment, was 5Z in FY'83 and 3%
in FY'84 (Annex 4.2). The low contribution to investment was solely due to
the scale of existing operations compared to the very large investment
program. Capacity under operation is currently 27X of capacity under con-
struction (para 2.02).
4.04    NTPC's collection of accounts receivable has been unsatisfactory.
As of December 31, 1985, outstanding receivables represented about 3.8 months
sales. Under the bulk supply contracts governing the sale of NTPC's power,
customers are required to open irrevocable revolving letters of credit for an
amount equivalent to one month's power purchases and to remit payment for
power purchases not covered by letters of credit within 30 days of receiving
bills from NTPC. At present, all of the customers in the Northern, Western
and Southern Regions have opened letters of credit except for the SEBs of
Rajasthan and Haryana and the Electricity Department of the Union Territory
of Goa. NorT of NTPC's customers in the Eastern Region. has yet done so as
bulk supply contracts for these were concluded only recently and the Farakka
plant is yet to be commissioned. It was agreed during negotiations that
letters of credit for the remaining customers would be opened within six
months (para 6.04(b)). In regard to the letters of credit already opened by
NTPC customers, the amounts of these in most instances are less than the
amounts required by the terms of the bulk supply agreements. NTPC agreed
during negotiations that all necessary steps would be taken to obtain from
its regular customers, to whom power has been allocated, revised letters of
credit reflecting the equivalent monthly value of their power allocations
(para 6.04(b)). With regard to the arrears arising from sales of electricity
prior to the bulk supply agreements, when electricity was sold at interim
rates subject to subsequent adjustment, NTPC has furnished to the Bank
timetables providing for the repayment of these arrears by March 1987. During
negotiations NTPC agreed to take all steps necessary to maintain its accounts
receivable, arising from sales of electricity subsequent to the conclusion of
bulk supply agreements, at a level not exceeding an amount equivalent to the
proceeds of its power sales for the two preceeding months (para 6.04(c)).
4.05    NTPC's fixed assets as of March 31, 1984 amounted to Rs 22,794 mil-
lion, comprising work-in-progress of Rs 13,767 million and plant in operation
of Rs 9,197 million (Annex 4.4). The debt to equity ratio of 26/74 is satis-
factory. Net working capital at March 31, 1984 was negative (Rs 359 mil-
lion), owing to a high level of current liabilities (Rs 2,142 million) at the
year-end. This is not typical of NTPC's net working capital position, which
is satisfactory, but represents a year-end phenomenon arising from a peak in
supplier billings coupled with a lag in GOI's release of the corresponding



-25-
funds. With the exception of accounts receivable, NTPC's financial perfor-
mance during FY'83 and FY'84 was satisfactory.
Future Investment and Financing 1/
4.06   NTPC's capital expenditure for the period FY'77-'96 is expected to
amount to Rs 405,000 million (US$31,145 million) (Annex 4.1). Its total
external financing requirements will be met by GOI's equity contribution of
Rs 134,000 million, and by long-term loans of Rs 176,000 million. Foreign
financing is expected to contribute approximately 30% of financing require-
ments. Internal cash generation is also projected to contribute about 30%,
increasing from about 3% in FY'84 to almost 40% in FY'92 (Annex 4.2). The
lower ratio of cash generation to capitaL investment during the earlier
period is due to the high level of capital expenditure relative to the value
of assets in operation (para 4.03). Rapid changes in the levels of both
operations and capital investment make cash generation a volatile and unreli-
able measure of financial performance. However, as NTPC becomes a more
mature utility cash generation will tend to stabilize. It is expected to
level-off at about 40% in the mid-1990's. Dividends on equity are not
anticipated and it has been assumed that surplus funds will be applied to the
investment program. NTPC's financing plan (Annex 4.2) is satisfactory.
Future Financial Performance
4.07    Projected income statements for NTPC are presented in Annex 4.3 (with
assumptions in Annex 4.8). Generation is projected to increase from
4,267 GWh in FY'84, to 55,420 GWh in FY'91, and to 98,202 GWh in FY'96. The
average tariff is forecast to increase from 36.5 paise/kWh to 68.5 paise/kWh
and to 93.5 paise/kWh for the same years, respectively. The increase in the
average tariff represents annual growth of about 8.5% between FY'83 and FY'96
(Annex 4.7), which exceeds the expected rate of inflation. This would
increase the average tariff from just below to just above the estimated LRMC
(para 4.11). Revenue is projected to increase from Rs 1,398 million in
FY'84, to Rs 35,036 million in FY'91, and to Rs 84,842 million in FY'96.
4.08    Operating expenses are projected to remain relatively constant as a
percentage of revenue; 52% for FY'84, 59% for FY'91, and 53% fc.r FY'96.
Operating income is projected to increase from Rs 675 million n FY'84, to
Rs 14,424 million in FY'91, and Rs 39,889 million in FY'96. This would yield
a financial rate of return on unrevalued net assets in operation of about
11.3Z in FY'84, 11.5% in FY'91, and 15.0% in FY'96. Between FY'84 and FY'91,
the projected rates of return vary between 7.81 and 13.5% owing to the fact
that common facilities, to serve all units at a station, are completed and
1/ All figures relating to projections are expressed in current prices.
Refer to Annex 4.8 para 2(c), for the escalation factors used.



-26-
transferred to assets in operation prior to the comnissioning of many of the
units to which they relate. Both the rate of return and internal cash gener-
ation (Annex 4.2) would increase together to reach acceptable levels of about
14Z and 42%, respectively, by FY'93. During negotiations? NTPC agreed to
achieve annual rates of return on unrevalued net assets in operation of not
less than 7S through FY'90, 9.5% in PY'91 - FY'95, and thereafter, rates of
return at levels satisfactory to ensure the financial viabilit of NTPC
(para 6.04(d)). It was agreed, on the basis of current projections, that by
FY 96 a rate of return of 14-15Z would be needed to ensure such financial
viability. In each of the years FY'85 to FY'90, a rate of return of 7% on
net unrevalued assets would reflect positive net income after interest
expense, and cash generation after debt service. Even if ?TPC were to
achieve only the minimum 7% rate of return during this period, it would not
adversely affect the investment program, as GOI has undertaken to cover any
resulting deficiency in financing. The equivalent rates of return on net
revalued assets, based on a pro-forma revaluation (Annex 4.6), are about 5X
in FY'84, 7% in FY'91 and 8% in FY'96, which are satisfactory. GOI continues
to oppose the principle of revaluation of assets operated by public sector
undertakings. The Bank, however, will continue to covenant higher rates of
return on unrevaluated assets that would normally be sought on revaluated
assets in order to compensate for the lack of revaluation and to allow NTPC
to provide adequately for the replacement of assets.
4.09    Net earnings, after interest expense, were Rs 449 million in FY'84,
representing about 32% of sales revenue. They are projected to increase to
Rs 6,836 million in FY'91 and to Rs 24,257 million in FY'96 representing
about 20. and 29% of sales revenue respectively. The ratio of net earnings
to sales improves in the later years owing to loan repayments and the result-
ing reduction in interest. NTPC's projected financial performance and cash
generation are satisfactory.
4.10    Forecast Balance Sheets for FY'85 - FY'96, are presented in
Annex 4.4. Statements of sources and application of funds are provided in
Annex 4.5. Table 4.1 summarizes NTPC's financial position at: March 31,
1983, the year in which NTPC comenced commercial operations; March 31, 1991,
the end of the fiscal year in which the proposed Project would be completed;
and March 31, 1995, the first full year in which all generating units, of the
projects presently approved by OI, would be operating at full capacity.
This Table shows that in FY'83 total capitalization was Rs 15,050 million
(US$1,158 million), divided between GOI loans (including the onlending of
Bank Group credits and loans) and equity in a ratio of 21/79. Eight years
later (March 31, 1991), when the proposed Project will be completed, total
capitalization is expected to rise to Rs 197,311 million (US$15,188 million),
reflecting a debt/equity ratio of 44/56. The debt/equity ratio is expected
to drop to 39/61 by March 31, 1995, at which point capitalization would have
increased to Rs 345,196 million (US$26,554 million). The lower debt/equity
ratio in FY'83 compared to FY'90 is attributable to the drawdown of project
equity financing prior to loan financing. For this reason, also, the debt



-27-
service coverage (Annex 4.5) is projected to decrease from 3.5:1 in FY'84 to
2.3:1 in FY'91. However, owing to reductions in principal outstanding it
will increase to 2.5:1 by FY'95. Projected debt/equity ratios and debt serv-
ice coverage are satisfactory. Current liabilities are projected to include
2.5 months capital expenditure to reflect NTPC's typical year-end position
(para 4.05). Net working capital, consequently, is projected as negative at
the end, of years from FY'85 to FY'88. In the subsequents years, however,
the projections reflect positive net working capital owing to growth in
operations.
Table 4.1: Financial Position of NTPC
At March 31st                           FY'83          FY'91          FY'95
(Re Million)
Fixed Assets in Operation at Cost       3,036        149,309        287,560
Less:  Depreciation                       (68)       (12,530)       (38,805)
Net Fixed Assets in Service             2,968         136,779       248,755
Work-in-Progress                       12,758          58,207        83,379
Total Net Fixed Assets                 15,726         194,986       332,134
Short-Term Deposits                      -               -            9,094
Working Capital                          (702)          2,325         3,968
Deferred Preliminary Expenses              26            -             -
Total Net Assets                       15,050        197,311        345,196
Financed By:
Equity Share Capital                   11,810         92,351        133,545
Retained Earnings                          46         18,796         76,657
Total Equity                           11,856        111,147        210,202
Long-Term Debt (including IDA
Credits/IBRD Loans)                  3,194          86,164        134,994
Total Capitalization                   15,050        197,311        345,196
__== =__
Debt/Equity Ratio                       21/79         44/56           39/61
Regional Tariffs
4.11    A detailed comparison of NTPC's projected regional tariffs with LRMCs
for FY'85 - FY'96, is provided in Annex 4.7.  The LRMCs, in FY'85 prices,



-28-
have been escalated to be comparable with the regional tariffs, which include
a fuel price adjustment component, and have been expressed in current prices.
NTPC's average tariff is expected to increase from 97% of LRMC in FY'85 to
105% in FY'88. Thereafter, it averages a little over 100% of LRMC. Although
NTPC's regional tariffs as a proportion of LRMC encompass a slightly wider
range, the average for each of the regions is close to 1002. NTPC's
projected regional tariffs are generally lower than the projected costs of
generation for the SEBs. However, there are likely to be times when some
SEBs' short-run marginal costs would be lower than NTPC's full tariff. This
issue is addressed in paragraph 4.13.
Comercial Arrangements for Sale of Power
4.12    Under previous loans and credits, GOI and NTPC agreed to sell power
from NTPC's power plants under contracts satisfactory to the Bank. These
have now been concluded with the Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking, the
Damodar Valley Corporation, the Electricity Department of the Union Territory
of Goa, and all SEBs designated to receive power from NTPC plants. The
Electricity Department of the Union Territory of Pondicherry is not expected
to receive power from NTPC until early 1988. A contract in respect of this
entity is therefore not yet required but will be concluded at the appropriate
time. GOI and NTPC agreed, under Loan 2555-IN, to revise bulk supply con-
tracts to incorporate additional provisions regarding contract renewal,
tariff revision, return on equity, and introduction of capacity charges at an
appropriate time (Annex 4.9).
4.13   NTPC's role in the generation and transmission of electricity is
forecast to increase substantially. This will impose new requirements on
the bulk supply tariff structure and, in this context, issues which need to
be addressed include: (a) the potential multiplicity of tariffs - the exist-
ing regional bulk supply tariff is set on a station specific basis, reflect-
ing the fact that NTPC is presently operating only one station in each
region. This approach would result in a multiplicity of tariffs with the
commissioning of additional plants in each region; (b) recovery of transmis-
sion costs - there is no provision in the existing tariffs for recovering
costs of transmission facilities that are not associated with specific gener-
ating stations; and (c) merit order operation - SEBs, which at times have
surplus generating capacity (e.g., at night during the monsoon), find it
cheaper to incur their own short-run marginal costs and avoid the "full" NTPC
tariff even though NTPC's short-run marginal costs are lower than those of
the SEBs. This leads to operation of plant out of merit order, consequently
wasting resources. GOI has appointed a committee to address certain aspects
of NTPC's tariffs. During negotiations COI and NTPC agreed to submit a copy
of the comittee's report to the Bank by March 25, 1986, and to carry out, in
close cooperation with the Bank, such additional studies as may be necessary,
concerning the bulk supply tariff structure, addressing inter alia issues
arising from NTPC's expansion and in accordance with terms of reference and
timetables to be agreed by August 31, 1986 (para 6.03(b)).



-29-
Taxation
4.14    NTPC is liable for income tax.  However, in view of its large capital
expenditure program, tax relief is provided well beyond the period of the
financial projections. A tax equalization reserve is, therefore, not neces-
sary.
Bank Loan for the Proposed Project
4.15    The Bank loan for the proposed Project would be onlent to NTPC by GOI
in accordance with a Subsidiary Loan Agreement which will provide for a
maturity of 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, and repayment of
principal in equal semi-annual installments, with interest payable on out-
standing balances at not less than 13% per year. This minimui onlending rate
provides sufficient margin over the current Bank rate of 8.5% to cover the
foreign exchange and interest rate risks which are to be borne by GOI. The
conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan (para 6.01(b)).
Audit
4.16    NTPC's auditors are appointed by the Company Law Board, on the recom-
mendation of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India and are normallv
members of the Indian Institute of Chartered Accountants. The auditors'
report is subject to review and comment by the Auditor General. For FYs 83
and 84 the appointed auditors were P.K. Naheshwari & Co. and Goel, Garg &
Co., both firms of Chartered Accountants. The audited financial statements
and auditors' report for FY'83 and FY'84 were satisfactory to the Bank. The
auditors' reports contained no substantive recommendations or adverse com-
ments. As with previous Bank Group credits and loans, NTPC's agreed during
negotiations to provide the Bank with audited financial statements within
seven months of the end of the fiscal year to which they relate, together
with a certified report by the auditors, and comments of the Comptroller and
Auditor General of India (para 6.04(e)). NTPC has complied with this under-
taking for FY'84 and prior years.



-30-
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Least Cost Analysis
5.01    Each of the Northern and Western Regions is large enough to accom-
modate unit sizes based on the largest combustion turbo-generators available
and economies of scale dictate 'that these should be chosen. The range 95 KW
- 115 MW (site rated) has been specified to ensure competitive bidding among
manufacturers with different standard frame sizes. The size of the heat
recovery boilers and steam turbo-generators is governed by that of the comr-
bustion turbo-generators.
5.02    With the aid of the optimization model WASP-II1, CEA has prepared
least-cost system expansion plans for the Western and Northern Regions, based
on the load forecasts kiven in Annexes 3.1 and 3.2 respectively. The assump-
tions used, including the load forecasts, and the results of the optimization
modelling have been reviewed by the Dank and found satisfactory. With an
opportunity cost of gas based on fuel oil parity, the earliest feasible
implementation of Kawas, in the Western Region, and of Anta and Auraiya, in
the Northern Region, form integral parts of the respective least-cost
development plans. Even if these plants were to burn NGL or naphtha rather
than gas, the cost of electricity at the relevant load centers would be
comparable with any other source of supply and the combined cycle plants have
the added advantages of short gestation, given the chronic power shortages,
and low capital cost per kW, given the budgetary constraints facing COI and
the states.
Internal Economic Rate of Return
5.03    Benefits of the three stations included in the proposed Project
cannot readily be separated from those of other investments in generation,
transmission and distribution in the Northern and Western Regions. There-
fore, having established that the stations in the proposed Project form parts
of the least-cost expansion plans for the Northern and Western Regions, it is
appropriate to carry out a cost-benefit analysis on each of the plans in
order to ensure that the expansions envisaged are desirable. For this pur-
pose, 'time-slices" of the Northern and Western Regions' investment programs
have been analyzed. Capital costs of the investment programs (covering
generation, transmission and distribution) together with incremental operat-
ing and fuel costs are given in Annes 5.1. The benefits of the investment



-31-
programs relate mainly to the incremental consumption which they make pos-
sible. 1/ A minimum measure of benefit, ignoring consumer surplus, can be
derived from incremental sales revenue. In the absence of adequate class
specific consumption conversion factors, the standard conversion factor
(estimated to be 0.8) has been applied to convert financial revenue into a
measure of economic benefit. On this basis the minimum internal economic
rate of return achieved by the Northern Region program is 3Z and by the
West'-n Region program, 7%.
5.04    However, these estimates are more a reflection of the inadequacy of
tariffs than of the economic merit of the investment programs. The estimated
minimum economic rates of return, 3% and 7Z, are less than the established
opportunity cost of capital, and this is indicative of the fact that tariffs
to consumers in both Regions are presently less than LRMC (para 1.08). In
reality the program will confer benefits in excess of those described above.
There will be consumer surplus associated with the incremental consumption;
consumer's reactions to the severe shortages of power experienced at present,
and expected for the foreseeable future, suggest that willingness to pay
substantially exceeds present tariff levels. In addition there will typi-
cally be other external benefits.
5.05    In order to derive more realistic internal economic rates of return,
it is useful to estimate a measure of consumer surplus, at least for
industrial and agricultural consumers. Their willingness to pay will be
related to the costs of autogeneration and diesel pumping respectively. Many
consumers are presently observed to find these options economic when public
supply is not available. Annex 5.1 presents an estimate of diesel
autogeneration costs at Rs. 1.12IkWh. It wouLd, however, be unreasonable to
assume that all industrial consumers would be willing to pay this price for
the whole of their consumption from the public supply system. Therefore, as
a conservative measure, it has been assumed that the consumer surplus
attributable to incremental sales in each Region can be derived from an
average of the cost of autogeneration and the prevailing tariff. Similarly,
for agricultural consumers the equivalent cost of diesel pumping has been
estimated at Rs. 2.21/kWh and average willingness to pay has been estimated
at halfway between the average agricultural tariff in each Region and this
alternative cost. This more realistic measure of the benefit of consumption
results in an internal economic rate of return of 12% for the Northern Region
and 13% for the Western Region. However, it must again be stressed that
1/ The programs may also lead to benefits in terms of a reduction in the
cost of meeting existing demand, particularly through fuel savings.
However, the energy deficit is such that by far the greater part of the
output available from plants in these programs will lead to increased
sales. Fuel savings resulting from these programs are likely to be small
and this element of the benefits has therefore been ignored.



-32-
these represent lower bound estimates as domestic consumer surplus and other
external benefits, have still not been included.
Justification for Bank Involvement
5.06    The proposed Project represents the culmination of a dialogue with
GOI in which the Bank has encouraged a more flexible policy on the use of
natural gas for power generation (para 1.02). Through this Project the Bank
would be supporting GOI's objectives (para 3.02) of:
(a) alleviating acute power shortages in the Northern and Western
Regions;
(b) diversifying fuel supply to the power subsector;
(c) relieving pressures on the railway and coal sectors; and
(d) introducing into India the reliable, flexible and economic tech-
nology of combined cycle plant.
In addition, through its involvement, the Bank would:
(a) ensure that the price paid for gas by NTPC, and therefore NTPC's
tariffs, would adequately reflect the economic value of gas (para
3.05);
(b) support the continued financial viability of NTPC by measures
to contain accounts receivable (para 4.04); and
(c) cause GOI and NTPC to address aspects of NTPC's tariffs that will
require amendment as NTPC expands (para 4.13).



-33-
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements
6.01    The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
loan:
(a)  award of the contract for construction of the HBJ pipeline
(para 3.04); and
(b)  conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and NTPC satis-
factory to the Bank (para 4.15).
6.02    During negotiations, GOI:
(a)  agreed that disbursement under the loan would be conditional on
signature of the contract for construction of the HBJ pipeline by
October 31, 1986 (para 3.04);
(b)  gave an assurance that 4 MMCMD of gas will be made available for the
proposed Project and that, to the extent that a full 6 MMCMD of gas
is not available, liquid fuels will be made available (para 3.04);
and
(c)  confirmed that the minimum price of gas supplied to the proposed
project would be based on fuel oil parity (para 3.05).
6.03    During negotiations, COI and NTPC:
(a)  gave an undertaking that supply contracts between NTPC and the
appropriate authorities for the supply of gas for the operation of
the proposed Project will be concluded at least six months prior to
the commissioning of the first combustion turbine under the proposed
Project. The supply contract will be furnished to the Bank for prior
review and comment (para 3.05); and
(b)  agreed to carry out in close cooperation with the Bank studies as
may be necessary concerning the,bulk supply tariff structure,
addressing inter alia issues arising from NTPC's expansion and in
accordance with terms of reference and timetables to be agreed by
August 31, 1986 (para 4.13).
6.04    During negotiations, NTPC:
(a)  gave an undertaking to operate the plants included in the proposed
Project in accordance with environmental standards prescribed by GOI
(para 3.13);



-34-
(b) agreed to obtain letters of credit from those customers which have
not yet opened them within six months, and for letters of credit
already opened, obtain revised letters of credit reflecting the
equivalent monthly value of pawer allocations where existing letters
of credit are below these amounts (para 4.04);
(c)  agreed to maintain its zccounts receivable, arising from sales of
electricity subsequent to Whe conclusion of bulk supply agreements,
at a level equivalent to nat more than two months' sales of power
(para 4.04);
(d) agreed to achieve annual rates of return on unrevalued net assets in
operation of not less than 7% through FY'90, 9.52 in FY'91 through
FY'95, and thereafter annual rates of return at levels satisfactory
to ensure the financial viability of NTPC (para 4.08); and
(e) agreed to submit to the Bank audited financial statements within
seven months of the end of the financial year to which they relate,
together with a certified report by the auditors and comments of the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India (para 4.16).
Recommendation
6.05    Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project is suitable for
a Bank loan of US$485 million.



INIA
CQ  SD :l1J ._t110f JECT
D t        =.'5t   EX 26    "^61    "'t6    ='62    tY'7Y         FY'79   FYELM      FV81    n'82    n'83    FY'84    a'8
(Prow.) (Tenta- (Tents-
xi               Zs             Zs                         tive)   tihe)
Installed Capacity (NW)    1,835    2,886   4,653   9,027    12,957  16,664  26,680  28,448  30,214  32,344  35,361  39,360  42,440
(Utilities)
Electricity Generated     5,858    9,662   16,937  32,990   47,433   66,689  k02,523  104,627  110,821  122,010  130,211  139,896  156,633
(GClb)
Electricity Consumption    4,793    7,959   13,953   26,735    37,352   50,246   77,293   78,124  82,473   90,237   95,917  102,684  A
(Cwh)(Utilities only)
Per Capita Generation     20.80    30.90    43.90    73.81    97.82   126.26   159.60   160.00   166.20   182.00   183.00  192.70   211.38
(kwh)
Per Capita Consumption    12.30    20.70    31.90    53.70    70.80    87.15   120.48   119.40   123.70   132.00   135.00  141.48    NA
(Wh)(Utilities only)                                                                                                                         w
Consuuption Patternj().
Domestic Light &          12.40    11.70    10.70    8.80      8.50     9.20    9.80     10.76   11.28    11.50    12.48   12.88     NA
Small Pover
Coercial Light b           6.90     6.80     6.10    6.20      5.70    6.00    5.60       5.96    5.95     5.98    6.29    5.89      NA
Small Pover
Industrial Power          63.70    66.90    69.40    70.60    69.30    64.60   61.35    58.86   58.75     58.75    55.80   56.68     NA
Railway/Traction           6.90     5.10     3.30    4.00      3.30    3.00    2.83       2.95    2.82     2.78    2.79    3.86      NA
Agriculture Pu'eps         4.30    4.00      9.30     7.10     9.30    12.60   15.56     17.23   17.48    16.71    18.55   17.72     NA
Public Water Works,
Sewage Pumping, Public
Lighting & Others        5.80     5.50      3.90     3.30     3.90    4.60    4.86      4.24    4.28    4.28    4.10      2.97    IA
QLQ.Q,QQ   1Q.LQQ    LQQLQ   !IQ_QQ   00.00  LQo,Q  lQ,..Q    1000   0LQ.00  1o.Q0   100.00   100.00    NA
_ - -_ - -_- -________________________
NA - Not Available
source: C8A, June 1985



INDIA
!!I6      n187        'E[8         ttS8q         FO           nslk        n:22         UY'3         n'
Inem
Northern                 54, 549    61, 375    67, 538      74,073        81, 086      89, 218      98, 178    108, 055       118, 945     130, 953
Weatern                  53, 097    59, 084     64, 538      70, 416      76, 678      83, 744      91, 467     99, 913       109, 148     119, 245
soutbern                 47,188    53,681      58,817       63,943        69,296       75,920       83,188      91,160         99,907     109,505
Eeatern                  25, 869    29, 525    32, 440      35, 650       38, 889      42, 831     47, 194      52, 021        57, 366     63, 287
Worth-Estern              1,991      2,407       2,712       3,038         3,389        3,744        4,135       4,563          5,035        5,550
Andatan and                  23         26          30           33           37           41           46          52             58           65
licobar Islands
Laksbadveep                    3 _3 _3                            4             4                                              . 6  7            8
All Indla (TOTAL)       182,720   206,101    226,078       247,157       269,379      295,503      324,214     355,770        390,466     428,613
(NW)
Northern                 10,643    11,975       13, 179     14,455        15,825       17,415       19, 167     21,098         23,227      25,576
Veatern                    9,184    10,220      11,245       12,273        13,459      14,701       16,058       17,542        19,165       20,938
Soutbern                  8,558      9,707      10,620       11,534       12,485       13,675       14,982      16,414         17,986       19,711
Eastern                   4,505      5,134       5,640       6,196         6,757        7,442        8,202       9,043          9,974       11,006
Nortb-Eastern               432        536         599          667          740          814          895         983          1,080        1,185
Andan and                     7          8           8            9            10          11           12           14            16           18
NLebar Illands
Lakabadveep                               2          2            2             2         -2          -1              3             34
All IndLa (TOTAL)        33,330    37,582       41,293       45, 136      49,278       54,060       59,319      65.097         71,451       78,438
source: CIA



INDIA
-        C_ 5=UCT.  GKEPWC
Previaus Loana and Credits to Indian Pover Seetor (June 30. 1985)
Approval      Closing     Loan        Amcnt
_____ttUC                                                                   '- t    D       ur-'UL  Dale  Dete  Status
India           First DWC - Sokro - Fonar                  23           4150           2156        18.50     16.72          Complete
India           Second WC - Haithon - Panchot              72            1/53          6/58        19.50     10.50          Complete
Tate            Trombay Power                              106          11/54          9166        16.20     13.85          Complete
Tate            Secoad Trembay                             164           5/57          9166         9.80      9.66          Complete
India           Third DWC - Durgapur                      203            7/58          6/65        25.00     22.00          Complete
India           Koyas Power                               223           4/59          4/65        25.00      18.70          Complete
India           Power Tranamission                        416            6/65         12/70        70.00     50.00          Complete
India           Second Kotbagudm Power                    417           6/65          12/70        14.00     13.97          Complete
India           Third Trombay Thermal Pover              1549           4/78          12/84       105.00     42.04          Complete
Indie           RaXagundm  Thermal Power C')             1648            1/79         12/85       50.00       6.05
India           Farehka Thermal Power C')                1887           6/80           3/87        25.00      0.00
India           Second Raesmandam Thermal Pover (*)   2076             12/81          6/88       300.00      37.59
IndLa           Third Rural Electrifieation              2165            6/82          6/86      304.50      65.99
India          Upper Indrovati Hydro                     2278           5/83           6/91       156.40        .39
India           Central Pover Transu  ioLan C')          2283            5/83          3/89       250.70        .63
India          ldira Sarovar                            2416            5/84          6/92       157.40      0.00
IndLa           Second Farskkh  Therml Power C')         2442            6/84         12/91      300.80  .  0.00
Tate            Fourtb Trombay Thermal Power             2452            6/84          6/90       135.40       0.00
India           Chandrapur Thermal Power                 2544            5/85         12192      300.00       0.00                               1.
Indio           Rihand Power Treaneaiaion (')            2555           5/85          12/89      250.00       0.00                                a
India           Kerala State Power                       2582            6/85          9/91  1. 6..0           -
Total                                                                          2 709.20
(Total Loans for NTPC Projects)                                               (1,226.50)
IDA Credit.
India           Fourth W C - Durlapur                       19          2/62          12/69        18.50     19.88          Complet*
India           Secoud Koyna Power                         24            8/62          9/70        17.50     21.10          Complete
India           Kotbagudea lower                           34           5/63          12/68        20.00     24.13          Complete
India           Sees Equipment                             89           6166           6/74        23.00     26.32          Complete
Indis           SeCond Power Traemrisajon                 242           4/71           3/77       75.00      72.93          Complete
India           Third Power Traniajslion                  377           3/73           9/78        JS.OO     85.00          Complete
India           Rural Electrification                     572            7/75         12180        57.00     57.00          Coeplet-
India           Fourth lower Transmission                 604            1/76          6/83       150.00    149.87          Cemplete
India           Singrauli Thermal Power C')               685            3/77         12/83       150.00    150.00          Coeplete
Zudia           Korba Thermal Power (*)                   793            4/78          3/85       200.00    182.32
India           2aegund*a Thermal Power (*)               874            1/79         12/85      200.00    200.00
India           Second Rural Electrification              911            5/79          3/84       175.00    171.75
India           Second Singrauli Thermal Power t*)    !027              S/8W           3/88      300.00    178.87
India           Farakka Thermal Power Ca)                1053            6/S0          3/57      225.00    150.06
India           Second Korb& Therml Power (a)            1172           7/81          12/89      400.00      88.11
India          Upper IndraWati Hydro                     1356            5/83          6/91       170.00      12.91
India           Idits Saroevar                          SFO10            5/64          6/92       122.00       -
India           lndira Sarovar                           1613            5/85          6/92        13 20
Total                                                                            4622
(Total Credits for hTPC Projects)                                             (1,475.00)
(i, IPCrojectc



ga  -                                                                                          -   - - -   - - - - - - - we - - - wOil   06P0   I3F*3LI NVIMW!WU
fit                                                                                         Olt      06-t   1          IM  1 Hw Im
"  o                                                                   e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~on  lsZ  06toFlt  11 ilwililJ
CZ                                                                                            off                                                                                         ORl      OWt                         IgIiWAIg
01                                                                                         0CC       @1-mr                   II UiWA
"I                                                                                         00!       06-W t                     16A 11W
of;                                                                                        Oi Il    01-65 AJ
#Il                                                                                        Ol_V1V                              WNWINIW2
001                                                                               00!      0I-AH                         NMlI
WI       0                                                                        00401    01-i                         AIVIO
Gil                                                                               OIl      611-334                UV3AN61IA
00I                                                                               001      IlAM                          NM
OK                                                                                OK       is-104                      it WfI
OKi                                                                               OK      fil-lt                   MLt  wIU
001                                                                      001       1-40i                         VAW
001                                                                      00!      616-at                      VAIMU
OAl                                                                               _1 _-1                   U SIA
Oct                                                                      001      N-Ni                           113
0!                                                                       001      U-A-eU                      9AIi
00!                                                                      001      IS-PU                          VLU
opt                                                                      00!      U-pU                           MUN
00*                                                                      00e        a-as                      VAlV
OK ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    S                                   an                                 U"-,t If v
004                                                                      Olt 0a0                                m l
WI~ ~ ~ ~ ~~O                                                001   n-latVAI
00! ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~0                                          00U   U-iS                           1613
ell                                                                      all      U-U't                   UMOAIIA
orC                                                                      00C      U-mI                         "Nill
NO                                                                        0K.   U-  1t                   ii IN i s
00!                                                                      ofV      U-%S                    I  _
001                                                                      001UN-JOV                              HUN
oil                                                             Olt      ii- N
*                                                                                            NC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                            OK       is-bi                      If vfm
oil                                                             fit      L1*UIt                  MOAIIfA
~~~~~~~~iN                                                                                          3ilI1g11 91961
009                                                             OK       II-at
Ni                                       001       Wa-P                  I  U    iUh
NZ                                       OK    Mm?b                       I IWWHA
OK                              00R      Il-"                     I w UNw
OK                              00K      33-0                  II 11111
Ni                         OK       f3-AA                     I WU'mE
WC                         00K       I-MU                  If lillipI
O0K                         NC   to-WI                      Iwvwi
001                   0au       cu-a0                       I Wm
Ni                Nit    fl-Al                         I  mlUW
NC                001      il-A'N                  I IUVUIII
001      OK1       WellP                  1 l I sI
OKl      Met    NMI    1161         966      cutI    outI       LI    1161        1161     0166     68I!     NI        11961             CIIIul Su  MI!   II f   l  gut    U             3W           lING  W31UUNDU
1iinl NM   A UlIUI2I         A 1100
L3ltU IUU 312 13111311
131111l EILV3M ISEI vomlii



U7MuDSW   FMN P L    TOINE LINITOJ
SCNEJ OF CUUIU3IEI U PMt PUITS
MUg SY FICM. uRn
coUIUlIU2W In
CIEOULICAA. WmI               DATE          S      IM1       1913      19164    IMU       1934     1917      1906     1911      199      1991      119       191      1996      199      1991      199      391       2        230
IMIN~       INAt.CAP.RE6.1   Apr-9l        '.30                                                                                                     210
FAIMUK  If                    Jul-91      100                                                                                                       500
mAKIM.                        J.-91        210                                                                                                      210
NUAMIMIM  (NAT.CW.REI.3   Oct-93           210                                                                                                      233
KANMIM                        Dec-92      220                                                                                                       210
fALOE                         Jo-92       100                                                                                                       500
FARM   II 2                   Jul-92     5so                                                                                                                 50
iiauwO                        Jia-93      500                                                                                                                100
INOtIFIED EONWP00T 64    J.n-94           500                                                                                                                          500
IETIPIFI3U KNPOW' 66    Nar-94            100                                                                                                                          so_ _  0
KIIIiF2EiENUPOO'T 19    Apr-94            500                                                                                                                                    0
IKUTIFIED EU PWIOT it   Okt-94            5005
)lIUflEin  Ku PO  66'35    Oct-94         500                                                                                                                                   500
IKNHPFIE3 NEU P03'1 64    Jia-95          500                                                                                                                                   500
IDINTIFIED EU P003'T N       Nar-95       S00                                                                                                                                   500
3D1112P313EU P403'!               5-005
IKITIFIB NEU PWIOT 01         ct:9        S00                                                                                                                                             506
IKNTIFIES KM P003'! 34    Oct-95          500                                                                                                                                             5
IKNUTIFIED EU HRW'T 32    Jia-96          100                                                                                                                                             5
I3III2FIE   EU   6W'?320    pr-96  500- ------1---------------00-----------
2KUT!VIES EU P1'? 63    Jul-Yb            500                                                                                                                                                      500
23ENTIF2EI NEV POJ'T 16    kct-96         500                                                                                                                                                      100
EINT3FIBD KU P103'T  2    he,-97          500                                                                                                                                                      so0
iKUlIFiED EU POW"'! 620   Apr-17          500                                                                                                                                                                 0
2IKT2F2ED EW POOP? 63    Jul-97           500                                                                                                                                                                503
IEUIIPIID Km p2wOJ'137    Apr-91          500                                                                                                                                                                          0
IKUTIFIB WV PIOJ'T III   Oct-91           500                                                                                                                                                          __ _            00
IKENTIFIED NEW P103'T @7    A-19          500                                                                                                                                                                                   500
IKNT2FIED NEW P003'?0 63       ct-99      500                                                                                                                                                                                   s
TOTAL IDENTIFIED I AIPIOED             34,670       200      600    3,000        400      400       200    1,920    3,520    1,720    2,070    1,140    3,000            0        0         0        0         0        0         6
3311.NEUPIW'S-Ml YET SDIAPP'D    32,000               0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0   . 0            0         0        0    3,500    2,500    2,000    2,000    1,000    2,000    1,000
TOTAL CAPACITY A0010  IN)              25,370       200      600    2,000        400      400       200    1,920    3,520    1,720    2,070    1,340    3,000    3,500    2,500    2,000    2,000    2,000    3,000    3,000
TTLCMNATIVE CAPACITY (NVI)                       200      3(        30      20         60       90       42         20      160    12030    13070    14070    11370        180      200       227       230      250       230
AT FtLLY STAUILIZED LEVEL           142,295    3,300    4, 400    9,900   12,200   24,300   15,400   25,910   45,320   54,730   i1, 115   71,215   32,131   90.035  103,7K3  114,78K
AS PER POOJECI3ONS                                  0    1,101    4,267    9,232   31,972   14,033   23,219   30,334   43,013   55,420   15,912   74,000   79,701   *,139   93,202
UNDER FILLL CAPACITY (BUl)                     (2,3003(3,291)  15,6333  12,3432  12,3232  12,369)  (7,792) 115,3181 '11,7172 110,7453 (10,333)  17,735) (10,334) 115,1113 121,563)
-200.01   -74.31   -56.91   -23.71   -16.31    -3.92   -30.02   -33.52   -22.41   -16.22   -13.51    -9.51   -32.52   -35.22   -14.421,



INDIA
COMIUNED CYCtE POWER PROJECT
Nfon Iwn?m Pooq CoMw~
OM-gwiond Unctw.
-4 ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~
EII
ii                           _~~O_
.1~~~~1
m  m  m                |  |                   t                   m               t



v~t mm  lUllo   vll
1153303     P1*30  Is istiSVc           CIPICIVI                  Oil gYfLl3IAY30                                          DiIM3Uf                                  FM                       iicitm
"tat Hs as mmCm  21,3,6,           1  FT  615       M015  is or KicK  23.0114           Is Fl  1162      011110    II
or        II15361111  111ioAlAl    I  tIUl                                                  M0A1   111116   FICYOI                 FA"ICIUEuIM                                 Ms    rcu,m         eIt
313? c0351.  sivieC    30136*  1f1H1393l 30v31 (II   lb    ()               I     ll       653      3031) 0111)    *5    it) 3      6*LII       3Dkl M i  colt   FM3
331461513    I   011912          2.0    205.5      200.01      01203    01161       15.0      l0t5       110    2145.0    I3H0I        off   11311.         6521       -..   ..    ...  ---1--.0                         24
2   3115611        12      2001.6    1001.0     I323I?      1ill      194        illy      54.1   11131.    025.1        951.1    113)11     00.3         -         ---        --       ---   325.          3.3
2   113962         3.9    260.0      24e06        142      32914      41.4I     2l6s       5?$   1311.6    121.2         I22      3114.5       1.4       -.--*.---1130                                      4.2
4   113000         3.4    fill    H120.01         ills      0710      I1l        7146    3 iI   fo003 0        114.0     04 4    1310.6       12.5       *...      ...       ---               3272.6      24.2
I   611314         3.6    2Me I01.0.0             5112      5111      05.9      $1?3       is 9    039l.0    635s 0      7.9    1111.11       lot        -...      ...       .--        --     22.0        24.3
55111*1                              009  l   3000l1 141                                                    5140.0                          M1280
IitiUoI                                                                  I 1614  00       0343      10.3       l 369   507.0      31.3   36576I        i  I0    g06 3114              3170      S1.5s   249404.1 3
1051*      3   1139133         I      20.        250        314        s05l       60.0      fil0      44.1    3606.01   10111.11     oill20       3o52 0..6-                                              2590.1      233
2   313004         3.4    2051    1420.01         W21       103116  0.0         7236       62.6    3465  1   19321       00.3   3300 0        61i I       --       ...                         listil211   312.5
2   013004         I.   200 9    200 0            1367       3261     316I      2207       37.0    204.0    26.1         10 5      64 0       109 I       -  ...  --           --       --   2166.6        13.0
SiiSoliU                              0 Its1    lso.s                                                        2045.6                         11
iYiEiSi                                                              4690      13.6       sill      55.1   3233.1    800 A        01.6    I0.6          f0 I       If       401      2420        s  2   s2l2036     23.6
31 I931    3    104       32      200       3001.51     1q32      4163       347       s3112    10       66901      II   I     o 096I2   062.0     533 I            ...             --    -  ..      4206.1      314-
19610111                             460 6    409 0                                                          324  1 0                      347.16
l311141                                                              44316      16        3001      4113    612.1    71913        151  60121           541I      H5         203      2243       26.6   252164       3 20
M01I IIIC                               26140.61   l660.01                                                     3476.1                          9316.6
kiting6                                                                 132.1.      10.1   $342.3       62.3-   341.6    1605.6        55.17     123.0     023         7..1               24545 il  24.1   22.17.        12.4 
1311111 Sloin  (Its. 1           13.
If ol beat 1as1,140n1     mllietIiii) aIeulmIlzlg 2onls3113.*33w, CspeeIt,25



INDIA
COMBINED-CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Electricity Generation and Consumption of Western Renion
(GWh)
Average Annual
Growth Rate
Electricity Generated             FY'79       FY'8        EY'1        FY'82       FY'83      FY'84      zY'79- FY'4  (XZ
Gujarat                           7,991       8,852        9,363      10,207      10,775      11,995         8.5
Madhya Pradesh                    5,243       5,722        5,952       6,620       7,681      8,133         9.2
Maharashtra                      15,491      15,504       17,664      18,682      20,138      21,912        7.2
Goa, Daman & Diu                   -            -           -           -           -           -             -
Dadra & Nagar Haveli            -__                                                             - __
Subtotal                         28,725      30,078       32,979      35,509      38,594      42,043         7.9
Central Sector                    LIM5       19           L.7        L2.140      LMii       3J.32         LA.
Total Region                     31.243      32 077       34.953      37.649      40.185     45.385        L7
Blectricity Consumption
Gujarat                           6,852       7,306        7,566       8,106       8,428       9,288         6.3
Kadbya Pradesh                    4,282       4,347        4,567       5,014       5,865       6,897       10.0
abharaubtra                      12,894      12,920       14,037      14,933      15,442      16,934        5.6
Goa, Daman & Diu                     1/7        257          253         199         222         262         8.2
Dadra & Nagar Haveli                  5           5            6           8           9          10       14.9
Total Region                     24.210      24.835       26.429      28.260      29.966     33.391         6.6
Source:  CEA, June 1985



INDIA
COMBINED-CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Power SuRply Position of Western Retion (On-Goinu/ianctioned Schemes Only)
Average Annual
Growth Rate
FY'85    [Y'86    FY'87    [Y'88    FY'89    FY'90    FY'91    FY'2   [Y'9              F'4        FY[95   FY'85-FYl95 (Z)
Installed Capacity (NW)
Hydro                       1,822    1,372    2,144    2,299    2,552    2,732    3,038    3,443    3,568            3,568      3,568         6.9
Thermal                    10,695   11,967   12,177   13,517   15,187   16,317   17,097   17,667   18,167    18,167    18,167                 5.4
Nuclear                                                     420       420       420      655       655   _f890    _890            890         9X.
Total                      12.937   14,319  .14.741   16.236   17.739   19.469   20.790   22.000   22.625    22.625    22.625                 5.7
Peak Availability (MW)        7,317    8,035    8,463    9,136   18,049   10,946   11,817   12,584   13,178    13,376    13,376                 6.2
Peak Doeand (WM)              5652    9.640   10.220   11S245   12[273   13459   14.701   16.058   17.544    19.165    20.935                 ll.0
Supply/(Deficit) (3M)         1.335)  (1.605)  (1.757)  (2.109)  (1.2A4)  (2,5l3)  (2.884)   3474)  (4.366)   (5.789)   (7.562)                  -
Energy Availability (CWh)  47,820   52,887   57,795   62,538  (68,247)  73,757   80,529   86,498   91,684    94,988    96,431                   7.3
Energy Requirement (GMO)   50.225   55.50Q   59.084   64.538  L7.16   7661   83.744   91.467   99.913   109.14    119.245                      9.
Surplum/(Deficit) (GiIh)    (2.405)  (2.613L  (1.289)  (2.000)  L2.169)  (2.861)  (31.U5)  LAA9691  (8.229)  (14.160)  (22.814)
Source:  CIA, June 1985 (12th Electric Power Survey of Ind'a)
I"1
SW



INDU
COHBINED CYCLE P(OER PROJECT
Electricitv Generation and Consumotion of Northern Reaion
(Gvh)
Average Annual
Growth Rate
FY'79    FY'80    FY'81    YX82    FY'83         FY'84      FY'79 - FY-84
(Tentative)        (Z)
ELECTRICtTY GENERATED
Haryana                       3,855    3,968    4,289    4,818    4,911         4,914          5.5
Himachal .radesh                398       355       245      432       540        587          8.1
Jamu and Kashmir                533       690      768       785       936        892         10.8
Punjab                        6,013    6,235    6,483    7,010    7,777        8,383           6.6
Rajasthan                     3,597    3,725    3,393    3,561    3,604         4,343          3.8
Uttar Pradesh                10,139   10,124   10,190   11,348   12,585    12,154              3.7
Chandigarh                                         -         -         -          -             -
Deau                          1.413    1.467    1.313    1,113    1.077         1.040         (6.3)
Sub-total                    26,008   26,562   26,681   29,072   31,430    32, 313             4.4
Central Sector                1.541    2.665    3.317    3.552    5.648         7.876        38.6
TOTAL REGION              27.549    MM.22    29.998   32.624   37.078    40.189            7i
ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION
Haryana                       2,415    2,366    2,556    2,999    3,326         2,235          6.0
Himachal Pradesh                207       233       280      387       330        401         14.1
Jammu and Kashmir               400       421      440       493       651        659         10.5
Punjab                        4,656    4,915    4,997    5,046    5,843        6,296          6.2
Rajasthan                     2,604    2,974    2,935    3,130    3, 265       4, 214         10.1
Uttar Pradesh                 7,688    7,611    7,846    8,494    9,843    10,216              5.9
Chandigarh                      154       152      170       181       181        208          6.2
Desu                          1.823    2.083    2.308    2.          2          2.941          9.2                                 all
TOTAL REGION              20.018   20.744   21.531   23.132   26. 223    28.170            L.                                   '
Source; CHA, June 1985



*INDIA
COBINED-CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Power SupplV Position of Northern Reuion (On-Goine Sanctioned Scheme. Only)
Average Annual
Grovth Rate
FY'85     FY'86    FY'87    FIY'       FY'89    FY'90    FY'91    FrY92    FY'93    FY94    FY.95    FY85 - FY95 (Z)
Installed Capacity
Hydro                       4,867    5,067    5,451    5,560    5,812    6,493    6,993         7,123    7,855    8,845    9,955           7.4
Thermal                     6,487    6,808    8,271    9,911   10,621   11,040   11,961    12,671   12,671   12,671   12,671               6.9
Nuclear                        440      440       440      440       675      910       910       910       910      91        910         7.5
Total                      11.794   12.31S   14.162   16.146   17.343   18.443   19.864    20.704   21.436   22.426   23.536               7.1
Peak Availability (DW)        6,959    7,600    8,678    9,508   10,481   11,333   12,179    12,913   13,538   14,184   14,918               7.9
Peak Demand ( W)              8.790    9.210   11.975   13.179   14.455   15I825    7,415    19.167   21.098   23.227   25.576              11.3
Supply/(Deficit) (W)         tl.831)  (1,610)  (3.397)   671)  13.974)  (4492   (5.236)   (6.254)  (7.560)  (903  (10,658)                   -
Energy Availability (GWh)   38,816   46,429   53,623   59,218   66,137   63,842   80,159    85,310   90,433   94,823   98,363                9.7
Energy Requirement (CWh)    46.905   51.740   61.375   67.538   74.273   81.086   89. 218    98.175  108.055  118.945  130.953              10.8
Surplus/(Deficit) (CWh)      (8.09)  (5.311)  (7.752)  (8.320)  (7.,936)  (7.244)  t9.059)  (12.868) (17.622) (24.122) (32.590)
Source:  CEA, June 1985 (12th Electric Power Survey of India)
0.
,., w .



-46-
ANNEX 3.3
INDIA
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION
COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
1.0     The project consists of three combined cycle power stations to be
installed at Kawas (Gujarat), Anta (Rajasthan) and Auraiya (Uttar Pradesh)
and the associated transmission system. The Auraiya and Kawas plants will
have installed capacity of approximately 640 MW each (ISO rated) and Anta
approximately 380 MW (ISO rated). The equivalent site ratings would be
approximately 565 MW at Kawas and 380 MW at Anta. However, as the Combustion
turbo-generators (CTGs) are manufactured in standard sizes, the eventual
capacities will be dependent upon the CTGs selected.
2.0     Each CTG will be a 50 Hz, heavy duty industrial single shaft machine
with inline compressor, directly coupled with matching generator. The
capacity of each CTG will be in the range 95 MW-115 MW (site rated)   The
CTCs which will normally operate on lean natural gas (8,700 kcal/Nm3) would
be capable of continuous operation on heavy fuel oil, LSHS, naphtha or
natural gas liquids. CTGs will be provided with a gas bypass stack to enable
open cycle operation. The heat recovery boilers (HRBs) will be unfired, dual
pressure steam boilers designed to accept the maximum exhaust temperature
and gas flow of the connected CTG. Each steam turbine (STC) will be designed
to match the maximum heat input from the connected HRBs. STGs and HRBs will
be designed for sliding pressure operation over a wide range to respond to
CTG load variation. The generators will be either air or hydrogen cooled
with an output voltage of about 11 kV.
3.0     Standard ele:crical, control and auxiliary equipment together with
the associated instailations will be provided for each plant. In addition,
each plant will be provided with a lean gas-fired quick start CTG of about
4 MW for black starts.
4.0     The associated transmission system comprises lines between the plants
and concomitant grid substations. These will be constructed in accordance
with NTPC standards and practices.l/
5.0     Salient features of the power stations and transmission lines that
comprise the proposed Project are described in Attachment 1 and a plant
configuration is shown in Attachment 2.
I/  The salient features of the NTPC 400-kV transmission lines and associated
400/220-kV substation have been described in the Central Power Transmis-
sion Project SAR (Report No. 4293-IN) in Annex 13, Attachment 1.



S&IAIIPARALQFA4fAUMNQII
PXerZit.stL4tLIA                          l:IVitA .uJuLmL                       An_tj.i1ujUShktu                       Auraiva (Uttar PradgJI
site                               Adjacent to IRIBHCO fertilizer          N-V of Kachri village                 Went of Debiapur village
plant
Access road                        Existing from Surat (12 km)             1.3 km from lota-Baran                along road Phapand-Auraiya(l km)
state highway
Railway                            Spur line under construction            Adjacent to Kota-Dins                 6 km from Phaphund station
from Surat to IRIBHCO plant              railway at 2 km from                   on Kanpur-Agra railroad
Ants station
Area (hectargs)                    360                                     250                                   250
Land Acquisition                   Under acquisition                       Under acquisition                     Under acquisition
2.                                        (90Z gvt., IDZ private)               (1002 private)                         (open land)
Main source                        Hazira Branch Canal                     Right Main Canal of Kota              Lover-Cauga Canal (Etarvok Branch)
(close during 15 days)                 Barrage (limited closure              and distribution canal
per year)                            (limited closure per year)
Flow (W3/sec)                      40                                      200                                    100
Alternative                        Poudage (1.4 million W3)               Section of canal used as               Pondage (1.5 million *3)
no                                     pondage;
Compensation                          not required                           not required                        Provision for compensation to
3. LILAM.uaL!.                                                                                                     irrigation witb deep well from
Delivery Station                   ONCC/CAIL station                       Spur connecting pipe (16 kh)          GAIL station on DIJ pipeline at
to main DIJ pipe line                 the brancbing of the pipeline
division into two separate linee.
Auerage Supply (IWCND)              2.25                                   1.5                                    2.25
(total - 6 IDm)
Pressure (kg/cm2)                  80                                     45                                     45
Alternate fuel                     NCL/Naphta (2000 T/day average)
Capacity;  ISO rating (1W)         640                                     460                                   640
site ratinj
(Level(i);C)-(W)    (6 m, 35 oC) 565                          (250 m, 40 oC) 380                     (140 a, 40 oC) 556
Plant configuration                2 x [2(CTG + WID) + STGI                3(CTG + WHlD) + I STC                  2 X 12(CTG + WEB) * STCI
Cooling system                      2 Cooling towers                       -  Direct circulation for              2 cooling towers
(natural draft)                           250 days (3 pumps:                    (induced draft)
(make-up:  3 pumps 0.3 *3/cec)             (3 pumps: m3/sec)                    (make-up:  2 pumps 0.45 mc3)
- One cooling tower
for 15 days, induced draft
5.           ~                                                                     (make-up: 3 pumps: 0.17 .3/sec)
Voltage (kV)                            220 D/C                                     220 D/C                            220 D/C
9/C:  single circuit             Kavas-Havcari (45 km)                      Anta-Bhilvara (RSa) (200 ko)   Auraiya-Agra (UPSE) (180 ha)    n
D/C:  double circuit             Iawas-Valthan (45 kh)                           220 D/C                             400 DIC
Distances (km)                   laas-Sbharucb (90 ha)                      Anta-Dauss (SUE) (390 kh)          Auraiya-Agra (IITPC) (2D h0 ) "km
400 S/C                        -
Agra-Ballabbgarb (178 kh)



INDIA
COMIINED CYCE POWER PROJCI
NalkmdhW PowCxon
PinW C otg~
HEAT RHCOUY ILERS (H)
CMOUSGIOE AOR  (SIG)
DES IICAIR( IUC                  S
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                          KP
~~~~~~~HP5 PeSsC  
x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



-49-
ANNEX 3.4
INDIA
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION
COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
The proposed Project consists o7f a number of components (e.g., CTG, STG,
transmission lines, and substations) located at different sites (e.g. Kawas,
Anta, and Auraiya), and to be implemented in parallel. The construction of the
HBJ gas pipeline would also be undertaken quasi simultaneously in order to
supply on time the gas required for the power stations and other planned
facilities (e.g. fertilizer plants). Attachment 1 indicates the forecast dates
of commissioning of the different facilities included in the proposed Project,
together with completion dates for the HBJ pipeline. Attachment 2 shows the
detailed implementation schedule of the Kawas power stations. Schedules for the
two other power stations, Anta and Auraiya, will be similar.



INDIA
NATIONAL THERHML POWER CORPORATION
COMBINED CICLE POWER PROJECT
Co_issioninp Dates of Pro;ect ConoDentes
Combined Cycle Unite                   Trensuission
Yeer   Ouarter   Gas Facilities            lava           Anta          Auraiva               Lines
1986      1
2      Work starts on RBJ
3      Gas available at lavas
4                                       Contracts avarded                    Contracts awarded
(12/86)
1987      1
2
3
4
1988      1
2     Gas available at Auraiya
(4/88)
3     Gas available at Ants
(10/88)
4                                CGTI 12/88                                      lawes-Nav*ari (220-kV)    10/88
Kevas-Valtban (220-kV)    1V/88
Auraiya-Agra  (220-kV)    12/88
1989      1                                 CGT2  2/89
CGTI 3/89
2                                CGT3  5/89    CTGI  4/89    CGT2  5/89
CTG2 6/89
3      HDJ completed             CGT4  7/89                    CTG3  7/89       Ante-Bbilvara (220-kV)      7189
CTG3  8/89    CTG4  9/89        Auraiya-Agra  (440-kV)      7/89
Ante-Deaue    t220-kV)      8/89
4                                                                               Kawas-Dharuch (220-kV)    10/89
1990      1                                                                                4Agra-allabbgarb (440-kV) 12/89
2                                STCI  4/90
3                                BTG2  8/90                   STGI  9/90
STCI 10/90
4                                                             STC2 12/90



INDIA
COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Notkonl Theimnal Power Coipomation
Impementation Schedule fx the Kawos Powe Station
i9s*                19O                                                        Igo 99              1999
1   2   3   a           2    3 a            2   3        1      2   3   4    I    2   2   4    I   2   3             
PPOAC1 PRPARATIWNI 
CCNSaLX.AN SEMCES 
ST LEMdIWG                                     I
SP.c
COMBS"D CYCLE LWIS
CT                              -  -  -  -                                       U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T YCYc
H9/STG                                                            -               - -   8ri
-            -~~~~~~~ 
MANGSNISON SYSTM
GENERAL SERVICES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ mjt  Ecta
vilmak-3171



-52-
ANNEX 3.5
INDIA
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION
COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
------Rupees MiLlion-----   ------US$ Million-------
Description                       Local   Foreign      Total   Local   Foreign    Total
Preliminary Works                  45.5        -        45.5     3.5                  3.5
Civil Works
Foundations                     76.7         -        76.7     5.9        -         5.9
Structural Steel                39.0       57.2       96.2     3.0       4.4        7.5
Plant Civil Works               55.9                  55.9     4.3        -         4.3
Other Civil Works              561.9         -       561.9    43.1        -        43.1
Sub-Total                    733.5       57.2     790.7    56.4        4.4      60.8
Mechanical Works
Main Plant Equipment
(CTC, HRB, STC)             2,068.1   5,342.0   7,410.1   159.1    410.9        570.0
Black Start CTC                 18.3       48.0       66.3     1.4       3.7        5.1
Fuel Gas Handling               32.3       31.4       63.7     2.5       2.4        4.9
Air Compressor                    5.8       4.6       10.4     0.4       0.4        0.8
Fire Protection                 30.6       29.2       59.8     2.3       2.3        4.6
Air Conditioning and              8.0       7.6       15.6     0.6       0.6        1.2
Ventilation
Station Piping                  53.7       51.6      105.3     4.1       4.0       8.1
STC Oil Purification             4.4        4.7        9.1     0.3       0.3        0.6
Control & Instrumentation       55.5       53.7      109.2     4.3       4.1        8.4
Crane                             7.5       6.8       14.3     0.6       0.5        1.1
Other Mechanical Works         284.1       42.2      326.3    21.8       3.3       25.1
Sub-Total                  2,568.3   5,621.8   8,190.1   197.4    432.5        629.9
Electrical Works                  377.8     773.5   1,151.3    29.1       59.5       88.6
Fuel Connection Facilities         57.0     117.0      174.0     4.4       9.0       13.4
Transmission System             1,430.8     196.9   1,627.7   110.1       15.1      125.2
Consultancy                        72.6      67.6      140.2     5.6       5.2       10.8
Engineering & Administration    808.5          -       808.5    62.2        -        62.2
TOTAL BASE COST            6,094.0   6,834.0  12,928.0   468.7    525.7        994.4
Physical Contingencies           316.0      358.0      674.0    24.2      27.5       51.7
Price Contingencies            1,070.0   1,471.0   2,541.0    S2.8    112.4         195.2
TOTAL POJECT COST          7,480.0   8,663.0  16,143.0   575.7    665.6   1,241.3



-53-
ANNEX 3.6
INDIA
COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year         -------------------Disbursements---------------------
and Half-Year            Cumulative US$ Million Equivalent          Z Undisbursed
1987
December 1986                         1.0                              98.0
June     1987                        36.0                              92.6
1988
December 1987                       110.0                              77.3
June     1988                       170.0                              65.0
1989
December 1988                       250.0                              48.5
June     1989                       320.0                              34.0
1990
December 1989                       370.0                              23.7
June     1990                       410.0                              15.5
1991
December 1990                       440.0                               9.3
June     1991                       460.0                               5.2
1992
December 1991                       485.0



1612000. 1063100. 90611o CPU101 LIIII,E)
cml:uo        P,auraool  oaci
2010. CWORATIIE
....t,..w."...
iNIIWIIDII P0ill
C0I2   0611A416  912963 INNOM   F9I"9
I1UKE1S IILLIEI
CAPItAL EP17 iUE                          U  i1-;;96        191;      i;;1      i;i9      i;10      III       1912      1913 i    914      1915      1916      1911      1918      219" lm        2"     2      :92       2993      19        199      1996
TO.1011i1ERN 111INI:SIIIIIUIO -30IM120 0   25,614              7       III       296       146       834       1M       521       516       345       303    I,9m       3,110    5,249    5,370    4,029         670         0         4         0         0
1161111             500   16,099           0        0         0         0         0       454    1,2106    2,895    2,317    5,467    4327    3,125    2,1741            159    2,534    1,034    6. 42     7 2,36   22,61?    7,1
T9dIUIE                        31,221          0        12       a         II5      Il7        42       23        510       562    I422n      3903    4,416    2,946       1,124    2594       1.621    2.42    2,11        210       2.31I
II                     6,911         0         0         0         0       2 1       50        33        is        55       294       124      900       494       264       424    *      25      0      31322,22         I
1510.lr I 25ll9,15                     1       2"0       3           I6      9      1,341    1,194    2,139    3,339    1,506   10,92    12,211   11,436    1,3 1 ,12    9, Ilk    1,154 24,602                        2      ,
TOtA t                 13 ;g40                                                .0    11 |5                '                  20       0NU       745        00      5l         X        0          n
TOT.Eh11M  IM 011:1AT10116    160,M00&220   19,236             0        II 8              303       635      III4     1ON        640      104       146  2 M3           3173      3221      0S        155         0         0         0         1         0
1T 011EI            50060394             0         0         0         0         0    2            xi        III      II       303       3036      1900      1634      222      3697      7 1076      1      132       21230    7165
t461100                         2499"          * 0       0        0        32       17        III       121        10       386      1219     224       1124      1112      11355 114          21114    33         302       261       21
I C                    3.634         0         0         0         0        0        34        is        46         0         I      212       64s       545       I9"         0         0         0      145       120    2002
tOTAL                  116,264         0        1        211       335       792     1325      251        1 1411   269       62        1303      1942     1020      5646      6326    1060    244          2121     233s      1             319
IOT.SDUtFA 3fl11121011:1ATOS             200  5,360            0         0        50       363       345      200       1129      635       419       274       261              0              0         I        0         B         0         0         $
5 11613              500  29,1 71          0        0         0         0         0         0         0       137      156      1261    3013        2631      2543    21N]2          2445            3623      3111      2954       s1
T1121n1nn                       13,094         0         0         0         3       39       255       16e 1   I           56       1392     2269      1511      1103       513      1261      1145      1504       I21      215         I
itc                   2,129         0         0         0         0         0         0        23       62        30         5        24       2M        $40       225        9        35       319       742       59          I
toTAL.                  50,351         0         0        so       366      384      1263      1919      1615      1643      2932      5473     4424      4456      2929      3154      62375511            4146      2525       15
201.1611Um KSIU2T1A2IOII             2001220   20 410          0         0         4        94       363       496      619       121      1144      259       240       3195      2924      23       2326      1562         0000
11611101             500   ":'m            0        0         0         0         0         0         0         2        30      426      3069      SW4        241      0621     MOO       593        PM6      639       995       132
li~iuiI2                       11,1"1         0         0         0         0         I        6        15       III        96       253      1129     1671       sit      1012       695      IU        1112      2431     223       26??
1K                     4,016         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         4        41        27        0         1       652      I?        I299       oil         0         0      96
TOTAL                  101,16A         0         0         4        94      364       502       104       936      IM1       2212      A92      140       9932    13214    l211l    INVl          923       VW       1120     2123
TOTAL 3IPK  CIDAIIM:IIATII           100-210   10,621           1      213       632     2,506    2,111    3,413    ,1IN        2,320    3,312    3,636    1,152   10,130   11,392   20,346    71,20    2,31I                0         0         0         S
IlilIMl         500  232,113          0         0         0         0         0      454    2,149      2,552     4,39    10,17      IS.M6    11,196   23,012    13,916   25,544   25,114   31,391   34,440   53,111   23,64
IOAIIISSIUI                04,105         0        12        be       250       334       410      607       115    1,604    4,116   it0,02        9,221    6,412      4,114    5,424    7,022      L 3,39     om        ,921    1,22
iCe              11,345          0        0         0         0        21        14       141       125        91      341      ,971      12       2s1t    I,         2,390      IS"        ln 1.39 30 254    2,341    3,216
ANUI11N1 TO 1971-04 ACl00                                             9        22        29        II        32       25      1I9   11,0371    11641    12641    12642    I2la)    1164)            93          0         0')        I        I0
VW   TEAL               404,144         7       234       721    16WI    2 543    4 463    62141    7210I    1 425   If176   324535   321III   32221   29942   50696                   ;  S . 5 75 3692"       45,     ,916m   339 in
CLIJUAIIW  TOTL. VO PAIii              404,114          1       241       962     h41       II90   ~653    1d194    M&I6   31.,    Edii                11620   114433   147119   11i122   205ll   24103    X312    326972   31194              Ui W



-55-
Ah= 4.1
Page 2 of 5
@000 _ -          00 - - e       - oaa0L-IL _e  Ze  e  -_  e
a. em*00 o     000      000,,   0n00  000g   0000 _le  0  :l~E.
a ~ ~ ~ ~ _                                            It   ILCCl o7nt;    gte togs=__
---     ---   - -     --
a  oo     Oca  0        000  000   00  00    -.          Cae_ 
~~~ina-~~~~~~I
| - @^@ P -                                           O oa e- 
_  i|   ||  E|  ~~   S2- -, a -   _  ooooeS__
I                                                           a~~~~~~ 
E  00 , e o:   : a   ao  -o - o    ao - oo a        OO ao '
|_   ~~           0to  ooo  oo   o   oooooo  ooooxs2
f E     - 'a a         a   -                 _oo_
-I                                                                  - 
* a ' --I5 ---                    S    S                             .S aa_ 
C00                                         00      000   oO  o..a -s 
CI  f                     U..na-    0fO
Est             !     B     |     g       Se     - 0',



HISL IEMiL Pi3 CWmiim LINITI
EUUiiiIKI CIELI mU0 LUITUI
KITES Kelm
COWINS 401A1IO2  FIIWS 1JUl5  FtLE9C
~~~~~~8*8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"Sx~~~~~~......                                                                                                                   .............__.._.
IlUEtS 222LL2E)
W        Wo .IlL    IfilTf                  U   11716          1977      1971      1979       19        1         1952      195        195       195       195       1D         1t5       11        INO       19I       1992       199       199       199       199
KM142 I3CTAIII                 200    3,014          0         II       211       303       635       1114        l3       357         44        11
TENSINiE                            522          0         0         0         32       157       177      121          35         0         0
IC                       165          0         0         0          0         0        34        35         40         0         0
TOTAL                     4,302          0        16       212       335        72       1325      2059        433        44        It
SfI1 452 A1S11335               500   12;5153          0         0         0          0 8                 0       334       7177      22        3         3*05      1 2900     126        309
Twain  ac1 ,9k                        0         0          0         0         0         0          0        17       31o        351       405       426       IU 0
11         1:1            0         1 ~ ~~~~~ 0          0         0         0          0         0         0         0        196       413       346       143
AIC                    211            0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0       150       1072      5O
IKC                        42          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0        29        12          0
TOTAL                      2,522          0         0         0         0          0         0         0            O      2IJ     294       4U7 4322             25         209
L3211T'0  OECTII3TASIUI                    500   50,141           0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0      200C      2300      SU97      730       20702     12362     I01J0      76
C TAN131111RA                     1,439          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         k3       142       212   1274         2114      S33        3441      23        2
IOIIL                    75,347          0         O         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0        63       2t25      2317      5511     20690    24097    27272        2353      107119
30041 346400021T41O C                   200 K4702              0         0                   0          0         0         0         0          0        23       719    1273        2239         50       22
A111U                               572          0         0         0         0          0    0              0          0         0         0       22t       232        224         0         0
1K                       1214         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          1        16        k         74        20          0
TOTAL                    15,454          0         0         0          0         0          60       .0        0          0        24      2052       2    17   2544      2177       2291   10"        1M         77                   01
3AA31S 0W1TA0IO                500   68,394          0          0         0         0         0          0       33        75       222        343       3034      2900      12134     222         2197      30      512       2 k         00
3747231                 3     54702           0          0         0         0          0         0 ~    0            0          0        23       279       2702     2249        1          2 0        0                    000
112121                      2 74,9         0          0         0        32        25         7        22         70        30       222         1       2624      262        223       234       25         30       30          63       26
IOI.IIECEIII IE TOl:lTALS         OU0 1 5,5n               O         lt       2S        50J       tJ        11                    14      1001 U   n  u             20      77Il    w   14     U 7b      SJ21                             OO 
ITATIM               5      is , $,34       0          0                   0         0          0       31 ?Z 71           1211      J*0X       3OS       ItOO      li34      2229      36t7       71       10761    11626    10130         7JwS
$TAT,=               IAs    4, INs                    o         o         o         o         O          0 o          O         o       3       719 m    lZ        12U9        U         211         t         O         O          OO 
tv1alX                           24" m              O         O         O       2       Is? 1517            121        70        SU       1219      U 24      1624       1612      11S5      1174      2M4       33,        3401      unm        2w4     
IO                     3,634          0          0         0         0         0        34          s        46         0          I       222       645       545       I2           0         0                  45        720      l22
TOTAL                   2l26,26          0        26       212       335        792      2325      159 1241            26         620       30        1942      7020       5U4       6326    20690 2IO47          I7n    12533    2072 



a1.1   s   ^: 5- rgwZ 
Sm s   sOO     
* *-3s>  --    -0O         --.1  s-
i                       ~~~~~.:
, 10 O0O   OO0O   tOg& 3 *3
--------. ..  -| !aa    !a1
:--      .-a -oo   .v  ooo    _5-   - -   a - ma -..83
S-     -,'--a--
au~ 0 0 - 00 0000 000  0000 00_00
|-e0o- 00Y  0000 0000 0011
31 !MjlE _S;; co 0000 Coca o.ee'  3
S                                 a;eo;l"o; oooe ooo  
s jo b t8.,~~3
3-                                 -   a
3~0~a    cne 000 000  00



IUIA
hAtI t.niw.K PUN MWU*120 LINITII
CI7Ei  CYCLE PON P0IC7
CWvU1I  OPRATINS FI"$ IIS1               FPI"
IIfIJES 1W1W1ON
RT1WItA. EIKIE            URE               a 1111Im^-9        1,7       1911      2979      19o        293       l2        19113      1914      13        194       I"3        19M       1919     1i9o       1992       1992      1993      1994       1995     I19
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n..... .. ,       ,, ... .. .. _.. .. s  . as_..._.
FAIA3 AT*IONS                    200    1,344           0         0         4 e       4        33        494        1        6I 02     1310      1200      1195      191           0                   0         0         0         0         00
TIIMIIIIIIE                         131          0         0         0          0         2         I        35        113        92       122       712          0         0         0          0         0         0         3          0 
IK                         62         0          0         0         0         o          0         0         0         4         41        17         0          0         0         0         0                    0 e       o
1041L                     ,031           0         0         4        94        364       142       704       911       1471      133       1424     1tll           0         0          0         0         0         0         0 
Fi1A  ll:TATI                     500   10hI             0         0         0          0         0         0         0          2        33       362      1114      1127       2351      2514      1935       9b]        311         3          0         9
T0UNI1IUIO                        I1741          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         4        10       404       124        476       213        so          0         *         3         0          0
1K                        455         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         12       132       315       144          0         3         S         0
TOTAL                    13,240          0         0         0          0         o         0         0          2        42       372      1S        1153       2n4t      29t9      2300      1I0         3II         0                    * 3
F     A 111:11412U3                100    5,013           0         0          0         0         t         0          0         0         0         44       206       9S         34       142       1014       922       372         o          I         I
fit                       III         0          0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0          3        40       249        K        2I"          0         0         3
TOTAL                      ,460          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0        144      2"       943        343      14        1163      1210        542         0 8                  I
IANLW:rTATIOne                   210  13,04             0         0         0          0         0         0         0.,  19              4       392 n      33      2004       291n     2M         2324      1541          0         e         *          0
ItK2UIK                           2,359          0         0         0          0         4         0         0          0         0        22      1113      1144        29?       34          0          0         0         0         0          3
2I6                       i,1         0          0         0         0          0         0                                                                    2 0  0  0                                             o 0  49  244  35  130  0  0  I  0
T104L                    11,719          0         0         0          0         0         0         0         19         4       413    2no         314        3240      3423      243       IH9           3         0                    O
I11,003TATIN11                500  1353              0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0      1497     I450      244       305        232       1140       242          A         3 
I2K                     14627               0         0         0         0               0    0         0         0          0         0         0               0       1 4       547       I35       241          0         0         0
TOTAL                    :5,560          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0      1497      2450       294       3339      339        IlS        453         3          3         3
lKll US IETU11TAI0U1                       50035,43               0         0         0          0         0         0          O         0         0         0          0         0         0       mo        631       2912      093       H         957        M
TRlA111 101                      2215"4          0         0         0          0         0         0         0               0    0         0         0          0        39       451       145      I        112       2431      225       21n
266                       34          0          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         *         0          0         0         0         0          3         3         3       234
lIi                      47,793          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0        3V      1475      1432      4267       105        32      1221   I1111U
TOl.14i7AII    31t 1Tllin             200/210   20 4l0            0         0         4         94       34        494       429       321       1444      2592      2C        3195       2914      39        2324      1561          *         0          0         0
110120K              5044'6,573             0          0         0         0         0          0         0         2         33       424      439       3540      6141       Ml?       6409      5931      7667       49        9957      3OM
TIKit                           24,19           0         0         0          0         2 o  o5                     223        9*        153      172  21410 3U0                 102       A95      2355       1712      2431      223        2477      '
1K                4,~~~01074     0         0         0          0         0         3         0          0         4        4II     1                               42       13        19           3                              3        I
01AL                    I01,3            0         0         4        94        34       502       704        93       1512      2212      4923      645        9932     13114    11017    1302          923       9329    122l11   II7           SI
.A



NATIONAL THERlAL P0iR  CORWORATION LIRITED
COHINED CICLE POWER PROJECT
............._......
FIRANCING PLM
CEWRINS FISCAZL TEARS FYi;i7 THRO          Fl ISSb
IRLPEES NILLION)
7OTAL 1977-96       ACTUAL   ACTUAL --------------------------------------PRWECTED-                     ---------------------                               -
FISCAL YEAR ENDING MARCH 31ST                  US I Ml'.  RS.R1L   1977-83         I994      ISO5      196        1937      1919      1919 If              1912      1992       9        2994      195 2I99
SOURCE OF FUNDS:
INTERML CASH 6SNERATION                           17,913  231,J 39 bJ               777     1,744    3,079    3,7t9    5,397    0,147   11,119  12,442   24,217   21,259   34,227   41,042   49,752
NORKINS CAPITAL-DECREASE/l2NCREASE)               11,105) 114,3141        702      1343)      5s      1,t92    2.tl2       120)  11,937)  12,440)  12,099)           323      1432)      423   (2,907) 110,39b)
LESS:  DEBT SERVIC.                               (7,50t) (97,594)        1t5    12212      1575)      1775)  11,1553    2,907)  (4,022)  (I,319)  1(,020) 110,174) (2,112 9) 114,3371) (2,6t1) 120,611)
PRELININART DEFERRED EIPENGES                  (3)      135)      (35)       (0)        (0)       101       (01       10)       (0)        (0)       t01       (01       (0)        c0)       10)       t0)
---------   --------    --------   ...... ........ ........ ........ ......... ._ ........... ... .... __ ._
CONTRIBUTION TO INESIMENT                          9,204  1129,65         790       213     1,247    3,9 9      5,291     2,31O    2,189    2,911    0,323   11,36           15,939   20,323   22,474   11,16
. .  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
EXIERIPAL FIINIACI1G
SHARE CPITl.                                      10,273  233,545   11,910    4,204    5,551          7,519   14 739   15,214   17,946         7 559    7,479   25,432   15,171   20,390               0         0
L01B-TEAN LOS II                                                        3,294    2,753    2,627       o,292    22,429   24,704   12,1225   29,32   24,394    4,512             ,532   24,544   30,519   30,932
MY-RTEIRN LOWN                                         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0
LESS:SHORT-TENR  DEPOSITS                         (I2S,9) (24,769)          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0   19,094) (15,4742
.. ........  __..... ....  _ .......__. ........... ........ . . .. . . ........ ... .... .... _. .   _ ....... ...... - - - -__-    
TOTAL SOURCE OF FUNDS                             312145  404,14   15,794    7,170    3,425   19,776   31,455   32,319   32,261   29,902   30,394   36.515   37,491   45,249   43,970   33,945
IWESINENT REIUIRMTS:
TOTAL INVEsTIENT REUIREMNITS
CAPITAL INWESfl(T P10WAM
lincludinq intfest during construction)    31,145  404,594   15,794    7,170    9,425   12,774   31,455   32,323   32,211   29,902   30,984   34,515   37,t91   45,249    43,970   33,J45
*.oggin    swl ...sess$    ulo ...ggs .ssuggen assugasss $*Bootle.......... osesso. sastos  ssagas  swssome  ...............,sama  ... -s ssauxu     asas-sUZ  22................|....0218
I CONTlRIHIPTIO  10 INVESINENTI
ltontribution to invustaont di tho t
of avirwq  3 vear capital  lipmnditura)                    29.62      5.0l      3.01    14.92    21.32        11.91      9.71       b.O1      9.72    24.9n      39.31    42.42    44.92    521.1         55.12
1/ Includge onlmnding of IDA Credits/lIl0   Loans, Fediral Raoublic of kruny,
OFEC. U.K., U.S.5.R. loans  anothkr sources of co-financing,



MATIONA  INIUM    POWR  COWUATION LINIHEI
CORI WD CYCLE "KWR PIOJECT
COYIARE OPRIATIN  F792933 THROWI  FiYqb
IRSJEES NILLION)
ACIUAL   RTACLW---- ----- ------ -------TE ----- -------------- --                                                                      TOTAL
...........s.n..mmm...mm...mmm..m.       .... .m m... ...........m.......m..mm ....mmn..,S                        m m3SflS3s U3335                           SiS*n.fin fW
POWER EWERATION                                           1,209    4,247    9,232   1I,912   14,032   23,I49   30,134   43,063   55,420   45,9$2   74,00    79,705   53.539   91,20   593,392
LENS:M22ILLIARV CONUITION                                    i5       432       929    1,197   11,403    5,791    2,573    3,350    4,251    5,099    5,747    6,143    4, 759    7.445   47,250
TOTAL POWER SAKES IMW)                                    1,034    3,835    8,303   20,775   12,428   14,371   27,554   39,713   51,149   40,f54   48,253   73,533   11,330   90,737  544,5141
315LK 65192. TARIFF IPAISE PER EEl)                          32        34       42        43        52        57        45       44        b3        74        IS       33        33       94
OPERATIE SALS RE4IIME                                       334    1, 39      3,433    5,210    .4440    9.294   14,474   25,349   35,036   44,114   52,997   40, 751   71,544   34,342  411,593
---- - ------------                    8.9miUs,  Seamus.. 95*g*U*8 **ssUUI  Semus- ***   ..S.. ........ ... *mm*sa Sealmus" SmosIses   a*ssamm  .*S3a3m .muuum  *aSmm,m ammIsS,
PERtATINI EOPENUE3S. GENERATION
7211.:                NOR~~~~~THERN REGION          145       345       744       751      305    1,044    2,925    5,735    4,424    7,943    9,014    9,749   10,451   51,424   43,020
WESTERN REGION                  0       523      297       344       390       419    2,336    3,762    4,384    4,983    5,274    5,613    4,390    7,560   42,1222
SOUTHERN RE61ON                 0        12      214       456       573      454       350    1,304    1,932    21,493    2,310    3,0611    3,559    4,221   22,594
EASTERN REBION                  0         0         0       42       242       420      473       514       323    2561    2,404    3,453    4,350    5,191   19,443
TOTAL FUEL              245      505    1,257    1,453    2,050    2,719    4,589   11,347   13,549   17,005   19,744   21,923   24,910   23,425  152,001
OPERATIONS I NAINTINNE1EE     NORTHERN RESIDN                44       II7       205       109      112       307       440      h39       954    1,090    1,091    1,244    2,443    1,430    9,499
WESTERN REGION                  0        27       1224      93        93       279      527       732       750       750      750       904    1,266    1,443    7,944
SOUTHER  REIlON                 0         2        70      539       134       134      237       310         1 311  332       33        547       757       759    4234
EAStERN REGION                  0         0         0      503       155       235      235       235       437       907    2,263    1,590    5,351    1,553    7,:439
TOTAL 041 A             44       244       409       434      494       907    1,539    1,915    2,572    3,1223    3,410    3,N119    4,817    5,590   29,348
DEPIECSASION:                 NOTHER  RESION                  2        42       2IS       550      253       236       501    2,047    2,24    2,434    5,474    5,474    5,948    2,293   22,344
WESTERN REGION                  0        23        97      130       230       232       420      795    5,152    2,239    51,53    21,533    1,422    2,042    9,693
SOUTHERN RfEGIN                 0        22       70       272       235       292      195       347       494      420       429       429       90     2,77    5724
EASTERN lESION         ~    ~0    0        0         0      145        2217     259       251       259       717    2,402    5,39       2,394     ,7        ,2
TOTAL KPREC'N            2        47       235      452       409       497    1,372    2,443    2,983    3,962    4,834    5,324    4,145    7,790   37,006
TOAL. GENERATION OPERATING EIPENSS                          223       723    5,952    2,499    3,225    4,323    9,549   15,745   19,124   24,095   21,003   31,13!1  35,392   42,005  223,375
TRAMINISSION. OPERATING ESPKNSES
OPERAIOSi7NSTi MNCE                                            I        3         3       34       135       232       349       393      453       524       454      712       797       375    5,234
OEPRECIAIION                                  ~    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~0  2  54  209      219       432       731       903    5,035    2,273    5,345      5,597    1.352    2,073   52,543
TOTAL IRASN2ISSION OPERATING EIPENSES                          I        5        24       293      404       743    1,010    2, 304    1,463    1,702    1,975    2,309    2,449    2,943   24,347
TOTlk  OPERAIINO EIPENSES                                   214       723    1,975    2,492    3,519    5,034    10,429   57,052   20,412   25,797   29,933   33,447   33,541   44,953  235,M2
OPERATINS IHEONE  31F0RE INTEREST)                          1230      475    2,443    2,531    2,941    4,203    4,045    3,323   24,424   19,077   22,944   27,304   33,025   39,119  112,971
LES' INERS  O  LAS                                           1      459       730    5,214    2,202    3,419    5,292    7,309    9,473   50,354   15,557   122,430   53,244   13,30           99,481
OEOUCT SITEREST CAPITALISED             ~~J89      233       255      32        977    2,527    2,52 0     1 2,50    2,9         IN3      350    I2,24      2,342    3,174   17,459
MET INTEREST CARRIE  TO OPERATIONS                      45       221      575       775    2,125    2,732    3,735    5,959    7,518    9,427   20,747   52,412   12,923   15,432   32,122
OEFRED ESPENSEWISTTEN OFF                                9         5        0         5         5         5         5        5         0         0        0         0         0         0       35
NET EARN2N                                                   4        449       NI     273        ,322    2,452      2,259    2,351      ,1334    9,450   22,257   15,39    20,502   24,257  500,924
..........                             as"zmmm.m    m....  ..m..mm... .mim  mm.mmmmm ins,..... mmResume              .mm.... asmm... mu,..W,  mm..... wase'lee smmalse.
AVENU4E WET FIXED ASSETS 23 JME- AT 2IS3TONSCAL COST   2,305    5,993   22,775   53,432   24,435   38,545   74,877  207,253  125,39M  549,532  547,630  134,424  223,444  Z44,304
-AT REVALUED COST      2,733    7,064   24,355   22,495   30,233   48,702   94,117  542,725  274,238  225,345  250,033  237,614  352,405  432,373
1A*75K9W OERATIN PERFO!NANEE
OPERATIEO RATIO IOP!.E2PS.  3 I0  OPWEN. REV.)             44.2      5i.7n     57.42    52.7      54.52    54.12    43.72    67.21    51.31    57.51    54.42    55.52    53.91 . 53.01                           s
RATE OF RETLIN: ON HI3IONSCAL COST OF MT ASSEIS             4.42    22.31    51.52    13.51    22.01    10,92          3.51      7.32    52.52    12.3n153.71    14.42    20.32    55.02
OUIVALII COST OF NET ASSEIS                0.23      5.41     3.02      9.41      3.3 4I .71          4.2t     4.41      4.32      7.42     3.52      3.31      3.02      7.92



INDIA
NATIONAL THERMAL PWER CORPORATION LINITED
CONIllD CYCLE POWER PROJECT
UhANdC SNEE1S
COVERMIK  FISCAL YEAR  FYl93 1HH  FY 196
IRIPEES NILLION)
ACTUAL ACUAL------------- PROJECTED-- ---------------------------------------------
FISCAL YEAR ENIIKS MARCH 3291                             1993     1914     2995      2996     1917      919S     2999     1990      1991     IW92      1993     ISS4    1995       1996
ASSETS
SROSS FIIED ASSETS IN OPERATION                         3,036    9,197   15,419   23,349   2,U406   53,576  104,357  123,523  149,309  179,154  193,110  229,360  297,560  333,520
lESS:DEPRECIATON                                           66       170      471    1,032    1,U0    3,039    5,141    9,512   12,530   127,670   23,965   30,70   39,105   43,661
NET FIIED ASSETS IN OPERATION                           2,961    9,027   14,949   22,316   26,546   50,537   ",211  115,011  136,779  111,414  174,275  129,572  246,755  214,552
NOK-IN-PROIRESS                                        12,759   13,167   15,970   26,617   53,214   60,361   42,362   53,097   53,207   64,376   93,592   97,109   83,319   71,364
TOTAL FIED ASSETS                                      15,726   22,794   30,919   49,133   79,760  111,399  141,577  111,2t0  194,99b  226,360  257,S57  296,181  332,134  356,216
W~RRENT ASETS:
CASH                                                       90       231       46        5S       74       107      234      375       455      5b6       652      727      936       961
RECEIVAItES                                                218      642    1,146    1,303    1,077    1,549    2,779    4,229    5,639    7,47         9,625   10,125  I1,929   24,240
IIVENIORIES                                               155       424      315       393      512       U6    1,493    1,952    2,492    3,038    3,396    3,551    4,612    5,306
LOANS I ADVYCES                                           263       229       52        71       l6       226      192      231       379      460       562      643       753      37
SMOR-TERM DPU9SITS/ILOANS)                                  0        202       20)      20)      20)       20)      20)       20)      202       20)      202      20)   9,094   24,766
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                                        S         3         4        4        4         4        4         4        4         4        4        4         4        4
T~....  .......... . . ..... ........ ...... .....  .......  _..
TOTAL CIRENT ASSETS                                       739    1,183    1,562    1,929    1,753    2,632    4,707    6,140    9,169   11,567   13,439   15,350   27,227   46,061
KEFEMEO EIPENSES                                           '6        21       21        16       11         6        I        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
TOTAL ASSETS                                           16,491   24,593   32,501   50,979   62,524  114,036  146,255  174,949  204,155  237,927  271,296  311,531  359,361  402,294
33333es3a3es 323S3339 333S3S23   323W3Z3Z 33===3 322:3::  :33333ga                                            :33-      3    3ss : 3 3333333ssessed33  3w3s333   3 3:3: 2 333 3333333ss 3 33 3w333
EQUIIT I LIABILITIES
3 :h: ::3:3:::3:333
EQUITY:
SHMRE CAPITAL ISSUED                                   11,365   15,669   21,565   29,154   43,992   59,145   77,114   54,672   92,351  107,994  123,155  133,545  133,545  133,545
SHARE KDEPSITS                                            445       341
RETAINED EARNINGS                                           46      495    1,313    3,121    4,932    7,343    9,602   12,960   16,796   28,446   40,663   56,555   76,657  100,914
~~....... .............. .....  .... ......  ....    ....._ ...___ 
IOlAL EQUITY                                           11,956   16,509   22,943   32,275   41,924   66,499   36,716  9S,632  112,147  136,430  263,911  190,100  210,202  234,459
LOANS                                                   3,194    5,947    7,574   14,765   26,156   40,745   52,629   71,702   96,164   91,933   96,523  101,142  134,994  260,39
CUIRRENtT LIADILITIE9                                    2,442    2,242    1,979    3,938    6,544    6,603    6,942    6,614    1,844    9,565   10,955   13,299   14,165    6,936
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                       4,635    9,039    9,553  12,703   32,700   47,546   59,570   73,316   93,009  202,493  107,473  121,431  249,159  167,325
_.._ ....... ... .. .. .                             . .........   -__ .  _.......    ................................ ____._____
TOTAL EQUITY I LIASILITIES                             16,491   24,593   32,501   50,971   91,524  224,036  146,28  174,941  204,155  237,927  271,296  311,531  359,361 402,284
RATIO OF DEDI TO KIT PLUS.s u EQUITY. 217                         264sss.. 2...... 32/ a35a/65    3162ts a33s6              3/57    44/5sa6s   40160  7wsIS3   3sas s39s/6         42159
ATIlO OF DEPT lO SEST PLUS EQUITY                       21179    26/74    25175    31/69    35/45    38162    38/62    43/57    44156    tOlt,O    37/t,3    3t,10,    39161    41159  



ISIA
NIONAL TOL     PWER  C OPATI  LINITED
COINED CYCLE PFO   PONECT
UTATENEUT OF SURME AND APPLICATION OF FIND
~~~~.... ...._. _. _._._......... _..__
COVERING WERATIONS FYI913 THREO     FY2I9
........... . ...... .. ........ _. _. _......
IRUPEES NILLIONI
fSTA4    ACTUAL   ACTUAL - - - -- - -- - - - -             -----------      E    E          ----------
FISCmALk,12A EaR EsNoIN  MAC 111977-96   1977-B3                     1914      1985      1914     1997      19M       1939     199       1991      I992      1993     I994      I9M       1994
SOURCE OF FUNDS:
OPERATING INCOME IEDEFE INT)                 12,971        120        75    1,463    2,519    2,942    4,20        6,045    9,313   14,424   19,077   22.,94   27,304   33,025   39,389
DEPRECIATON                                    43,644        be       102       301      561       929    1,179    2,102    3,371    4,019    5,140    *,195    6,923    3,017    9,133
TOTAL INTERNAL CASH 6ENERATION                231,639       IU3       777    1,764    3,079    3,749    5,387    3,147    1,689   19 ,442   24,217   29,159   34,227   41,042   49,752
LOANS                                         176,451    3.194    2.753    1,627    7.191   11,419   14,704   12,125   :9,132   14,894    1,51             6,532   14,544   30,589   30,931
EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL                          133,545   11,910    4,204    5.551    7,589   14,730   15,254   17,968    7,559    7,479   15,432   15,171   10, 30                  0         0
-- --- . - - - --                                                                                           .. -      . - 
IOTAL SOURCE OF FUNDS                         541,435   15,192    7,734    3,942   17,559   29,926   35,345   33,240   38,480   41,015   46,365   50,362   59,141   71,431   30,43
*..assummows: sseazzm azzals      *ssasass s"2.f  ssssss as :8sx X-j--Z  2222022  222222 _:sZ22  *=lZX*W _"w8lSM  2"2=   zz::::r- ss3M8  =vss  _
APPLICATIN Of FUNDS
CAPITAL EIPENOITURE IINCLUDINS IDC)           404,984   15,794    ,.170    9,425   29,774   31.455   32,929   32,231   29,902   30,996   36,515   3),691   45,243   43,970   33,945
LOAN INTEREST
-CHARSEA3LE TO REVENUE                         92,022        65       221      575       775    2,225    1,792    3,791    5.959    7,593    9,427   10,747   11,412   12,923   15,t32
LDN ARNNRIIATION                                15,542         0        0         0         0       29       125       241      359       432       747    1,942    2,925    3,733    5,034
TOTAL DEPT SERVICE                             97,5-4        t5       221       575      775    1,153    1,907    4.022        ,3129    9,020   10,174   12,U61    14,337   21,442   20,1me
PPELININAR DEFERRED EIPENSE                         35       i5         0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0
SHORT-TERM PEPOSITSI(LOANS)                    24,749         0         0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0    9,094   15,674
OTHER WORkINS CPITAL
-INCHRASEIIDECREASE)                           141344      t702       343       1SS   (I,692)  12,4921       420    1,937    2,4a0    2,099        1323)     43Z      (423)   1,907   10,394
IOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                    541,b3!   15,192    7.734    9.942   17,059   29,924   35,345   33,240   38,430   41,015   46,365   50,342   59,141   71,631   30,43
Wssssssss::::::  :ssasssss        *-st-nsuc  .9999S  * "%%RSS * .sults *:::sssssss: S2222 *ss-s-sw              **Ttsswuxxx x::Lsma ::   S8893  3222cm =::::szm  #zSz xsasa
CElt SERVICE COYERAeE                              2.4      2.9       3.5       3.1       4.0      3.3       2.3       2.0       2.9      2.3       2.4      2.3       2.4       7.I       2.4



Mimi TNE cn OO cmn. wa
1   NE^ lUIl CYCL 683300636!Ul
ON1131    SlNM U  ul NTl913A12S
IVuE111 WwTIn  "111913              1119n  m
_Sn  . m nn bl.f                                            b       i.... _s                                                            s
hUlL  K13                                                 I977     1Oll       99 17     10 IM    91N     19012    196       50614     am11     I         lop4 9 11  96      199      59 19999" I"       599       199      19914    am9       5199
33110191  F0691   611 Film  VIM)2                          9.5       i 51     m.0      14i.5     50.9    10.        4.41     4.91      7.01     7.01      7.51     7.51      7.5217.51         5.01      5.01     5.01      5.51     L.01    5.61
WI957L 0969f1a2                                              7       113      a31    9,511    2,1II    3,944    5,619    1,271    4,103   16,514   29,351   23,234I  25,443   25,022   25,440   29,451   3.611  35,446   354114  24,104
C.*iviW                                  7      no0       of    2.57    4,15        V,41    14,164.1    A59    V7,199   41,746   43,097   11,3    11,719   131.155  112,221  195,171  122,115  21,736  291.214  112,3111
0511.L 119911   Sa       1S11lv  - MASS1                     7      Z2       057    2,077    5,522    9,92    51,4    23,592   32,15   49,291   74,995  5044,729  536,"9   I1751  237.592  53,3156  29M5  34.452  409.14   441,972
7   20       ma1    2357       US        Ml    a1su       anu11    13291     2509    4166        1339    39077    46774    490311  135         ON        MM9 79M9 1     3 65111
I I  CM.CW.I1919.                     2ot.01   244.0    24.0    240.0    94.n         1.2       62.91     0.71    52.4      36.311   64.51    12.51    .L1    35.41    JI.2          V.91    10.61    31.11    23.11    17.711
llIlSUl-51-131I191.El                        ~    ~ ~      ~ ~~0  0  0    0        0    1,141    2,969    9,272   15,353   22,543   75,21   49.744   901,347  212,94   140,354  112,170  201,wr 23.M7I46   36, 11 47,1151
f-ilu'
wall.L 1a2131T46l                                            0       22        n5      ISO      334       417       25       69     2,122    4,229   so,ao4    9,5164    1,11      4,310    5,4901   7,044    9171    9.6111    1,14        7.7TM
:.*ISYE                     0       ~~~~~             ~~~12  0  3  564    5,051    1,174    1,5     4,190    6,459   11,1 23 ,167   34,9          39,64    41.29    52,350   42437   11,239   79.13   67,164
19251. 6I9621 UV:U61.TI51-Kfk                                0       12        44      262       b24    1,217    2,947    2,916    4,794    9,5169   20.669   32,143   41,619 4,61           6,2 4"o  ' 1 ,733   65.127    9545   269.132  122.561
OUU*41maUl6Li.m                                             I        12       g0      230       564      993    1192    1 361    1917    3 346 I 5345   55122    3,26  4   321    9949   11514   21 4" 90 664   54747   1  .99
1 OF CM.CW.912        .                        560." 01   4.01   2440 11   200.01    94.51   1Ja.it    Eft3    42.45         9.1      11.6It-I  E.2      9.41    10.9      En.2      fII      li.n I       ni    16.51    17.I
7IUE iUII-I6u1M11191.EI                                     0        0         0        0         0       44       163    1,343    2,523    1,772    7,916   14,4019   37.134   44,404   41.772   13,124   66,9112  72,451  10,942  511.253
PUCIAIII
S1TAI                          3L.n           I     n                 0         0        0         0       43       104      35        544      74        U        741    3,5e2    3.5       5,192      ,3913    ' 143    1,35   56.?4    12.125
l102utU                        2.41                          0        0         0        0         0        2        95       35        54      ISO       207      37        6 "I    25    9224    2.602    2,164    I,'M          2,352    2,432
lfor.0                                                                0         0        0         6        7       99       30       45         0      ,9       2.1       ,14      5101    1.446    7,M91 ,6729   16,213   11.611   15,517
493t I11t1l3  0           I-10-MII011                       0        0         0        0         0      95a     2,721    7,064   14,35   22,4911 14,M    40,702   %4,I17  542,115    130  21 21.1 5 250,13S 37,14   M2,405  3,1-3
FIXlM  914                                                19113    1964      29 11     9116    9I"7      991       11       199       19'l1    19        19`93    19`94     59       5994
MM    KE  WAVED6  OUI-I*VMTIU                            2.723    7,44   14,3       22,415   30.33   46,702   91,157  142,715  976,23   255,665  26,33  20.616   2.44   432,ff673
1  IH*10E s8         E.i m   MIS                     IN       475    24        219        5 2,949    4,206    4,045    3,32    54.424   19,017   27,944   27,3614   33,025   39,119
M65I   AE TI*NlU9l421EC       I S                            2       i9       302      501       0      1,179    2,102    3,371 4, 116    5,144 I       1195    4,923    6,617    9,173
L11 1  PCIAtII-V1.0111  Mul                               51e       39 12    14 l0e    5941  11,925   12,111   14,143)  25,105   14,61   57,M5   51,7295 610,2135  113,1125 115,175I
101AI1110 11141141111 NI$051                                 3      30       .55     2,175    2,577    3,279    4,604    4,5162   12,034   1b4,22   20,430   20.014   23.630   34,241
lt! P REI          59        Muwl l                        01          1       . 9.41 s m        6.61    4.71       4.23     4.41      L.%      7.41      6.11    11.31     6.01      7.91
f6ll 60l1i. Mul                                            5.41    92.31    19.51    113.1    52.01    10.95        6.91     7.13    99.51    12.161    93.71      4.5      11    95.LK 



'lAl
MTIIL TEM  PfWE   CORPRATI    LIENITED
CWICI CYCLE PRO PROJECT
PROJECTED RE311K IMIFFS VERUS LERU W IAL COSTS LRAN)
........_.. _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
COVER1116 FISM  VEAS FPlSM  Tflh FT 1S4
IPISE PER M
FISCAL YEAR                                             1983    1594      1935     111      59197    19K       1919     1990     1995     im       I93      I94      295      I5n
MORTHERN REGION:
OULt S4PPLY TAIRIP                                     32.30    36.09    33.95    44.4!    41.06    58.90    42.20    85.30    70.50    73.00    32.10    37.20    92.30    97.70
LRNC-ESCALATED FRO  Fy1935                                               4- 40    43.17    52.28    56.70    61.52    88.75    72.42    78.77    51.38   36.26    91.44    94.3
TARIFF AS   OF LRKC                                                       37.81    92.61    33.22   100.42   101.11    97.1    97.31   101.t1   100.91   101.11  500.91   100.12
WESTERN REuisi:
3LILK SUPPLY TARRIF                                             38.27    40.00    44.70    44.30    52.50    57.10    61.30    84.30    71.00    75.00    79.40    84.30    39.40
LRNC-ESCAIAIED FRDN FYI1S9                                               39.20    42.53    4b.15    50.07    54.33    53.95    83.9.   47.30    71.37    76.53    60.75    15.S
TARIFF AS I OF LIMC                                                      102.02   105.11   101.41   104.91   105.lt   MM.32   103.7n   104.72   104.41   104.21   104.41   204.42
SOUTHERN RESIGN:
31k SUPPLI TAR1IF                                               50.00    54.25    53.36    80.23    61.37    84.54    67.03    t9.17    70.41    73.50    79.30    36.50    93.9
LRNC-ESCALATED FROM FYlSfJ                                               42.40    48.22    50.15    54.41    59.03    64.05    49.49    73.14    71.06    32.7b   37.73    92."
TARIFF AS I OF LRKN                                                      127.31   127.31   120.11   112.11   109.31   104.72    99.51    95.91    94.15    96.42    9.41   105.01
EASIEIRESION:
k- SULRPPLY 149RJF                                                                54.75    57.54    53.45    59.42    59.97    ".74    71.90    76.30    31.40    37.00    92.60
LRNC-ESCALAIED FROM F11955                                               42.00    45.57    49.44    53.64    58.20    6.15    63.52    72.43    74.99    11.65   34.52    91.70
IARIFF AS 2 OF LRM                                                                124.51   524.41   109.02   102.11    95.01    97.41    9.01    99.5       n9.72   200.62   101.01
TOTAL NTPC
WL4I SWL  IARRIF                                       32.30    36.45    41.41    45.35    52.1l    56.77    60.51    63.93    61.47    73.74    77.57    32.62    37.94    93.50
LAME-ESCALATED FROM FYilS!                                               42.44    46.07    49.94    53.97    53.39    43.30    63.62    72.30    77.23    32.111  34.74    95.33
IARIFF AS 2 OF LRNC                                                       97.12   104.91   102.42   105.21   103.41   100.91    99.32   101.32   200.4  1200.91   101.42   10*.1j
PROIECTEI TARIFFS: I COMU   AVERNE ANA  IKREASE
. ........ ............ _...................... ... ......
NORTHERN RE61S:             FP1193-94                    6.92
...........
WESTERN RESIN:              FY1914-96                    1.32
SOITHERN REsowq:            FY1954-96                    5.41
EASIERN RESIN0:             Fv1I9b-9a                    5.02
.......
WIPC AVERAE                 FY193-96                     3.5
.    .--------



-65-
ANNEX 4.8
Page 1 of 7
INDIA
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION
COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Assumptions for NTPC Financial Projections
1.      The financial statements in this report reflect NTPC's financial
pos;tion and operations for the period FY77 through FY96, and consist of:
(a) income statement (Annex 4.3) with supporting statements and
schedules of tariffs compared to Long-Run Marginal Costs (Annex
4.7), rates of return on net revalued assets, (Annex 4.6), and
scheduled commissioning of power plants (Annex 2.2);
(b) statement of source and application of funds (Annex 4.5) with
supporting financing plan (Annex 4.2), and investment program
(Annex 4.1); and
(c)  summarized balance sheets as at March 31st of each year (Annex
4.4).
2.      FY'83 and FY'84 data reflect actual operating results while the
financial projections for FY'85 through FY'96 are based on the following
assumptions:



-66-
ANNEX 4.8
Page 2 of 7
(a) Stabilization of Power Ceneration:
Operating      CVhs/Mw       CHhs/Unit
Hours/year     per year      per year
200 NW Units:  - First 6 months :          2500           2.5           500
- Next 6 months  :         4000           4.0           800
- Second year    :         5500            5.5         1100
210 NW Units:  - First 6 months :          2500           2.5           525
- Next 6 months  :         4000           4.0           840
- Second Year    :         5500           5.5          1155
500 KW Units:  - First unit comissioned at each station
- First year               2500           2.5          1250
- Second year    :         4000           4.0          2000
- Third year               5000           5.0          2500
- Fourth year    :         5500           5.5          2750
500 KW Units:  - Subsequent units of each station
- First year      :        2500           2.5          1250
- Second year    :         4000           4.0          2000
- Third year      :        5500           5.5          2750
CTG 100 MW     - From commissioning        5500           5.5           550
Combined Cycle
(CTG+STG)      - First Year      :        4000            4.0          400
300 KW         - Second Year    :         5500            5.5           550



-67-
ANNEX 4.8
Page 3 of 7
(b) Fuel Costs:
Northern Region
Singrauli     Rihand       Muradnagar
Coal: 200 & 210 MW Units
- Calorific Value (Kcal/Kg)                  4900        N/A           3200
- Heat Rate (Kcal/KWh)                       2131        N/A           2043
- Boiler Efficienty Z                     87.49Z         N/A         87.52%
- Kgs per KWh                             0.4971         N/A         0.7295
- Price per ton-Rs                        231.40         N/A         312.15
- Cost per GWh:  Base Cost 1985           0.1150         N/A         0.2277
Coal: 500 MW Units
- Calorific Value (Kcal/Kg)                  4900       4000            N/A
- Heat Rate tKcal/KWh)                       2016       2027            N/A
- Boiler Efficienty Z                     86.63%      87.00%            N/A
- Kgs per KWh                             0.4749      0.5825            N/A
- Price per ton-Rs                        231.40      147.78            N/A
- Cost per GWh:  Base Cost 1984           0.1099      0.0861            N/A
Fuel Cost Factor to include Oil                120.0Z     120.0%         130.0%
Southern
Western Region         Region
Korba      Vindhyach      Ramagundam
Coal: 200 & 210 MW Units
- Calorific Value (Kcal/Kg)             3200            4350             4500
- Heat Rate (Kcal/KWh)                  2043            2150             2014
- Boiler Efficienty Z                 87.52%          86.49%           88.60%
- Kgs per KWh                         0.7295          0.5715           0.5051
- Price per ton-Rs                    112.84          147.78           258.07
- Cost per GWh:  Base Cost 1985       0.0823          0.0844           0.1304
Coal: 500 MW Units
- Calorific Value (Kcal/Kg)             3200             N/A             4500
- Heat Rate (Kcal/KWh)                  2016             N/A             2033
- Boiler Efficienty Z                 86.692             N/A           87.28Z
- Kgs per KWh                         0.7267             N/A           0.5176
- Price per ton-Rs                    112.84             N/A           258.07
- Cost per GUh:  Base Cost 1985       0.0820             N/A           0.1336
Fuel Cost Factor to include Oil           130.0%          120.0%           120.0%



-68-
ANNEX 4.8
Page 4 of 7
Eastern Region
Farakka    Kahalgaon        Talcher
Coal: 200 & 210 NW Units
- Calorific Value (kcal/kg)              3200          3200           N/A
- Heat Rate (kcal/kWh)                   2020          2150           N/A
- Boiler Efficienty %                  87.16%        86.49%           N/A
- kgs per kWh                          0.7242        0.7768           N/A
- Price per ton-Rs                     120.05        120.50           N/A
- Cost per GWh:  Base Cost 1984        0.0869        0.0933           N/A
Coal: 500 NW Units
- Calorific Value (kcal/kg)              3200           N/A           2800
- Heat Rate (kcal/kWh)                   2027           N/A           2060
- Boiler Efficienty Z                  86.69%           N/A         87.00Z
- kgs per kWh                          0.7307           N/A         0.8456
- Price per ton-Rs                     120.05           N/A          78.00
- Cost per GWh:  Base Cost 1984        0.0877           N/A         0.0660
Fuel Cost Factor to include Oil             130.0Z        130.0%        130.0%
Northern & Western Regions
Gas Based Stations       All Regions
Combined Cycle         Coal Fired
CTC         (CTG+STG)   New Projects
Coal: 200 NW and 210 MW Units
Combined Cycle Units
- Calorific Value (kcal/kg &        -               -           3800
kcal/Nm )      8800            8800           -
- Heat Rate (kcal/kWh)              920             920         2043
- Boiler Efficienty Z            33.40%          46.53Z       86.69Z
- kgs per kWh                    0.3130          0.2247       0.6202
- Price per ton Rs &
1000 Nm-Rs   1800.00         1800.00       201.86
- Cost per GWh: Base Cost 1985 0.5634            0.404        0.1252
Coal: 500 MN Units
- Calorific Value (kcal/kg)         -               -           4520
- Heat Rate (kcal/kWh)              -               -           2027
- Boiler Efficienty Z               -               -         87.00%
- kgs per kWh                       -               -         0.5155
- Price per ton-Rs                  -               -         201.86
- Cost per GWh: Base Cost 1985    -                 -         0.1041
Fuel Cost Factor to include Oil             -                -        130.0O



-69-
ANNEX 4.8
Page 5 of 7
The escalation rates applied to the above base 1985 fuel costs for
calculating cost increases and tariff fuel surcharges were are set out in
(c) below.
(c) Escalation Factors
The financial projections and project costs are based on 1985 prices
escalated at the following rates, except for orders already placed, in which
case, escalation is applied from award dates onward:
Fiscal Year              Foreign Costs            Local Costs
FY'86                      5.0Z                    7.0Z
FY'87                      7.5Z                    7.5Z
FY'88                      8.0%                    7.5%
FY'89                      8.0%                    7.5%
FY'90                      8.0X                    7.5Z
FY'91                      8.0X                    5.0%
FY'92 and thereafter       5.0%                    5.0%
The turbo-generators and boilers are, however, subject to the following
maximum price escalation from the date of order:
Singrauli 200 MS units - 25%
Korba, Ramagundam, Farakka, and other 200/210 MW units - 20Z
(In the case of Vindhyachal (210 NW units) fixed-price contracts
apply)
500 MW units for all projects - 15Z Turbo - generators
- 20% Steam - generators
Physical contingencies
Civil works - 10% of construction costs
Equipment   -  5% of equipment costs
(d) Operations & Maintenance Expenses
Power stations - 2.5% on original cost of 200 MW plant
- 2.0% on original cost of 500 MW plant
Transmission   - 1.0% on original cost
(e) Depreciation
Power stations - 3.5Z on original cost of plant
Transmission   - 2.6% on original cost



-70-
ANNEX 4.8
Page 6 of 7
(f) Auxilliary Consumption
Auxilliary power consumption for station use has been assumed at 10%
for 200/210 MW units and combined cycle gas!steam units and 7% for 500 MW
units.
(g) Tariffs
Tariffs have been based on the formulae of the Regional bulk supply
contracts which provide for:
(i) fuel costs with an automatic fuel price adjustment clause;
(ii) depreciation applied to capital costs escalated to the time of
expenditure;
(iii) operations and maintenance costs based on capital costs for
power plants and transmission facilities, escalated to current
costs;
(iv) loan interest at the prevailing GOI interest rate (currently
13.5Z) on estimated balance of loan principal outstanding; and
Cv)  return on equity at 107.
(h)  Capital Requirements
Ci) Other capital requirements would be met by NTPC's internal cash
generation combined with GOI advances in the form of equity and
share capital subject to the condition that unpaid loans, at the
end of each year, does not exceed sphare capital  and retained
earnings. Equity capital advances would preceed GOI loan
funding except for Bank Loan 2555-IN and the Bank loan for the
proposed Project.
(ii) GOI loans (including the onlending of the proposed Bank loan
and previously approved credits and loans) are assumed to
finance projects included in NTPC's investment program.
Interest on loans up to the date of comfissioning of each unit
would be capitalized, while subsequent interest would be charged
to Revenue. Repayment of principal is assuwied in 30 semi-annual
installments commencing on the first anniversary following the
end of the five-year grace period. The total loan drawdown for
each year, and for each project, is assumed as a separate GOI
loan for purposes of loan repayments.



-71-
ANNEX 4.8
Page 7 of 7
(i) Balance Sheet
(i) Cash is assumed at 10 days operating expenses less depreciation.
(ii) Accounts receivable are assumed at a level equivalent to four
months total operating revenue for FY'85, 3 months for FY'86,
and 2 months for FY'87 and for each year thereafter.
(iii) Inventories are assumed at a level equivalent to 15 days coal
costs (including fuel surcharge), 60 days oil costs, 1.5 years
cost of spares requirements, and 6 month's cost of chemicals
and lubricants.
(iv) Loans and advances are assumed at 1Z of annual revenue, Rs 15
million, an added Rs 2 million per year to provide for loans to
officers.
(v) Other current assets are assumed to be a constant figure of 4
million each year.
(vi) Current 'Liabilities are assumed at 1Z of annual fuel costs, 15
days of salaries, 2Z of annual operations and maintenance costs,
loan principal repayments projected for the subsequent year, and
2.5 months' average yearly capital e*penditure.



-72-
ANNEX 4.9
Page I of 2
INDIA
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION LIMITED
COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Commercial Arrangements for Sale of NTPC Power
1.01    The Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) received for SEB's of the
Northern (Singrauli) Region, the Western (Korba) Region, the Southern
(Ramagundam) Regions, and the Eastern (Farakka) Region, represent interim
agreements between NTPC and the relevant SEBs for the sale of power, and
will remain in effect until replaced by revised bulk supply contracts.
Although the MOUs defined most of the factors, terms and conditions con-
sidered necessary by the Bank, clarifications were sought, during nego-
tiations for Loan 2442-IN, concerning the validity of the contracts after
their expiration dates, provision for a capacity charge, provision for
NTPC profits, and the calculation of the flat tariff rates.  During these
negotiations GOI and NTPC provided satisfactory clarification on these
points. The Indian delegation provided a copy of a legal opinion that the
MOUs will remain legally valid after their expiration date and until
replaced be revised contracts. They also provided details of the calcula-
tion of the interim flat rate tariffs, clarifying that the rates included
correctly, all factors which were of concern to the Bank, which included
a NTPC profit component of 10% on GOI equity, and loan interest at the
GOI onlending rate (currently 13.5%). It was also clarified that the MOUs
contracts include provision for a commitment (capacity) charge, which is
not at present recovered as a separate element in the tariff, but is
covered by the overall variable tariff rate. The Indian delegation
explained that at the present stage of development, the inter-state trans-
mission systems had not advanced to the point where NTPC could ensure
supply of the SEBs' agreed power allocations. Owing to the contractual
financial penalities of non-supply of allocated power, which are a part of
the commitment charge provision, it was considered premature at that stage
for NTPC to bill SEBs for power sales on the basis of a two-tier tariff
(fixed commitment charge plus variable energy charge).
1.02    Contracts have not yet been received for the Bihar and West Bengal
SEBs of the Eastern Region which were due in July 1984. Submission to the
Bank of signed contracts for the States of the Eastern and Southern
Regions was made a condition of effectiveness for Loan 2442-IN.  At the
request of GOI, the Bank has recently extended the date of loan effective-
ness to August 30, 1985, pending receipt of satisfactory bulk supply
contacts for the two outstanding Eastern Region SEBs. During negotiations
for Loan 2442-IN, GOI and NTPC agreed to provide to the Bank revised bulk



-73-
ANNEX 4.9
Page 2 of 2
supply contracts for all four Regions, by March 31, 1986, incorporating
the following:
(a) provision for periodic renewal of the contracts
beyond the initial validity period;
(b) at the time of renewal, replacement, or extension of
the contracts, but in any event at not more than
three-year intervals, revision, where required, of the
tariffs and the factors for their calcuLation to
ensure recovery of NTPC's operating costs and loan
interest, and generation of a satisfactory level of
net income;
(c) provision for a commitment (capacity) charge be introduced
at a time considered appropriate by NTPC; and
(d) definition of the NTPC profit component of the tariffs.



-74-
ANNEX 5.1
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION
COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Internal Economic Rate of Return
As described in Chapter 5, the proposed Project forms an integral
part of the expansion programs for the Northern and Western Regions and,
therefore, cost-benefit analysis needs to be carried out on each program as a
whole rather than on elements of the Project in isolation. A time-slice of
each Region's investment program has, therefore, been analyzed.l/ Capital
cost, incremental operation and maintenance, incremental fuel cost and
benefit streams for the Northern and Western Regions are shown in Tables 1
and 2 respectively. Assumptions underlying these figures are detailed below.
Capital Costs
Anticipated capital expenditure on generation at financial prices has
been converted to economic prices by (i) expressing the imported content at
cif prices; (ii) valuing unskilled local labor at 0.75 of the market wage
rate; and (iii) applying the estimated standard conversion factor, 0.8, to
local costs. Transmission and distribution capital expenditures have been
estimated at 40% of generation expenditure.
Operation and Maintenance Costs
Incremental annual operating and maintenance costs have been
estimated as the following percentages of capiftal value: thermal generating
plant 2.5Z, hydroelectric 1.13% (Northern), 22 (western), and transmission
and distribution 1.0%.
1/ The programs analysed predate the Seventh Plan but include the combined
cycle stations which from the proposed Project. Not all of the other
stations included in these programs will necessarily be included in the
Seventh Plan, but this will not materially affect the rates of return
calculated.



-75-
ANNEX 5.1
Page 2 of 5
Fuel Costs
Average fuel consumption of new coal-fired plant has been estimated
at 0.61 kg in the Northern Region and 0.7 kg in the Western Regiona. The
economic cost of coal at the pit head has been estimated at Rs 164/ton. It
has been estimated that in each Region approximately 65% of incremental
thermal generation will be in minemouth stations and 35Z will be in load
center stations. The average economic cost of delivering coal to load center
stations has been estimated at Rs 310/ton. The opportunity cost of gas has
been estimated, by reference to fuel oil parity, at Rs 1,800/ MCM. The heat
rate of the combined cycle stations is estimated to be 1955 Kcal/kWh and the
calorific value of the gas is estimated to be 8,700 Kcal/normal cubic metre.
Case 1. Benefits
Case 1. benefits are based solely on incremental revenue at existing
tariff levels.  These allow for system losses which are assumed to remain
constant at 20% of net generation in the Northern Region and 16.5Z in the
Western Region. The average financial tariffs as of January 1, 1985, are
estimated to be Rs. 0.49/kWh in the Northern Region and Rs. 0.63/kWh in the
Western.  After allowing for (a) an increase in DESU's tariff of just over
50% in April, 1985; (b) general inflation of approximately 8% during the
course of 1985; and (c) a standard conversion factor of 0.8, the correspond-
ing average economic tariffs at current prices are Rs. 0.45/kWh in the North-
ern Region and Rs. 0.55/kWh in the Western Region.
Case 2. Benefits
In Case 2, the benefits of incremental consumption include elements
of consumers' surplus for both industrial and agricultural consumers.
Surplus has been imputed at half of the difference between che average tariff
for each category in each Region, and the alternative costs of autogeneration
for industrial consumers and diesel pumping for agricultural.
The cost of industrial autogeneration has been estimated as follows:
Purch be price (incl. installation)        Rs 4,300/kW
Life of set                                   15 years
Average utilization                             30%
Discount rate                                   12%
Operation and maintenance cost              Rs 215/kW per annum
Fuel and lubricant                         Rs 0.80/kWh
Average cost                               Rs 1.12/kWh
The cost of electricity which would make electrical pumping equiv-
alent to diesel is calculated as follows:



-76-
ANNEX 5.1
Page 3 of 5
Electric         Diesel
Motor/engine size                           5.0 HP           7.0 HP
Life Years                                 15.0             10.0
Investment Cost                           Rs. 4000          Rs. 10250
Cost of diesel/hr                             -             Rs. 4.82
Annual Costs
Annual Charges                             Rs. 526          Rs. 1668
O&M                                        Rs. 890          Rs. 2500
Electricity/diesel
(800 hrs/year)
Electricity costing
X /kWh                                     Rs. 2984 X       Rs. 3853
Toeal annual cost                          Rs. 1416 +       Rs. 8021
2984 X
Marginal cost of electricity              X = (8021-1416)/2984
at which diesel and electricity              = Rs. 2.21/kWh
are equivalent
Average industrial and agricultural financial tariffs as of
January 1, 1985, in the Northern Region are estimated at Rs. 0.61/kWh and
Rs. 0.29/kWh respectively. After allowing for inflation of approximately 8X
during 1985, estimated willingness to pay, converted into economic terms at a
standard conversion factor of 0.8, is Rs. 0.75/kWh for industrial and
Rs. 1.08/kWh for agricultural. Combining these with revenue estimates of thb
benefits to other consumers gives an averaze benefit of Rs. 0.82/kWh in
economic terms.
Similar calculations lead to an average benefit of Rs. 0.78/kWh in
the Western Region.



-77-                           ANNEX 5.1
Page 4 of 5
INDIA
COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Table 1:   Northern Region Investment Program
Economic Rate of Return
(Rs million)
Fin.   Capital                        Total    Incr.      Net       Net
Year      Exp.       O&M     Fuel      Cost   Sales  Benefitl Benefit2
(Gwh.)
1985     1556         0        0      1556        0    -1556    -1556
1986     4545        13        0      4556        0    -4558    -4558
1987    12562       699        0    13261         0   -13261   -13261
1988    18062      1687        0    19749         0   -19749   -19749
1989    24929      1819      722    27470      1501   -26796   -26232
1990    25870      1309     2221    29399      5794   -26797   -24620
1991    20996      1294     3071    25361      9378   -21149   -17626
1992    17697      1788     4749    24234    15886   -17099   -11130
1993    14916      2130     6313    23359    23522   -12794    -3955
1994    13425      2495     7598    23518    34182    -8165       4678
1995    11525      2316     8910    22752    42878    -3492    12618
1996      787      2316     9377    12479    46303       8318    25716
1997      787      2316     9746    12848    49069       9192    27629
1998      787     2316    10052    13154    51394        9930    29240
1999      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2000      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2001      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2002      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2003      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2004      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2005      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2006      787      2316    10319    iT421    53446    10585    30666
2007      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    105B5    30666
2008      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2009      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2010      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2011      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2012      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2013      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2014      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2015      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2016      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2017      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2018      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2019      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
2020      787      2316    10319    13421    53446    10585    30666
ERR      ERR
3       12



-78-
ANNX $. 1
Page 5 of 5
INDIA
COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Table 2:    Western Region Investment Program
Economic Rate of Return
(Rs million)
Fin.  Capital               Fuel    Total    Incr.    Net          Net
Year     Exp.       D&M     Cost      Cost   Sales  Benefitl Benefit2
(Swh)
1985     6898                         689B              -6698    -6696
1986    10193                        10193             -10193   -10193
1967    16727         7       55    16769       203   -16686   -16643
1966    22961       174       86    23223       725   -22857   -22701
1989    20033       287      793    21113      3226   -19484   -16790
1990    14755      739      2000    17494      7266   -13824   -12262
1991    11595       965     3383    15944    12545    -9608    -6911
1992     7517      1636     5495    14647    23182    -2941       2044
1993     4218     2046      7372    13636    34199       3635    10987
1994     2408     2107      8438    12952    40595       7549    16276
1995      812     2124      6927    11863    45360    11054    20811
1996              2124      9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
1997              2124      9034    11158    45775    11959    21600
1998              2124      9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
1999              2124      9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2000               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2001               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2002               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2003               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2004               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2005               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21600
2006               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2007               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2008               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2009               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2010               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2011               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2012               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2013               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2014               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2015               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
20%.6              2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
201.7              2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800O
2018               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
2019               2124     9034    11158    45775    f1959    21600
2020               2124     9034    11158    45775    11959    21800
ERR      ERR
7       13



-79-
ANNEX 6.1
INDIA
COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
Relate.d Documents in the Project File
1.      Feasibility Report for Gas Based Combined Cycle Power Project at
Kawas, Gujarat, Development Consultant Private Limited, Calcutta
(India), April 1985
2.      Feasibility Report for Gas Based Combined Cycle Power Project at
Anta, Rajasthan, Development Consultant Private Limited,
May, 1985
3.      Feasibility Report for Gas Based Combined Cycle Power Project at
Auraiya, Uttar Pradesh, Development Consultant Private Limited,
May, 1985
4.      Sectoral Data for World Bank Appraisal, CEA, Delhi, June, 1985
5.      Project Detailed Cost Estimate - COMPASS, October 22, 1985
6.      NTPC, 9th Annual Report, 1984-85



So ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t _tw HIMACHAL .  ir                         r               or
(    \ ~~PRADESH                                   INI
vPUNJAB.^ i gt                    COMBINED CYCLE POWER PROJECT
r-t- . sS .i R^ib ~MAJOR POWER STATIONS
PAKISTAN                    t^*            .1                                    AND
/  -t   Fizis       {            *\  ~~~EXTRA HIGH VOLTAGE GRID
z9,,._./    r:,7 i.ugt 'stA R \.4    ~~~~~~~~~ep8 t- CHINAn/    _
(             IV O  R, rsVX ,~ N  0                                             SIMIkl BHUTAN
S             <   ;>r  < ,  NG  Q^E.>egjop",                                          .-L
N--  [o v                                   t  O  R  I S S A                   -    t~~~~D  I 
R       A I A SH T H A N AT                         Suaiw                                AfSCAM 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                                                     ME   LAYA-i SE A
- -   .           *       g_[       H   t    Itj  > Mhilwove 0-  .              For kNa
-   r  <,  ju"fx av.l. . D                                               -s_
Nord                                                         FA. g -Y' pR If-Z V U
L- .1 Arba                                                                        ftol Munrobd-  -         Ht   X         * N.
-   .                      5 P R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~A D H,,f Y } A                 *WnEST
Se~.   GUAA            KANTAAo fh                 pw                       0NE    XIN
Z::\ -             -                                 V0 Uib
JaiurOIIt                                                                         I    _r1:20vLn
3TEWC-              Polh                                        Y
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      R   I S S 
F -~~~~~~~~~~~~~' IRAL R   A   D HU                                               b  f ono
t  ___ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mnu                                        of OUTSAEOSD INATONEALEWAAL
- .--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ }~~~                            COUIECD t4OVSED 3NCL1O85  POW>ER 3at SEE
=o____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or V!ool ,.                          TETOAyNcMToNTHATMCy& P  wLY          am
->~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rdw _.                                     ----                   220 TOUC AREArs
'.-:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                        40 ILV UomANA 



