Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No.10747
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1601-GH)
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT A-1-GH
JAPANESE GRANT 1601-1-GH
JUNE 16, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =   Cedis c
US $ 1.0(1985) =   53 Cedis (SAR)
US $ 1.0(1986) -   89 Cedis
US $ 1.0(1987)  =   154 Cedis
US $ 1.0(1988) =   203 Cedis
US $ 1.0(1989) =   270 Cedis
US $ 1.0(1990) =   326 Cedis
US $ 1.0(1991) =   367 Cedis
METRIC SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB  -      African Development Bank
BHC   -      Bank for Housing and Construction
DFR   -      Department of Feeder Roads
DUR  -       Department of Urban Roads
ERR   -      Economic Rate of Return
GHA  -       Ghana Highway Authority
ILO   -      International Labor Organization
MMU  -       Mobile Maintenance Unit
MTC  -       Ministry of Transport and Communications
MRH  -       Ministry of Roads and Highways
MTPU -       Mechanical Training and Production Unit
PMU  -       Project Management Unit
PPF   -      Project Preparation Facility
RTPU  -      Road Training and Production Unit
SAR   -      Staff Appraisal Report
SMC  -       Single-Man Contractor
TRP-1 -      First Transport Rehabilitation Project
TRP-2 -      Second Transport Rehabilitation Project
TSSN  -      Transport Sector Strategy Note
UNDP -       United Nations Development Programme
VOC   -      Vehicle Operating Costs
vpd   -      Vehicles per day
WFP  -       World Food Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office o' Directw-Genital
Operatkns Evaluhai(n
June 16, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on Ghana Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project (Credit 1601-GH)
African Facility Credit A-1-GH
JaRanese Grant 1601-1-GH
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Ghana Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
(Credit 1601-GH), African Facility Credit A-1-GH, Japanese Grant 1601-1-GH"
prepared by the Africa Regional office with Part II of the report prepared
by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFmFCIL USE ONLY
P&QJEq(T COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1601-GH)
AFRICAN FArILITY CREDIT A-1-GH
JAPANESE GRANT 1601-1-CH
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No,
PREFACE  ..................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY . .......................................i
PART I:          PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                          ........    1
A.      Project Identification  .................................    I
B.      Projea  Background ..................................    1
C.      Project Objectives and Description  ........................    2
D.      Project Design and Organization ..........................    3
E.      Project Implementation ................................    5
F.      Major Results of the Project  ............................    9
G.      Project Sustainability .................................   11
H.      Association Performance ...............................   11
I.      Borrower's Performance ...............................   12
J.      Project Relationships .................................   14
K.      Consultant and Contractor Services  ........................   14
L.      Project Docimentation ................................   15
PART II:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .... .... 16
A.      Introduction .......................................   16
B.      Adequacy of Factual Infonmation in Part III ...................  16
C.      Comments on Analysis Contained in Part I of PCR   ..............                   16
D.      Bridge Development Program   .........                ..................   17
E.      Pilot Feeder Road Program  ...........                ..................   18
F.      Accra- Kumasi Road Rehabilitation  .......               .................   18
G.      Contractor's Classification ............             ..................   18
H.      The Road Fund  ....................................   18
I.   PMU Coordinating Role ................................  8
J.   The Bank's Performance ................................ 19
K.      The Borrower's Performance  ..........                ..................   19
L.      Relationship Between the Bank and the Borrower  .....                ..........  19
M.      Perfbrmance of Co-Financiers  .........               ..................   19
N.      Conclusion  ......................................    19
'this document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance
of theitr offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)                                                                      Page No.
PART m:           STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .........................   20
A.       Related Bank Loans and Credits  ..........................   20
B.       Project Timetables ...................................   21
C. CreditData .                                                                                   22
(i) Credit Disbursements ..................................   22
(ii) Allocation of Credit 1601-GH Proceeds  ..............  23
(iii) Allocation -f Credit A-1i-H   ....................   23
D.   Project Costs .             ...................................... 24
E.       Project Results ...........                 ..........................   25
(i) Accomplishments  ............................   25
(ii) Economic Impact ............................   25
F.       Use of Bank Resources .                                  .                               26
(i) Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weeks ....             ..  26
(ii) Mission Data ...............................   27
G.  Compliance with Credit Covenants .29



PROJECT COMPLETTON REPORT
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1601-OH)
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT A-1-OH
JAPANESE GRANT 1601-1-OH
PREFACE
i)    This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project for which Credit 1601-GH in the amount of SDR 40.4 million (US $40
million equivalent), was approved on June 4, 1985. On August 12, 1985, additional funding
of SDR 11.1 million (US $10 million equivalent) was approved through Credit A-1-GH of the
African Facility. On January 29, 1987, a Japanese Grant Agreement (1601-1-GH) was signed
between the Republic of Ghana and IDA for Yen 700,000,000. The last disbursement on
Credit 1601-GH was made on November 7, 1991 and the undisbursed balance of SDR
182,410.53 was canceled as of January 30, 1992. The last transaction on Credit A-1-GH was
processed on January 24, 1992; this credit was fully disbursed.
ii)    This PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Western
Africa Department. It was based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit and Project
Agreements, the correspondence files, supervision reports and interviews with Bank staff.
The Borrower provided useful material through its draft PCR written by the Project
Management Uniit which was used extensively in preparing this repor.. Part II of the report
was prepared by the Ministry of Roads and Highways.
iii)   Co-financiers included the African Development Fund, the Japanese Government and
the United Nations Development Programme. The World Food Programme contributed food
which was used as an incentive for road workers. IDA acted as administrator for both the
African Facility and the Japanese Grant. The ILO made a substantial contribution to the
labor-intensive component of the Project.



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1601-GH)
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT A-1-GH
JAPANESE GRANT 1601-1-GH
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.    The main objectives of the Project were: (i) to strengthen the road agencies in Ghana;
(ii) to revitalize road maintenanc-, operations; (iii) to reduce t-ansport costs; (iv) to rehabilitate
a section of the most important road in the country; (v) to introduce labor-intensive
technology in feeder road rehabilitation; (vi) to improve feeder road maintenance; (vii) to
improve transport planning; and (viii) to assist in the rationalization of transport policies (para
7.)
ImDlementation Experience
ii.    The Project was slow in starting-up, but once underway, it progressed well. It was
completed with only a one year delay; this was good performance, given the many problems
which had to be overcome (para 19).
iii.   A shortage of local currency for the road maintenance component handicapped
execution of the trunk road maintenance componcht ard the pilot feeder roads components
during the Project's initial period. The latter component provided the basis for a feeder roads
project which was presented to IDA's board in December 1991 (parr 20-29).
Results
iv.    Overall, the Project was successfully executed; it was particularly successf&l in
carrying out many institutional improvements on which earlier highway projects had had
mixed results (para 34).
v.    Under the road maintenance component, accomplishments included 100% of the
planned target for periodic maintenance works, but only 80% of the programmed routine
maintenance work. The once overstaffed Ghana Highway Authority (GHA) reduced its
manpower by about 2000 employees. Local road contractors were trained in contracting
operations, equipped through sub-loans and contracting procedures were switched over from
ad hoc awards to competitive bidding. The capacity of the local contracting industry
including quarry operators was greatly increased. A comprehensive training program was
carried out, and planning units set up in the executing agencies. The Central Workshop is
now being efficiently managed, but its importance was gradually reduced by the increasing
practice of contracting out road works rather than using departmental forces (paras 37-38).



iii
vi.    All of the bridge works were completed. The pilot feeder road program, which
introduced labor-intensive methods, was highly successful and was one of the major
accomplishments of the Project. The major rehabilitation of a key road link encountered
some problems but it was satisfactorily completed (paras 39-43).
vii.   The economic reappraisal by the Project Consultants shows that performance under
the trunk road maintenzalce component was slightly below the appraisal estimate. However,
the reappraised ERRs et the bridge component and the rehabilitation of a section of the
Accra-Kumasi Road wa; higher than the appraisal estimate. The feeder road component
yielded high economic returns, and in addition made a major socio-economic impact (para
44).
Sustainability
viii.  The Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH) and its agencies are expected to obtain
long term benefits from the Project, provided that adequate local funding is made available.
This, in fact, is being done under the two follow-up transport projects now under execution
(para 45).
Findings and Lessons Learned
ix.    The channeling of African Facility and Japanese Grant funds through IDA contributed
to the successful implementation of the Project (Para 46).
X.    The Project was well designed and comprehensive in scope so as to tackle the many
problems of road maintenance in Ghana, and took into account the lessons learned from
earlier road projects (para 46).
xi.    Credit for the success of the Project, is due in part to (i) time'y provision of scarce
financial resources by the Government and the establishment of the Road Fund (para 51); (ii)
the close working relationships between IDA, the Government, and MRH and its agencies
(para 56); and (iii) the adequacy and continuity of IDA snpervision (para 47).
xii.   The Project was successful in implementing a number of important policies and
institutional objectives, and it provided a sound basis for the design and execution of two
follow-on projects now underway (para 48).
xiii.  The Government's bold ERP which started in about 1983, proved successful in
reversing the economic mismanagement and neglect of infrastructure over the past two
decades. The ERP provided a suitable environment which contributed to the success of the
Project (para 50).
xiv.   The food aid provided by the WFP proved effective in increasing productivity and
performance at GHA, DFR and MRH (para 51).
xv.   The change over to closer control by a strong ministry led to improved performance
on the part of GHA (para 53).
xvi.   A major constraint during the Project was the shortage of maDagement staff at MRH
and its agencies. Further strengthening of the MRH agencies is needed, particularly ensuring



iv
an adequate supply of management personnel. This is being pursued under the ongoing road
projects (para 54).
xvii.  The Project placed a heavy burden on BHC, a reliance that may have been over
optimistic. A longer term goal is the consistent supplv of equipment and spare parts through
the private sector. This is now being done since the Government has allowed a free market in
foreign exchange, thus contractors can convert cedis to foreign currency in order to buy
equipment and spare parts (para 55).
xviii. The successful execution of the Project on schedule is also credited to the use of a
project management unit in a coordinating and monitoring role, the close cooperation of
MRH, GHA, DFR and BHC in implementing the Project, and the participation of UNDP and
ILO in overseeing the feeder road component and of WFP in providing food aid to road
workers, and of AfDB and Japanese Government in providing key cofinancing inputs (paras
29, 37, 57, and 58).
xix.   Given the problems encountered with the Central Workshop over the past decade and
the reduction in GHA's force account work, the role of the shop has been reduced to routine
maintenance of equipment and support to GHA's mobile maintenance units (para 59).
xx.   Domestic consulting firms are being used increasingly on road design and supervision
work. The domestic contracting industry has been strengthened under the Project, and local
quarries were assisted in expanding their output (paras 60 and 61).



PROJECT COMPLETION R4PORT
GHANA
ROAD REHAB3ILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1601-GH)
t.FRICAN FACILI1Y CREDIT A-1-GH
JAPANESE GRMNT 1601-1-GH
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identification
Project Name: Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP)
Credit Nos.:  1501-GH, A-1-GH, 1601-1-GH
RVP Unit:   Infrastructure Operation Division, Western Africa Department
Country:    Republic of Ghana
Sector:     Transportation
B.    Project Backgrond l/
1.    At the time of project appraisal in 1984, Ghana had just begun to recover from a
disastrous collapse of its economy. The Government, with IDA assistance, had started to
initiate an Economy Recovery Program (ERP) in 1983 which was designed, in part, to help
restore the transport sector, expand and improve sub-sector institution building goals, and
focus attention and financing of the donor community towards Ghana's urgent needs.
2.    The capacity of virtually all transport modes in Ghana was inadequate to meet even
the reduced level of demand prevailing at that time, due to lack of regular maintenance and
upkeep for the last decade or more. As a result, the transport system had nearly broken down
during the early 1980's and remained a serious constraint to the country's economic recovery.
Finally, in 1984, the economy began to respond to the efforts to restore its growth.
3.    Tke Government's transport strategy under ERP emphasized maintenance and
rehabilitation of the existing infrastructure rather than new construction. This strategy was
the basis of the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP), better known in
Ghana as the Fourth Hig'vaiy Project. It was also the basis of the three earlier highway
projects (see Part III, Annex A). The First and Second Projects achieved only mixed results.
The Bank's combined audit r;-- t for these two projects noted that while the physical
investments yielded acceptable economic retorns, the projects did not meet their institution-
building objectives.
4.    The Third Highway Project was devised to help the Ghana Highway Authority
(GHA), which is responsible for trunk roads, improve its performance. GHA is a semi-
autonomous agency with its own board of directors and originally came under the Ministry of
1/ Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Report No. 5479-GH dated May 14, 19GS, Chapters I and
II.



2
Public Works. Following the change of government in 1981, GHA's boaru was dissolved and
GHA came under the newly established Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH). Firstly,
GHA employed consultantr to reorganLe the workshops which were virtually at a standstill.
Secondly, GHA carried out a manpower study of its organization with a view to reducing
surplus staff. Thirdly, GHA set up a Mobile Maintenance Unit (MMU) with Japanese aid.
Fourthly, GHA started to contract out routine road maintenance to single man contractors
(SMCs) and periodic maintenance to domestic contractors. The domestic construction
industry was supported under the project through the Bank for Housing and Construction
(BHC), one of whose objectives was to develop and finance the industry with loans for
equipment, tools, spare parts and supplies. A serious problem under the Third Highway
Project was that sub-borrowers were required to assume the foreign exchange risk, a situation
which greatly added to their debt in the light of the rapid devaluation of the local currency.
The PCR for the Third Highway Project fouind that IDA had over-estimated the capacity of
GHA, particularly its Mechanical Division which was responsible for the workshops. It
concluded that "in retrospect, the project might be regarded as a holding operation to keep
GHA and BHC operating until the economy improver and another project. -ould be prope ed
to meet the need for a sustainable road maintenance program."21
5.    The SAR for the RRMP noted that while the main objective of the Third Highway
Project was to support maintenance, its execution faced major problems related to the
operation of both GHA and BHC. Both agencies had suffered acutely from the political and
economic instability which had faced Ghana over the past decade. In preparing the RRMP,
IDA concentrated on remedial measures to ease the problems of GHA and BHC. At about
the same time, other IDA lending operations were addressing the problems of ports and
railways, and the economic and financial woes of Ghar.a in an effort to revive the economy by
restoring its once prosperous export trade.
6.    The GHA and BHC had been the main beneficiaries of IDA lending under the first
three highway projects. Under the RRMP, it was intended to also assist the Department of
Feeder Roads (DFR) which was responsible for feeder roads, and the MRH which along with
GHA and DFR also had responsibility for the Deparunent of Urban Roads (DUR). The
DUR was set up in 1983 to look after urban roads, but at the time of appraisal its role and
function had yet to be defined.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
7.      oiect Objectiv  3/ The objectives of the project were: (a) to strengthen the road
agencies under MRH and revitalize road maintenance operations through support of increased
private sector participation, and the introduction of improved management in GHA and DFR
coupled with staff incentives and systematic training programs; (b) to reduce transport costs
and protect Ghana's la , past and future investments in the road sub-sector through improved
maintenance; (c) to rehauilitate a part of the Accra-Kumasi highway, the most important trunk
road in the country; (d) to foster the rehabilitation and recovery of the agricultural sector
mainly through improved feeder road maintenance; (e) to improve transport planning and to
reorient transport investment through careful selection of high priority investments and
ZI PCR for Third Highway (Emergency Maintenance) Project dated March 17, 1987.
a/ SAR, para 3.01.



3
increased emphasis on rehabilitation and maintenance; and (f) to assist in the rationalization of
transport policies, includ.ng adjustment of road user charges, thus ensuring better mobilization
and utilization of resources.
8.    Prolect Description QI The Project provided finzaicial assistance for the following
components:
(a)   three year (1986-88) requirements for rehabilitation and maintenance of
Ghana's trunk road network comprising:
a three-year time slice of GHA's road maintenance program, including
regravelling, paved road resurfacing and minor improvements, as well
as road and equip.nent maintenance; management and support to
domestic road contractors through sub-loans with BHC:
(ii)    a technical assistance program, benefitting MRH, GHA, DFR, BHC,
and domestic road maintenance contractors;
(iii)   a training program for staff of GHA and DFR;
(iv)   food aid as an incentive to reduce absenteeism and to increase
productivity of MRH and its agencies; and
(v)    project supervision and coordination.
(b)    a bridge rehabilitation program;
(c)    a three year pilot feeder roads program with DFR, comprising road and
drainage improvements and maintenance, using appropriate technology; and
(d)   rehabilitation of about 105 km of the Accra-Kumasi Road.
D.    Ptoiect Design and Organization
9.    The goal of the RRMP was to contribute to the Government's economic recovery
program by removing road transport obstacles to the vital export/impo,t trade, and the
movement of domestic farm outputs and inputs. The RRMP was designed to take advantage
of the lessons learned over the past three road projects and incorporated a number of new
.eatures. It laid particular stress on: (a) an increased level of maintenance by contract rather
than by force account as in the past; (b) an increased level of technical assistance to MRH,
GHA, DFR, BHC and the domestic road construction industry; (c) intensified training for
GHA and DFR personnel; (d) use of food aid as an incentive to workers; (e) the
establishment of a Project Management Unit (PMU) to supernise, expedite and coordinate the
Project; and (f) a pilot feeder roads program to assist DFR deve!op labor based technology for
the maintenance of feeder roads.
4/ SAR, para 3.02.



4
10.   Despite previous efforts under earlier highway projects, road conditions had further
deteriorated to such an extent that some important road sections had become practically
impassable, and road transport costs were high all over the country. The factors responsible
for GHA's poor performance were: ') insufficient foreign and local inputs and shortages of
fuel, materials and spare parts due to the critical finances of the Government; (b) delays in
payments to contractors; (c) inefficient management of GHA, particularly of its workshops
and stores; and (d) less than living wages for road workers.
11.   To combat these problems, (in the same order as para 10), IDA proposed and the
Gc -ernmerc agreed to: (a) establish a Road Fund financed by a new fuel tax; (b) implement
policies designed to speed up payments to contractors; (c) initiate an agreed action program to
reorganize GHA's equipment management, improve personnel management and adopt a plan
to transfer an increasing proportion of road maintenance works to contractors; and (d) seek
food from the World Food Programme (WFP) to be used as an incentive to increase
productivity. To assist GHA in carrying out its greatly expanded workload, the RRMP
provided tie PMU to assist with procurement, execution and monitoring of the Project.
12.   As regards BHC, the Government and BHC prepared a detailed action program which
incluued measures designed to: (a) strengthen the financial condition of BHC including a
restructuring of its capital; (b) transfer of foreign exchange risks from BHC to the
Government; (c) reorganize and strengthen BHC's staff through training; (d) improve BHC's
project appraisal and supervision acLivities; (e) strengthen BHC's accounting and management
information systems and internal controls; (f) improve BHC's loan recovery performance; and
(g) strengthen BHC5s commercial banking operation.
13.   Finally, to provide sector wide planning support for Ghana's transport sector, the
Government, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and IDA prepared a
coordinated program which wag largely financed by the UNDP and the RRMP. The program
provided for technical assistance and other support to strengthen planning units in GHA, DFR
and the Ministry of Transport and Comm.unications (MTC). The planning units were, in
coordination with one another, to prepare with expatriate assistance investment plans for the
sub-sector concerned, conduct project evaluation, improve collection and analysis of statistics,
and conduc. studies and analysis of transport problems. The UNDP was also to assist in
setting up a Planning and Programming Departnent in MRH to monitor and coordinate
planning work done by GHA and DFR. MRH was to coordinate with the MTC and the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning.
14.   Past experience had shown that better coordination between BHC, GHA, DFR and
private contractors was essential for efficient road maintenance. To provide such
coordination, and to assist BHC and MRH in the supervision of the various project elements,
the PMU was to continue for the duration of the project. The PMU was to be staffed with an
experienced team of consultants, and was to be attached to the new Monitoring and Evaluation
Department with MRH. Eventually PMU was to be absorbed by this Department.
15.   The difference between the earlier road projects and the RRMP, was that the latter
represented a more c,mprehensive and coordinated attack on the problems facing the road
sub-sector and the overall transport sector. The approach was innovative in that food aid was
used, which represented a powerful incentive to Ghanian road workers, given their low wages
and the parlous state of the economy. Also, the involvement of the UNDP with its technical
assistance inputs to GHA, DFR and MRH, lent weight to the need for strong action in the



5
planning field. In 1984, the Bank prepared a Transport Sector Strategy Note (TSSN) which
focused on the country's main transport problems and policy issues. The note provided a
basis for formulating the RRMP, and the railways and ports projects then under preparation.
16.   The Project was prepared with financing from a PPF advance of US$1.0 million. It
was appraised in September 1984 by a ,Ax person mission which placed particular emphasis on
training, and assistance to BHC. The feeder road component was appraised by a separate
three man team during a follow-up mission. Agreement was reached at negotiations held in
April 1985 on the matters discussed above, and particularly on the action plans for GHA and
BHC. Furthermore, it was agreed that conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be to
levy a road user tax, and the engagement of the PMU consultants. Annex B shows the
planned and actual project timetables.
17.   At the time the Project was submitted to the Loan Committee, a financing gap of
about US $12 million existed, despite the efforts of IDA to interest the donor community.
During negotiations, the Government repeatedly stated that it would give the highest priority
to the Project, and agreed to make a foreign exchange contribution of US $11.4 million from
its own resources.5/ A Japanese Grant of Yen 700 million (US $5.4 million equivalent)
was used mainly for equipment and spare parts. Given the foreign exchange shortage Ghana
was facing following approval of the Project, IDA subsequently made available an African
Facility Credit of SDR 10.1 million (US $10 million equivalent) in August 1985. The total
cost of the Project as estimated at appraisal was US $122.8 million, of which about 60% was
in foreign exchange.
18.   Credit Effectiveness The Credit was approved on June 4, 1985, signed on June 24,
1985 and became effective on November 1, 1985. The African Facility Credit for SDR 10.1
million was approved on August 12, 1985, signed on October 23, 1985 and became effective
on March 20, 1986. The Japanese Grant for Yen 700 million (US $5,384,000 equivalent)
was signed on January 29, 1987 and became effective on April 23, 1987. On June 5, 1987,
IDA amended the Credit Agreements for the above three credits to reflect the additional
fmancing available by adjusting the individual credit allocations appropriately.
E.    Project Implementation
19.   The PMU consultants mobilized in October 1985 and started work on drafting
procurement documents and assisting contractors. The workshop consultants under the
previous project continued their work, thus there was no break in this operation except for a
short delay caused by the need to relieve some of the earlier staff and replace them with new
personnel. The Project was slow in starting up, but once underway, it progressed reasonably
well given the many problems to be overcome. By May 1990, the Project was noted as
almost completed, except for an uncommitted balance of SDR 5.44 million under Credits
1601-GH and A-1-GH. Processing of procurement to use the remaining funds was in an
advanced stage. The Project was completed with only a one year delay, which was a very
good performance given the nature of the problems encountered, especially the shortage of
local funds. The following paragraphs summarize the highlights of project implementation
for each major component.
I/ Memorandum to SVPOP dated May 3, 1985.



6
20.   Trunk Road Maintenance Program  A special supervision of BHC in January 1986,
6/ shortly after project start-up, indicated that management had made substantial progress
particularly in the areas of staffing procedures and financial restructuring. The arrival of a
consultarnt team in mid 1986 was expected to significantly improve BHC's operational
capabilities. Two major problem areas were noted: BHC's continued high level of arrears
and the current inadequate level of provisions for arrears. The mission recommended that
BHC urge the Government to pay contractors in a timely fashion so that they could repay
their debts on a timely basis to BHC. This was eventually done as noted in para 22, thanks
mainily to the Road FRnd. Later, with the assistance of consultants, BHCs performance
improved steadily as the project progressed.
21.   A supervision visit in January 1987 J indicated that work had started on all of the
sub-components. The food program was in operation but, as yet it was not having much
impact on improving work output. The PMU procurement ant; contractor assistance provided
through seminars were proceeding well. Delivery of the bulk of the equipment was expected
to be completed by mid year. Thus it is not surprising that the mission found that there had
been no major improvement in road maintenance, because of the lack of equipment.
However, the report went on to say the financial situation had improved somewhat with the
creation of the Road Fund, but funding availability remained uneven and insufficient.
22.   By mid 1988, a supervision mission reported that good progress was being made, and
expected output for the rest of the year to far excel the levels reached in 1987.1/ The
reason for less than the targeted progress to date, was the complete switch over from ad hoc
contracting, to the more efficient competitive bidding which, however, required more time for
processing. Release of funds from the Road Fund was on schedule, and for the first time in
many years, GHA and DFR did not owe arrears to contractors.
23.   In late 1988, an IDA supervision consultant found that the situation at the Central
Workshops including the stores was highly unsatisfactory, despite five years of consultant
assistance. He recommended that the adequately equipped private sector be used to assist in
the repair and overhaul of equipment. He also suggested field operating and maintenance
standards needed to be improved to reduce equipment abuse.2/ However, by the end of the
Project, PMU noted that the consultants assistance to the shops had resulted in a efficient
operation with appropriate inventory control.10/
24.   The Project provided for a comprehensive program to train and upgrade CHA and
DFR road equipment personnel at all levels. The Project financed a tranche of a continuing
program which included the training of some 1600 personnel from engineers to supervisors,
operators, mechanics, warehousemen and cost clerks. To upgrade GHA's Training Division,
6/ Supervision Report dated April 19, 1986.
7/ Supervision Report dated March 20, 1987.
8/ Aide Memoire dated July 5, 1988.
2/ Supervision Report dated January 3, 1989.
:I0 Draft PCR by PMU dated June, 1991, para 11.02.



7
some of its staff were sent abroad for training. The training program included: (a) the setting
up of a Training Steering Committee under MRH leadership; (b) the strengthening of GHA's
Training Division; (c) the establishment of a Road Training Production Unit (RTPU) in GHA
for the training of road supervisors, and equipment operators and drivers; (d) the setting up of
a Mechanical Training Production Unit (MTPU) under GHA for the training of mechanical
personnel; (e) the purchase of training equipment and materials; (f) the recruitment of training
specialists and instructors; (g) the organization of periodic seminars and other special courses;
and (h) training abroad for selected staff. During project execution, the consultant services
for the RTPU and MTPU were extended to provide for additional training.
25.   Twenty domestic contractors received equipment through sub-loans passed on to them
from the IDA credit through BHC. Though the contractors often complained about high
interest rates and the foreign exchange risk passed on to them (see para 9 of Part II), this high
cost was absorbed by higher contract prices which were adjusted upwards with domestic
inflation resulting from cedi devaluation and other factors. Domestic contractors were also
given seminars by PMU which covered bid bonds, performance bonds, bank guarantees for
advance payments, how to prepare bids, etc. These measures, and the Road Fund which
provided regular flow of funds to pay the contractors boosted capacity of domestic
contractors. Eight selected quarry operators were assisted during the project with BHC
financed equipment. This was a particularly important aspect of the Project as it enabled the
quarries to greatly increase production of materials for road building, especially chips for
resealing and paving.
26.   Bridge Rehabilitation Program  Under this component, eleven bridges were repaired
and three additional bridges were reconstructed, as called for in the project description. A
Bridge Maintenance Unit (BMU) was organized for the southern part of the country and was
noted as performing well by early 1989. IDA agreed to a GHA request that a second BMU
be organized and equipped under TRP-2 in the northern part of Ghana to assist in bridge
repairs and maintenance.
27.   Pilot Feeder Roads Program This component was prepared by DFR with the
assistance of consultants and IDA staff. The International Labor Organization (ILO) actively
assisted in its implementation. It comprised rehabilitation of about 240 km of feeder roads in
western Ghana, spot improvements of about 700 km and routine maintenance of about 2000
km in selected regions of the country. It was designed as a pilot program with the intention
of gradually replicating it in other regions. The work was essentially labor-intensive. The
Project provided training for engineers, contractors, and workers, and assisted contractors in
procuring appropriate equipment. Road rehabilitation was carried out by local contractors,
while spot improvements and maintenance was done by force account. Light equipment was
made available to the contractors through BHC as sub-loans from IDA funds, with DFR
guaranteeing initial contracts to the contractors after training, and also guaranteeing
deductions from contractor bills to pay BHC. It was found that a contractor with about
$100,000 worth of equipment can rehabilitate 2 km of roads every month, employing about
120 people daily, and that the cost is about 15% cheaper than equipment-intensive methods;
this reflecas the fact that imports have become expensive with devaluation of the cedi; thus
encouraging use of local resources.
28.   In late 1988, an IDA supervision consultant reported that seven contractors had
completed their training. Four of these had taken delivery of their equipment and had
completed 8 km of trial roads. They were awarded 25 km long sections and after 4 months,
three were averaging 2 km per month while the fourth only achieved 1.2 km. Procurement



8
was noted as slow because of "ponderous bureaucracy and lack of urgency at BHC". Ll/
The Third group of 6 contractors started training in mid Ju,,e 1988 and were to finish by the
end of November when all 19 contractors in the program were to be deployed. The main
problem, apart from slow delivery of equipment, was noted as erratic cash flow for payments
to contractors. In 1988, the program was expanded to include about 600 km of cocoa roads.
In April 1989 at the request of DFR, IDA approved funding for four containerized workshops
and other equipment and tools to enable it to maintain its road maintenance equipment; the
equipment was delivered in 1990. Under the PAMSCAD (Project for Amelioration of Social
Costs of Adjustments), IDA and other cofinanciers have funded a second training center in
labor based road works at Kofurdia, to help replicate the program. In view of the success of
the feeder road program, the Government drew up a National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Program which provided the basis for a Feeder Roads Project presented to
IDA's board on December 17, 1991.
29.   Rehabilitation of 105 km of the Accra-Kumasi Road This component of the project
was financed by the AfDB. The contractor was selected under ICB and the work was
supervised by the design consultants. During construction, deficiencies showed up in a
portion of the road. An investigation by an independent consultant revealed that the
contractor's workmanship, and quality control by the supervision consultant on some sections
of the road were poor. The contractor was held responsible for replacing defective works and
has agreed to do so.12/ These repairs are to be carried out shortly. However, in spite of
these problems, most of the road has been rehabilitated, and has benefitted a growing volume
of traffic through significant additions in vehicle operating costs. AfD3B's funding and
supervision of this project have been critical in the success of this important component; IDA
and AfDB have cooperated effectively in carrying out this project.
30.   Procurement The PMU was closely involved in the substantial amount of
procurement which was carried out under the Project. IDA guidelines for ICB and LCB
were followed and the records indicate that procurement was generally carried out in a fully
satisfactory manner.
31.   Qisbursenment Despite the delays in starting the project, disbursements of Credit
1601-GH in US dollar terms proceeded somewhat ahead of the appraisal schedule until FY91-
FY92, as shown in Annex C(i). Even in SDR terms, disbursements were more or less on
schedule and the credit was closed without an extension of the closing date. The final
disbursement was made on November 7, 1991 and on January 30, 1992 the undisbursed
balance of SDR 182,410.53 was canceled. The last transaction on Credit A-1-GH was
processed on January 24, 1992; this credit was fully disbursed.
32.   Credit Allocations The original and actual allocations in SDR's for Credit 1601-GH
are shown in Annex C(ii). The differences between the two are mainly accounted for by the
amendment to the allocations following the availability of Credits A-1-GH and 1-GH. In
April 1990, as the project was nearing completion, the remaining funds were again
reallocated. The largest increase in allocation to a single category was made for additional
consulting services, training and studies for GHA. This enabled GHA to develop standard
11/ Supervision Report dated January 3, 1989.
12/ Report attached to a letter from the Secretary O' MRH dated April 9, 1990.



9
contract documens, provide further training and strengthen institutional capacity. The largest
reduction in allocation was for GHA equipment which was not needed because of the strategy
adopted by GHA to have all periodic road maintenance, and a large percentage of routine
maintenance works, executed by contract instead of by force account.
33.   Prgiect Costs The appraised and actual project costs are shown in Annex D. They
indicate that the project was completed at a cost somewhat above the appraisal estimate.
However, as noted in para 35, not all the road works envisioned at appraisal were carried out.
F.    Major Results of the Project
34.   Overall, the Project was successfully executed. It was particularly successful in
carrying out many institutional improvements in which earlier highway projects had had
mixed results (paras 3-5). These improvements included: (a) strengthening MRH, GHA and
DFR through technical assistance in key areas and through training; (b) introducing a staff
incentive scheme with support of food-aid from the WFP to supplement real wages; (c)
reducing the share of force-account works carried out by direct departmental labor; (d) setting
up a Road Fund to ensure regular flow of funds to the agencies and contractors; (e) starting
pilot projects for introducing labor-intensive road rehabilitation methods based on appropriate
technology consistent with the ERP which encourages use of domestic resources; and (f)
improving contractor capacity through sub-loans for equipment and parts, training,
enforcement of competitive bidding for all works, ensuring prompt and reasonable payments
to contractors and automatic price-escalation mechanisms. These measures have considerably
enhanced the institutional capacity of Govermment agencies, contractors and consultants in the
road sector. _3/
35.   The most serious shortcoming encountered in executing the Project was that the Road
Fund did not provide all the funding needed for project execution. Allocations to the Fund
was slow during the initial period and the Government was not always able to top up the
Fund, which it had expected to do. Thus, as noted in para 37, the amount of routine
maintenance works had to be reduced. Financing needs were higher than estimated because
of the large scope of the Project and rising costs. The latter was caused by the increasing
deterioration of the roads that had not as yet been rehabilitated, and the rising costs of road
works, especially resealing and regravelling. Costs in terms of local currency, which the
Government mainly provided, rose also on account of the depreciation of the cedi.
36.   Given the problems encountered on earlier projects, performance under the RRMP
was a substantial improvement. This improvement is attributed to careful project preparation
which took into account past problems and provided for detailed remedial measures to resolve
them (para 9). Further improvements need to be made and they are being tackled under the
ongoing TRP-1 and TRP-2 projects.
37.   Trunk Road Maintenance Program  Accomplishments include 100% of the planned
target for periodic maintenance works, but only 80% of the programmed routine maintenance
works. Under this component, local road contractors were trained in contracting operations
and provided with equipment supplies and spare parts. One noteworthy accomplishment of
I3/ SAR for TRP-2, para 2.12.



10
the Project was the preparation work carried out for switching local contractors over from ad
hoc contract awards to competitive bidding, which actually started under TRP-1. A less
successful feature of the Project was the over reliance on SMCs whose performance was not
as high as expected, at least initially, although subsequent evaluation is that SMCs are
effective (para 4). 14/ A comprehensive training program was carried out at all levels in
GHA and DFR. Planning units were set up in the executing agencies. Two MMUs were
established under the Project with financing under the Japanese Grant. The MMU concept
evolved into a efficient operation which allowed flexibility in allocating GHA forces. 15/
38.   The Central Workshop is now more efficiently managed, but their importance has
been gradually reduced by the increasing practice of putting road works out to contract rather
than using departmental forces. Now that a significant portion of routine maintenance work is
being carried out by contract (mainly SMCs), GHA was able to reduce its manpower by about
2000 employees. Lastly, quarry operators were assisted with equipment to help raise their
production. Studies were completed in 1989 of both the contracting industry and the quarries,
and recommended further imprcvements in their performance.
39.   Bridge Rehabilitation Program  All of the bridges in the Project were completed and
one BMU unit was set up. Use of the BMU by DFR, as well as GHA is a good indication of
the cross-agency sharing within MRH. 16/ The improvement in the condition of both the
trunk and feeder roads have greatly assisted the agriculture, mining and forestry sectors.
Annex E (i) shows that the Project met its targets except for routine maintenance of trunk and
feeder roads as a result of financial constraints.
40.   Pilot Feeder Road Program  The execution of the Pilot Feeder Road Program was
highly successful and it is one of the major accomplishments of the Project; 150 km of roads
were rehabilitated under the program. Under the guidance of IDA and ILO, the program
provided DFR with the skills to manage a labor based program. Twenty-one local contractors
were trained in labor based technology as well as 29 DFR engineers and 31 DFR
foremen. 17/ The program has caught the attention of other countries as a practical method
of improving their feeder roads with minimal use of foreign exchange, and as a means of
providing employment. The program is now being replicated in other regions of Ghana under
the ongoing First Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP-1).
41.   The objectives of the feeder road program were to: (i) provide the necessary
requirements for the evaluation of agriculture produce; (ii) attract commercial transport
operations into the area; (iii) provide easy access to available socio-economic facilities; (iv)
stimulate local economies through income injections; and (v) effect community participation in
road maintenance works. A final report on the socio-economic impact of the feeder road
component concluded that the objectives were fully attained. For completely inaccessible
routes or sections of routes, the transfer has been from headloading to cargo trucks and
14/ Supervision Report dated April 30, 1987.
1J/ Draft PCR by PMU, para 6.06.
16/ Draft PCR by PMU, para 6.07.
17/ Feeder Roads Improvement in Ghana, DFL, May 29, 1990.



11
articulated trucks. For seasonably accessible roads, the transfer has been from tractors and
trucks to trucks and articulators respectively. 18/
42.   Although mammy trucks and cargo trucks have become more prevalent, the most
competent newcomer on the scene are taxis which take a shorter time to fill and are faster
than heavy trucks, particularly for traders with small parcel loads. The previous access to
community facilities has been enhanced. The local economies have been improved as a result
of the creation of 0.5 million man days of employment and the C 146.48 million paid to
workers as wages. The component has been able to train a cadre of supervisors of
construction firms and the DFR is the management and implementation of labor based
controls. Lastly community participation in spot improvement has been commendable and
communities in many road corridors have set up their own maintenance groups to maintain
the roads.
43.   Rehabilitation of Accra-Kumasi Road As a result of the completion of this
component, weighted annual average traffic growth from 1986 to 1990 was 5%. Traffic
volumes in 1990 ranged from 1340 vpd on the Nkawkaw-Konongo section to 3400 on the
Ejisu-Kumasi section (see para 29).
44. Economic P ^ormanc The economic reappraisal by the PMU consultants shows that
performance under the trunk road maintenance component was slightly below the ERR
estimated at appraisal, though s.ill high. However, the reappraisal ERR of the bridge
component and the rehabilitation of the Accra-Kumasi Road was higher than the appraisal
estimate (see Annex E(ii). The feeder road component is believed to have yielded high
economic returns, however, they have not been quantified. In addition this component made
a major socio-economic impact in providing rural employment, and in developing road
maintenance methods and skills which are affordable and sustainable by the rural community.
G.    Proiect Sustainability
45.   The MRH and its agencies are expected to obtain the long term benefits of the
Project. However, shortfalls in local financing capacity could delay these benefits.
Government commitments to the Road Fund need to be expanded, if the ber.afits of the
Project are to be sustained. The Government undertook to do this under the ongoing TRP-1
and TRP-2, and to date it has met its obligations in this regard.
H.    Association Performance
46.   IDA did a thorough job of preparing the Project, which called for frequent visits as
part of supervision missions for ongoing road projects. IDA took into account the problems
encountered on past projects, the findings of the TSSN and the current state of the economy.
The channeling of African Facility and Japanese Grant funds through IDA contributed to the
successful implementation of the project by unifying control over much of the project funding.
The use of a project management unit to oversee the project was a sound decision. The
appraisal team included specialists in training, workshops and equipment, rural roads and a
financial specialist to look into BHC's operations. The result was a comprehensive analysis of
the problems facing the road sub-sector and the preparation of action plans to relieve them.
.M/ Final Report - Socio-Economic Impact Study by UNDP/ILO dated August 1990.



12
47.   IDA's divisional management followed the Project closely throughout the project
cycle. They participated in the appraisal as well as one of the supervision missions.
Supervision was frequent (see Annex F(ii)) and thorough, judging by the detailed supervision
reports and aide memoires left with the Government. Specialists were frequently called in to
supervise specific aspects such as training, procurement, the workshops and labor-intensive
maintenance. The adequacy of supervision is attested by the good results achieved under
difficult conditions. Continuity of the task manager, in spite of the Bank's reorganization
proved useful. IDA was flexible in adjusting the project scope to meet changing needs, and
in suitably altering the credit allocations (para 32). IDA's concurrent preparation and funding
of other comprehensive road rehabilitation programs (under TRP-1 and TRP-2) helped to
reinforce and enhance the RRMP impact and leverage.
48.   The overall result was that the RRMP, with its four major components, was
successfully carried out. Most policy and institutional objectives were achieved, including the
strengthening of MRH and its agencies. The contracting system was reformed with full
competitive bidding replacing the old ad hoc award practice, the contracting industry was built
up, and medium and long term plans were prepared for the future. The project provided a
sound basis for the design and execution of the two follow-up projects now underway.
49.   IDA also made substantial efforts to identify additional funding from the donor
community which were successful to a degree. It coordinated closely with the UNDP in
establishing the planning units in GHA, DFR and MRH and setting up the production units
with ILO participation. IDA also helped develop the use of food from the WFP as an
incentive to workers and staff in GHA, DFR and MRH. This innovative step encouraged
workers at a time when wages were low and food difficult to find, and was thus a major
contributor to the Project's success. The establishment of revolving funds for GHA, DFR
and BHC were particularly helpful to these agencies.
I.    Borrower's Performance
50.   The Government's bold ERP which started in about 1983, proved successful in
reversing the economic mismanagement and neglect of infrastructure over the past two
decades. The ERP provides a suitable environment which contributed to the success of the
Project. Under ERP, a liberal market economy free from the previous stringent controls was
gradually brought back, Government spending on priority infrastructure maintenance was
enhanced and by about the end of the Project period, foreign exchange markets were
liberalized.
51.   The Government recognized at the time of appraisal the difficulties facing the road
sub-sector and the economy. It willingly committed itself to the strong remedial measures
called for under the Project, the most important of which were to set up the Road Fund, and
stimulate the growth of the domestic construction industry, assess road user taxes, and carry
out a study of road user taxation. It endeavored to provide the additional funding needed, to
the extent these funds were available. The Government also took appropriate steps to provide
incentives and more attractive remuneration to engage the right calibre staff, and to retain
those already in service. The PMU noted that the Borrower's performance could be best



13
described as consistently improving.12/ The food aid provided by the WFP proved
effective in increasing productivity and performance at GHA, DFR, and MRH.
52.   The new and stronger management at the MRH took a close interest in the Project and
cooperated with IDA in ensuring that obstacles to progress were cleared away. Similarly, the
managements of GHA, DFR, and BHC closely cooperated in accomplishing the objectives of
the Project. Audits were performed on a timely basis, and they indicated that appropriate
records were maintained and that the funds were properly utilized. The generally satisfactory
performance of the Government and its agencies under the Credit ane Project Agreements is
reflected in Annex G.
53.   As noted in para 4, GHA is a semi -autonomous agency, but after the 1981 change in
government, it came under the MRH. GHA's performances under a strong ministry
considerably improved. Perhaps the most imnortant was that GHA gained a direct link to
Government at a time when funding was short. A further advantage was that GHA came
under the close control of ministers who insisted on accountability and performance, at a time
when there was much room for improvement at GHA.
54.   The major challenge for MRH and its agencies was the supply of sufficient
management staff, including candidates for training and field engineering. This constraint,
beyond their control, was and will continue to be a negative for the future.2Q/ The MRH
cannot solve the problem immediately, and a patient long term internal development program
is the only remedy._l/ The training programs under TRP-1 and TRP-2 are making a good
beginning. But the long time solution will come only when Government salary levels can be
raised above present levels. In future, as management of MRH and its agencies are
strengthened, more attention should be given to carefully assessing the requirements of
periodic maintenance, preparing specific design standards for future work, and strengthaning
quality contro' of works under execution. Local consultants have had a tendency to
underdesign. These technical matters are being corrected under the ongoing projects.
55.   As noted in para 20, BHC's performance improved as the Project progressed.
However, the PMU concluded that reliance placed on BHC may have been somewhat over
optimistic. Making BHC responsible for t.. 'dit evaluation of contractors and for procurement
of equipment, placed a heavy burden on that institution, especially as BHC had many
responsibilities in other sectors. The use of other Ghanian banks may be a viable option as
the economy expands. A longer term goal would be the consistent supply of equipment and
parts through the private sector. This is now being done since the Government has allowed a
free market in foreign exchange, thus contractors can convert cedis to foreign currency in
order to buy equipment and spare parts. W2/
.1/ Draft PCR by PMU, para 9.01.
19/ Draft PCR by PMU, para 9.01.
Z/ Draft PCR by PMU, para 9.04.
22/ Draft PCR by PMU, page iii of the Evaluation Summary.



14
1.    Project Relationships
56.   The relationships between IDA, and the Government and its agencies were close and
cordial as confirmed by the Borrower's Part II (paras 20 and 22) contribution. Frequent
meetings were held by the supervision missions with the Government, the MRH, and its
agencies to discuss problems, and the action necessary to resolve them. Action orientated
agreements reached among the parties were recorded in Aide Memoires and left by the
missions with the agencies for their attention.
K.    Consultant and Contractor Services
57.   The PMU consultant performed adequately in expediting procurement, training
contractors and in coordinating the Project among MRH and the agencies. The contract of
the PMU consultant was extended twice. Quarterly progress reports and periodic supervision
missions incurred close adherence to the planned goals.2/ However, the consultant fell
short in keeping track of expenditures with the result that near the end of the project funds
were somewhat over committed. The PMU has not yet been merged with the Monitoring and
Evaluation Department of the MRH as intended (para 14), but has been scaled down under
TRP-2.
58.   UNDP/ILO plaved a key role in supervising the highly successful feeder road
component, and WFP's food aid to staff and workers in the road sector significantly boosted
efficiency and productivity at a time when wage levels were almost below subsistence. AfDB
participated substantially in the project through its financing of the important Accra-Kumasi
Road. The Japanese Grant provided important inputs in equipment and spares to increase
GHA's maintenance capacity. Cooperation between IDA, Government and these co-funding
agencies was excellent.
59.   The Central Workshop consultant continued under the Project with the upgrading of
the shops which was initiated under earlier projects. The Central Workshop, including the
stores, are efficiently operated by expatriate line managers. However, the workshops did
suffer from departures of trained staff to the private sector as the economy improved. Given
the long term problems experienced at the workshops over the past decade, the eventual
return of control to GHA managers, and the reduction in GHA's force account work, the role
of the shop has been reduced to maintenance of equipment and support, and the MMUs more
complex work is turned over to the private sector. The workshop consultant was also
responsible for implementing the bridge component which was successfully comp!eted.
60.   A major benefit of.the- Project has been the continued development of the local
consulting industry and the encouragement of Ghanian engineers abroad to return home.
Local firms have been used increasingly by GHA on road design and supervision work.
However, they need further logistical help, particularly as regards vehicles for transport of
personnel, and testing equipment for quality control. Local firms should continue to make a
strong contribution, and thus enable GHA and DFR to place more reliance on domestic
consultants, while at the same time greatly cutting their consulting costs, particularly in
foreign exchange, by reducing their dependance on foreign firms.
23/ Draft PCR by PMU, para 6.10.



15
61.   Another major benefit of the project is the training of the domestic contracting
industry to rehabilitate and maintain the country's trunk and rural road systems.
Furthermore, equipment intensive contractors have been encouraged to improve and expand
their operations, particularly on the repair of bridges, regravelling and resealing works. This
has conserved foreign exchange and provided local employment and management
development, all of which will contribute to Ghana's ability to maintain its road systems in
future and to strengthen its economy. Through competitive bidding which was made
mandatory under the credit, the increased share for contracting and the availability of regular
payments through the Road Fund and the entire environment in which contractors worked
changed and became more business-like, thus helping the domestic industry to grow.
Similarly, the expansion of the domestic quarry industry was also a long term benefit to the
economy.
L.    Project Documentation
62.   According to the PMU, the SAR provided a well documented basis for the design and
implementation of the Project. It was constantly used as an overall strategic guideline for
allocating resources among the project components. The SAR was a key document in
clarifying project goals among the MRH and its agencies, BHC and PMU. The Project and
credit agreements were considered by the PMU to be generally well designed and provided
sufficient operational flexibility.24/
24/ Draft PCR by PMU, para 12.02 and 12.03.



16
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1601-OH)
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT A-1-OH
JAPANESE GRANT 1601-1-GH
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Introduction
1.    This section of the project completion report of the 4th Highway Project covers
Borrower's point of view. In this respect the agencies of Roads and Highways (namely
Ghana Highway Authority and Department of Feeder Roads) have represented the
Government of Ghana in making the presentation.
2.    The review starts with an evaluation of factual information contained in Part I of the
PCR then evaluates the Bank's and the Borrower's performance. This is followed by an
assessment of the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower during the preparation and
implementation of the project and finally discusses the performance of co-financiers.
B.    Adeguacy of Factual Information in Part III
3.    hiformation provided in Part III of PCR on Bank Loans and/or Credits, project
timetable, cisbursement, road contractors classified and those invited, the project results and
economic impact have been examined. The information is accurate and represent a true
picture of the project from start to completion.
C.    Comments on Analysis Contained in Part I of PCR
4.    Having devoted much effort to project preparation, both the Bank staff and staff of the
Borrower kept the objectives of the project in view and closely followed the project
description. Lessons learned were most helpful in preparing the Transport Rehabilitation
Project which overlapped the 4th Highway Project.
5.    On project design and organization, stra:egies developed during the Third Highway
Project were improved upon and followed with some innovations. The introduction of the
Project Management Unit (PMU) to coordinate the project, revival of structures for
competitive bidding and food incentive program and housing incentives were welcome
improvements. However, the statement that "the continuation of the food incentive program
under TRP-1 was not d: med necessary" is misleading. Since remuneration of GHA and
DFR staff had not improved much, the need for the incentive was vital. It was excluded from
TRP-1 mainly because arrangements were in progress with the World Food Programme to
continue independently.



17
6.    Inertia at the beginning of the project was overcome as the project progressed and
institutions and agencies became more familiar with their roles. This project formed the
transition between assigning road maintenance contracts to local contractors and the use of
competitive bidding. Only the structures of competitive bidding were being established and
full LCB did not take off until TRP-1 started in 1988. The ICB delay therefore holds true
only for the Anyinamr-Kumasi project since ICB for road maintenance works started only
under TRP-1. With training, delay was not only due to lack of facilities but with difficulty in
selecting appropriate training experts under the Technical Assistance for Training.
7.    Funding under this project flowed very smoothly. Timing of the four sources of
funding (IDA Credits 1601-GH, African Facility A-1-GH, Japanese Grant and the Ghana
Government) was perfect. As a result in 1989, we cleared our arrears of indebtedness to
local contractors on road maintenance works and payments for new certificates took less than
two weeks to make. The introduction of the revolving fund in London contributed to quick
disbursement. Unfortunately as the project progressed, funding shortfalls were realized and in
1990 we started realizing delays with payment.
8.    Generally the project could be referred to as successful. Achievements were close to
project objectives. Under the road rehabilitation and maintenance program, targets for
regravelling were easily met. Low output on paved roads could be related to the low
managerial and technical ability of local contractors. Thus the introduction of ICB under
TRP-1 to mainly execute works on paved roads.
9.    The quarry component of the project was not as successful as one would expect.
Most quarries seemed unable to take advantage of facilities provided and they continued to
run down. As a result the availability of road stone chipping, dropped drastically. Ancther
area which has been a problem, mostly to local contractors, was the high interest rate for on-
lending to local contractors and the slapping of the full foreign exchange risk on them. While
BHC was to pay an interest rate of 12%, the contractors were given the loans in foreign
exchange with a rate of about 25% and the full foreign exchange risk. The net result is an
interest rate of above 40%. This has had a detrimental effect on most of the local
contractors. 1/
10.   The Mobile Maintenance Unit continued to excel in its performance. Equipment
provided under the project made it possible to establish a second unit in the southern sector of
the country. With the great demand on their services, one may be tempted to spread them
thinly. However, the continued success hinges on resisting such a tendency.
D.    Bridge Development Program
11.   The objective of the Bridge Development Program was to remove bottlenecks in the
road network so as to ensure easy accessibility. These bottlenecks occurred at river crcssing
points as a result of collapsed or weak bridges. Under the program, three new bridges were
constructed and eleven were rehabilitated.
1/ Bank Note: Despite the onerous terms, it should be pointed out that the contract prices
were raised to take into account the rapid inflation through price escalation clauses, which had
an offsetting effect on their costs.



18
12.   Before the construction of the bridges, vehicles had to make long detours to reach
their destination. Some of the benefits of the program have been savings in travel time and
enhancement of economic activities in these areas.
13.   The setting up of the Bridge Maintenance Unit under the same program has improved
routine and periodic maintenance works on bridges.
14.   The projects under the program have been successful.
E.    Pilot Feeder Road Proeram
15.   The achievements under this component far exceeded the original targets that were
set. The use of contractors as opposed to in-house operation has earned the project a lot of
support both internally (PAMSCAD) and extemally (IDA, USAID, DANIDA). These
supports are largely responsible for the spread of the technology to the rest of the country.
So far, seven regions of the country now have their own crop of Labor-Intensive Contractors.
F.    Accra-Kumasi Road Rehabilitation
16.   The project was essentially for the asphaltic concrete overlay of the 136 km Anyinam-
Kumasi section of the Accra-Kumasi Trunk Road. The project was to improve road
communication between Accra, the capital, and Kumasi, the second largest city, and the areas
beyond. It was financed under an African Development Bank as a component of the Fourth
Highway Project. Before the project could be completed, failures were observed on
completed sections. This led the Government of Ghana to invite Messrs. Alexander Gibbs
and Partners of the U.K. to investigate the causes of the failure. Their report has been
submitted and the Government of Ghana is negotiating with the contractors to find a solution
to the problem.
G.    Contractor's Classification
17.   Competitive Bidding which was introduced under this project has rationalized the
award of contracts. Hitherto, contracts were not awarded on competitive basis. There was
therefore a prolification of contractors in the contracting industry. Now contractors are
classified into appropriate categories and financial classes. Only classified contractors can bid
for government projects.
H.    The Road Fund
18.   The Road Fund was set up to increase road user's contribution towards road
maintenance cost and to ensure uninterrupted flow of funds for road maintenance works. The
fund has achieved its objective. Regular monthly releases from the Road Fund to pay for
work done on road maintenance contracts has solved the problem of payment delays arising
from budget approval and release of budget allocation.
1.    PMU Coordinating Role
19.   The PMU's role in coordinating the project was most helpful, especially in
procurement and accounting. Their assistance to local contractors, especially in equipment
management and to the quarries did not measure up to expectation.



19
J.    The Bank's Performance
20.   Bank staff worked harmoniously with local staff in the preparation of the project.
Lessons learned in the execution of the Third Highway Project helped in meeting more
realistic projections, especially for road rehabilitation and maintenance works. The harmony
and good relationship continued throughout the project. Normally, approvals and "no
objections" were also received in reasonable time.
K.    The Borrower's Performance
21.   One could see a determined effort to abide by objectives and preconditions set for the
project. The Road Fund, for example, was established on time amid resistance from both
external and internal resources. Intensive resistance from the Contractors' Association was
overcome in reintroducing a systematic road contractors classification system. The quality of
performance of staff in both GHA and DFR improved steadily. Where funding was a
problem, it could be related to an overall difficulty in the economy, for the Government's
commitment to improving the riding quality of roads seemed paramount.
L.    Relationship Between the Bank and the Borrower
22.   The warm relationship between the Bank and the Ghana Government at the beginning
of the project continued to improve. It was obvious throughout the project that both parties
sought after and strived for success. Where errors were made, they were brought up openly
for discussion with the view of making improvements. The meeting at Akuse was one such
effort to improve our relationships and performance.
M.   Performance of Co-Financiers
23.   This is one project where co-financing seemed perfect. After signing the IDA
agreement in June 1985 (1601-GH), the African Facility Credit Agreement (A-l-GH)
followed in October 1985 and the Japanese Grant Agreement in January 1987. The success
may be due to the fact that co-financing was channelled through IDA, making it easy to
manage.
N.    Conclusion
24.   In spite of one of two difficulties, the project could be described as a good project.
Achievements were quite close to objectives and lessons learned were most beneficial in
preparing subsequent projects.



20
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1601-GH)
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT A-1-GH
JAPANESE GRANT 1601-1-GH
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans and Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Tite           Purpose         Approval         Status
Engineering Credit S-7-GH   Preparation of road   1969    Completed
projects
Credit 438-GH            Maintenance and          1974    Completed in 1981
First Highway Project    rehabilitation
Credit 594-GH and        Maintenance,             1975    Completed in 1983
Loan 1182-GH, Second     rehabilitation and
Highway Project          construction
Credit 1029-OH           Emergency road           1980    Completed in 1986
Third Highway Project    maintenance works
including provision of
spare parts, equipment
and technical assistance
for GHA and domestic
contractors.



21
B. Project Timetables
Date             Date             Date
Planned 1         Revised          Actual '
Identification                                     .              06/80
Preparation Mission                                             12/80-05/84
Pre-Appraisal Mission                             .               02/84
Appraisal Mission             9-10/84               L             09/84
Credit Negotiations             2/85                           04/18-25/85
Board Approval                  5/85                             06/04/85
Credit Signature                                                 06/24/85
Credit Effectiveness                                             11/01/85
Credit Closing               6/30/90 2'                          06/30/91
;Projec Completion             12/31/89 2                          12/31/90
I/ Source: Project Brief dated August 6, 1984; an earlier brief was dated August, 1982.
Z/ Source: Correspondence files.
3/ Source: Development Credit Agreement
Note: On September 11, 1990, the Association extended the closing dates of both the Africa
Facility Credit from December 31, 1990, and the Japanese Grant from September 30, 1990,
to June 30, 1991 to coincide with IDA Credit closing date.



22
C. Credit 2ata
(i) Credit Disbursements
Bank                           Disbursements (in USS million)
Fiscal Year                             Credit 1601-GH
and
Qwuutrs               Estimated           Actual           Actual as % of
Cumulative a/      Cumulative _/         Estimated
1986        1                          0                  0
2                          1.5                2.9                19.3
3                          3.5                2.9                82
4                          4.5                3.6                80
1987        1                          6.3                4.6                73
2                          9.6                6.1                64
3                         12.9               12.3                95
4                         16.2                14.8               91
1988        1                         19.0               20.7               109
2                         21.8               22.1                101
3                         24.6               23.0                93
4                         27.4               28.2               103
1989        1                         29.4               33.7               115
2                         31.4               38.1               121
3                         33.4               39.9               119
4                         35.4               41.4               117
1990        1                         36.4               42.4               116
2                         37.4               43.0               115
3                         38.4                45.0              117
4                         40.0               46.0                115
1991        1                                            46.3                116
2                          -                 46.9               117
3                          _                 47.8                119
4                          -                 50.2               125
199         1                                             51.5              129
2                                             51.9
L! Source: SAR, page 91.
h/ Source: Statements of Credits
Note: Differential betwee actual and estimated disbursements attributed to currency variations between US
dollr, and SDR& in which the credit was denominated.



23
(ii) Allocation of Credit 1601-GH Proceeds
(in SDRs)
Original           Revised             Actual
Category                 Allocation [/      Allocation 2/    Disbursements 3/
(1) Part A of the Project (OHA)
(a) Equipment                         6,050,000          6,050,000          2,989,165
(b) Civil Works
(i) by force account               2,220,000            500,000            160,574
(ii) by contracts
(A) bridge rehabilitation        5,040,000          6,760,000          4,153,607
(B) other                        5,040,000          5,040,000          7,512,391
(c) Consultants' services, training   4,840,000          4,840,000          8,493,937
and studies
(d) reinsurance                         100,000            100,000             65,014
(2) Part B of the Project (MRH, DFR)
(a) Equipment                         1,310,000          1,310,000          3,384,183
(b) Civil works
(i) by force account                 310,000            310,000            771,713
(ii) by contract                    2,020.000          2,020,000            841,619
(c) Consultants, tuining and          1,920,000          1,920,000          4,200,333
studies
(d) reinsurance                         100,000            100,000              7,029
(3) Part C of the Project (BHC)
(a) Equipment                         5,240,000          5,240,000          5,133,161
(b) Office equipment and rsults         510,000            510,000            631,840
(c) Consultants' services and           510,000            510,000            519,068
training
(d) reinsuranec                         100,000                                71,204
(4) Refunding of PPI                    1,020,000          1,020,000            887,366
(5) Unallocated                         4,070,000          4,070,000         395,385!1/
TOTAL                          40,400,000          40,400,00          40,217,589
1/ Source: Development Credit Agreement dated June 24, 1985, Schedule 1.
V Source: Amendments per letter of March 6, 1987.
3/ Source: Disbursement records.
_I Special Account.
Note: SDR 182,410.53 canceled as of January 24, 1992.
(ii) AUocation of Credit A-1-GH
Orginal              Revised              Actual
Category               Alocation I/          Allocation        Disbursements /
Part 1, equipment                    5,050,000                                6,615,713
Part 2, equipment                    5,050,000                                3,215,187
Speci Account                                                                   269,100
TOTAL                       10,100,000                                10,100,000
J/ Source: African Facility Credit dated October 23, 1985, Schedule 1.
Z/ Source: Disbursement records.



24
D. Proiect-Cgsts
US $ Million
AppRraisal 1V              Actul 
Locad  EQrign  lQal    Local   Ein   Total
i) Rehabilitation of the  33.1    47.2    80.3    40.0    57.0    97.0
Road Network
ii) Bridge Rehabilitation  >.7     5.7      9.4     4.0      6.1    10.1
Program
iii) Pilot Feeder Roads    3.1      4.9     8.0      3.1      4.9     8.0
Program
iv) Rehabilitation of     6.9    16.2    23.1       4.9    11.6    16.5
Accra-Kumasi Road
v) Repayment of PPF       0.0      1.0     1.0     QQ J1L2
Advance
TOTAL                     46.8    75.0   121.8    52.0    80.5   132.5
IL Source: SAR, Annex 3-8.
I/ Source: PMU.



25
E. Project Results
(i) Accomplishment
S.A.R.                P.C.R.
Indicators                    Estimate               Estimate
A. GHA Periodic Maintenance                2,880 km              2,885 km
B. GHA Routine Maintenance                53,500 km              43,160 km
C. Technical Assistance                    567 mm                 560 mm
D. Equipment, Spares                  (US$) 29.4 million     (UJS$) 26.4 million
E. Bridge Rehabilitation                    14 No.                14 No.
F. Pilot Feeder Roads - Rehabilitation     240 km                 150 km
Spot Improvements                       700 km                 700 km
G. Rehabilitation Accra-Kumasi Road         105 km               Completed
mm - man months
(ii) Economic Impac
Appraisal             Actual at Final
Estimate            Development (Est.)
Project Component             Economic Rate            Economic Rate
of Return (ERR)%        of Return (ERR) %
1. Trunk Road Network                     73                       67
Maintenance Program (Periodic
plus routine; including assistance
to GHA and Contractors)
2. Bridge Rehabilitation                  75                       88
3. Rehabilitation of Accra-               26                       30
Kumasi Road Sections
Source: PCR prepared by PMU lated June, 1991, Tables A and B; GHA's "Economic
Evaluation of Selected Roads' (February 1992), and review note by S.R. Lukehart
(Ghana RRMP PCR: Reevaluation of Project ERRs), March 1992.



26
F. Use of Bank Resources
(i) Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weekl
Stage of Project Cycle        Planned          Revised          Final
Through Appraisal                                                        82.3
Appraisal through Board Approval                                         91.3
Supervision                                                             123.4
Other                                                                    14.0
TOTAL                                                                   311.0
Source: CAM.



27
F. Use of Bank Resources (continued)
(ii) Mission Data
Stage                     No.        Days                         Perfonnance      Dates
of          Month/        of         in         Specialization     Rating          of
Project Cycle     Year      Persons      Field      Represented a/      Stktus        Reports
Identification       06180           2           4  HE, EC            _               07/30/80
Preparazion I        10/80           3           4  2 HE, EC                          12115/80
Prepartion 1         03/81           4           3  2 HE, ec, IS                      05/21/81,
._______ ________                OS_____ _  ____ _________05/28/81
Prepaation m         06181            1          2  HE                                07/27/81
Prepartion IV        07/81            1          3  EC                                09/Ci/81
Prepartion V         12/81            1          3  HE                                01/29/82
Prepartion VI        01/83           2           2  HE, EC                            02/18/83
Prepartion Vll       04/83            1          4  HE                                05/03/83
Prepartion VmI       08/83           2           3  HE, EC                   -        09/27/83
Prpaaion IX          11/83           2           2  HE, eC                   -        11/23/83,
.________   __________  ______________02/03/84
Preappraisal         02/84           4           6  HE, EC, FA, ME           -        05/14/84
opetional            07/84            1          2  DDC                      -        08/20/84
Apprisal (a)         09/84           6          20  HE, eC, FA, ME,          -        12/26/84 b/
TS, SOO
Apprisal             10/84           3           5  DDC, HE, EC              -         10/29/84
Supervision 1        06/85            1         na  HE                       -        07/02/85
Supervsion 2         10185           3           7  2 HE, ME            1,2,1,2        11/27/85
Supervision 3        01/86            1         11  SOO                 2,2,2,2       04/19/86
Supevision 4         02/86            1          3  FA                                04/28/86
Superision S         05/86            4          9  HE, eC, ME, C       2,2,2,2       06/20/86
Supevision 6         11/86            1          7  ME                                 112/2/86
Superision 7         01/87            1          5  HE, CIS             3,2,2,2       03/10/87,
03/20/87
Superision 8         03/87            1          3  PA                                04/10/87
Supervision 9        03/88           3          10  DDC, HE, EC, TS   3,2,2,2         04/30/87
Supervision 10       01/88            1          6  HE                  3,2,2,2        03/15/88



28
Stage                      No.        Days                          Perfornnanc|   Dates
of           Month/       of           n         Specialization      Ratii.g          of
Project Cycle      Year      Persons      Field      Represented I/       Status        Repors
Supervision 11       10/88            2            5  HE, EC              2,2,2.2        V201/88
Supervision 12       10188             1          4  C                                   01/03/89
Supervision 13       02/89             1          4  TS                                  03/06189
Supervision 14       03/89            3           7  2 HE, eC            2,2,1,2         05/26/89
Supervision 15       10/89            3           na  HE, EC, ME          1,1,1,1        12/28/89
Supervision 16       04/90            3           14  HE, EC, TRS         2,1,1,2,2      07/10/90
Supervision 17       10/90            3           7  HE, EC, TRS         2,1,2,2,2       01/02/91
Superviion 18        01/91            2           3  HE, TRS              2,1,2,2,2      03125/91
Supervision 19       04191             1          3  EC                   2,1,2,2,2      06/22/91
Superision 20        06/91             3          7   HE, EC, TRS         1,1,1,2,2      07/17/91
E/ C = Consultant
CIS = Construction Lndustry Specialist
eC - Economist
FA - Financial Analyst
HE   Highway engineer
IS = Indu l Specialist
ME = Mechanical Engineer
PA = Procurement Advisor
SOO = Senior Operations Officer
TRS   Transport Speciast
TS = Training Specialist
h/ Combined Issues Paper and Decison Memorandum.



29
G. Comvance with Credit Covenants
Section                   Desoription of Covenant                  Status
Deveoymen Crdit Aereemet
Secdon 3.01 (a)             Coordinate all pal of the Project through    met
PMU, and provide adequate funding
Section 3.01 (b)            Cause GHA and BHC to perform in        substantially met
________________   accordance with the Project Ageemnents
Sectdon 3.01 (c)            Rolend funds to BHC under a subsidiary  met
loan agreement
Section 3.02                Follow IDA procurement guidelines      met
Section 3.04                Established the PMU                    met
Section 3.05                After Januay 1, 1988 oontract new road  met
rhabilition and periodic maintenanee
work on the basis of LCB
Section 3.06                Submit work progrm and estimate of     met
expenditure for each quarter
Secdon 3.07                 DFR to carry out the Pilot Feeder Road  met
Progrm as defined
Section 3.08                Take out and maintain insurance or spare    met
puts
Section 3.09                Make available funds for carrying out the    met
project
Secdon 4.01 (a)             Maintin separate accounts for each agency   met
Secdon 4.01 (b)             Provide PMU with summary accounts      met
Section 4.01 (c)            Have the accounts audited              met
Secdon 4.02                 Reorganize MRH and its agencies        met
Section 4.03                Adjust contacts and raes                met
Secton 4.04                 Carry out BHC Action Program            met
Section 4.05                Review with IDA, its annual invesament  met
___ ___ __ ___ __ ____  prognm
Section 4.06                Establsh road user tazet, establish a Road   met
User Fund, and study road user charges
Proiect Acreement with GHA
Section 3.01                Carry out its operations in accordance with   met
sound prctices 
Sadon 3.02                  Opeate and maintain its equipment       met in pant only
Section 3.03                Take out insurance for spare parts      met



30
Section                      Description of Covenant                       Status
Section 3.04                   Carry out an action program for the         met
reorganization of its equipment
l ________________________ _    management
Secdon 4.01                    Carry out audits of its accounts            met
Section 4.02                   Start a personnel action management         met
l _____________             _ l   l program
Project Agreement with BHC
Section 3.01                   Carry out its operations in accordance with   eventuaUy met
l ______________________        sound  practices
Section 3.02                   Maintain its equipmeut                      met
Section 3.03                   Take out insuranee for spare pa     L       met
Section 3.04                    Carry out an action program                met
Section 4.01                    Carry out audits of its accounts           met
Section 4.02                    Carry out a personnel action program       met



