D~~ -A$             -  -~..              ;                -    : -
-   -              Documentof                    - -       - .- - -
:-        -:The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
cM/Co-4H
Report No. 5479-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
May 14, 1985
West Africa Projects Department
Transportation I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World. Bank authorization.



X B L  d V -f .. A S     - r- .  *..iv i.  '.*, <  .|      -= <.  . . -- 
CURRENCY QUALNS-
Currency Unit.- Cedis ¢
- -  US$ 1.0 -53 Cedis
1.0 Cedi  US$0.019.
1 US$ - SDR 1.0088
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF IWEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 meter ({)     2             3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (s.)     =    10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (i )      =    35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)     2 -    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) =    0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (t)        =    2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB     - African Development Bank
BIIC     - Bank for Housing and Construction
BSL      - Black Star Line
CMW      - Central Mechanical Workshop (of GHA)
DFR      - Department of Feeder Roads
DUR      - Department of Urban Roads
ERR      - Economic Rate of Return
GCHC     - Ghana Cargo Handling Company
GE       - Ghana Airways
GH&      - Ghana Highway Authority
GPA      - Ghana Ports Authority
GRC      - Ghana Railway Corporation
NKU       - Mobile Maintenance Unit
MOF       - Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
MOTC      - Ministry of Transport and Communications
MRL       - Ministry of Roads and Highways
MTPU      - Mechanical Training Production Unit
PMN      - Project Management Unit
PP       - Plant Pool
PPF      - Project Preparation Facility
RTPU      - Road Training Production Unit
SCC      - State Construction Corporation
SMC      - Single-Man Contractor
SOE      - Statement of Expenditure
STC      - State Transport Corporation
TLC      - Takoradi Lighterage Company
UNDP     - United Nations Development Program
VLTC     - Volta Lake Transport Company
VOC      - Vehicle Operating Costs
vpd      - Vehicles per day
WFP      - World Food Program



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
GHANA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE        .......................           i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ....................................  ii
I. INTRODUCTION .............................................    1
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .............     ........................   1
The Transport System .............     ........................   1
The Road Transport Subsector .......       ......................   3
Transport Sector Issues ..........      ........................   9
IDA Involvement in the Transport Sector ..................  11
II*. THE PROJECT ..............................................   12
Project Objectives . ......................................  12
Project Description . ......................................  12
Project Cost Estimates and Financing .....        ................  18
Implementation ...........................................  19
Procurement ..............................................   20
Disbursements ............................................  21
Accounting and Auditing ..........      ........................  23
Reporting ................................................  23
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .............. ........................  24
Nature of Project Benefits ........      .......................  24
Economic Returns and Sensitivity ......       ...................  24
Project Risks .............................................  25
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....       ..............  26
The project and this report were prepared on the basis of an appraisal
mission in September 1984 by Messrs. Harold Young (Mission Leader,
Senior Highway Engineer), Thampil Pankaj (Senior Economist), Mohammed
Rasheed (Senior Financial Analyst), Giuseppe Morra (Senior Training
Specialist), Roger LeBussy (Transport Engineer), and Elie Saleeby
(Operations Officer). Messrs. Peter Morris (Deputy Division7Chief), Sven
Rertel (Consultant) and John Riverson (Consultant) appraised the feeder
road component during a follow-up mission. Miss Carolina Machado
(Operations Assistant) provided computing assistance for the report.
Secretarial work was done by Ms. Susan Sing and Ms. Tracy McMahon.
This documet ha a rseddibutonmand my be ud by cipents on in thepeformance o
thir ofiw duts Its ontents may not oherwi be didosed without World Bank authoiatn.



ANNEXES
2-1   Current Status of.the Ongoing Ghana Railway Rehabilitation
Project, and Railvay Traffic, 1972-83.
2-2   Cargo Throughput in Ghana's Ports, 1970-83
2-3  VLTC Traffic on Volta Lake
2-4   Road Netvork (1984)
2-5   Fuel Consumption 1970-83
2-6   Vehicle Fleet 1979-83
2-7   Organisation Chart of M1E
2-8   Road Conditions With and Without the Project, 1985-89:  Chart
2-9   Road Conditions With and Without the Project, 1985-89: Table
2-10 Periodic Maintenance of Trunk Roads; Performance during 1981-84,
Compared to Estimated Needs
2-11 Government Budget for Road Subsector, 1984
2-12 BEC Action Program
2-13 Transport Sector Capital Budget for 1985
3-1   Maintenance of Trunk Road Network; Estimated Need and Expected
Annual Programs
3-2   Contractors' Equipment Needs
3-3   Training Program
3-4   Food Incentive Program
3-5   Project Management Unit (PMU) - Terms of Reference
3-6   Bridge Rehabilitation Program
3-7   Pilot Feeder Roads Program
3-S   Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
3->   Implementation Schedule
3-10  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3-11 Accounting, Budgeting, Costing and Auditing
4    Economic Analysis
MN: IBRD 18727
WAPTI
May 1985



-i ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ - l-
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Reference                                                        WAIC
Number                       Document Title                   Code No.
1      Fourth Highway Programme; Preconstruction Studies
by Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick and Partners:
Draft Supplementary Report, August 1984        127.389(F)
Draft Final Report, May 1982                   127.389(H)
Vehicle Operating Costs, November 1981         127.389(B)
Pavement Condition Survey Report, 1981         127.389(E)
Addendum to the Draft Supplementary Report,
October 1984                                127.389(G)
2      Ghana Road and Bridge Maintenance Programme;
Economic Evaluations by Tahal Consulting Engineers:
Road Maintenance Budget Proposals for the
Years 1985 to 1990, Appendix No 1,
Economic Evaluation, July 1984             221.171(B)
Feasibility Study of First Priority Bridges,
August 1984                                 126.284(T)
Feasibility Study of First Priority Bridges,
May 1983                                    126.284(Q)
Additional Comments regarding Economic    Corr. vol.VII
Evaluations                           Hwys 4; 10/29/84
3      Ghana - Feeder Road Study (1984), John Hine         221.406(A)
4      DFR, Proposal Submitted to the World Bank for
Financial Assistance                                220.518
5      Manpower Survey Report, November 1984 by Tahal
Consulting Engineer Ltd.                            221.772
6      Status Report on Feeder Roads, by DFR, 1984         221.857(6)
7      Ghana: Feeder Roads Improvement and Maintenance
by Contract and Community Labour, by ILO,
January 1985                                        221.406(D)
8      Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program,
Pilot Feeder Roads Project, (Final Proposal)
by DFR, March 1985.                                 221.857(8)
9      Letter of Commitment and Copy of Draft Agreement
from Bank of Ghana for Special Assistance Facility
(¢ 500 million subordinated loan) to BEC.          221.857(9)



:-~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ji    -  
WAIC
Code No.
10     Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
Project Cost Estimates, Yearly Distribution       221.857(10)
11     Working Papers                                     221.857(11)
1. BRC Operations
2. Program for Strengthening Transport Planning
3. Equipment Management - Outline of Reorganisation
4. Terms of Reference for Training Program
5. Terms of Reference for Feeder Roads Program
6. Rehabilitation of the Anyinam-Kumasi Road
WAPT1
May 1985



-~~~~~~~~~~~                       ii  -
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       The Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRX), Ghana Highway
Authority (GHA), Bank for Housing and Construction
(BHC), and domestic contractors through subloans from
BHC.
Credit Amount:  SDR 40.4 million (US$40.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Relending       US$5 million of the proceeds of the Credit would be
Terms:          relent to BBC at 12 percent per annum for 12 years
including 3 years of grace.
Project         The project would support the following components:  (i)
Description:    a three year (1986-88) rehabilitation and maintenance
program for Ghana's trunk road network, (ii) a bridge
repair and maintenance program, (iii) a three year pilot
feeder road program, and (iv) rehabilitation of about
105 km of the Accra - Kumasi highway. The project would
provide funding for new equipment and spare parts, civil
works, fuel, technical assistance, and training at all
levels.
Project         The main benefit from the proposed project would be
Benefits and    improvement in the physical condition of Ghana's road
Risks:          network, which would help remove, at least partially,
one of the most serious infrastructure constraints
hindering Ghana's economic recovery. By arresting
further deterioration and improving maintenance, the
project would help avoid substantial future .apital
expenditures for road reconstruction, and would generate
sizeable and immediate savings in vehicle operating
costs. At least 80 percent of these savings would be in
reduced use of foreign inputs, such as tires, spare
parts, fuel, and from the extended life of vehicles
themselves. The considerable benefits from the project
will be ultimately passed on to the transport user as
reduced transport costs, through the competitive
transport market prevailing in Ghana. The main project
risks would be slow project implementation as has been
the case with the ongoing Third Highway Project. The
proposed project incorporates measures designed to avoid
the problems faced by the preceding project. Moreover,
economic environment in the country is improving, which
should support the successful implementation of the
project.



-iv-
Estimated Cost
Local       Foreign       Total
(US$ Thousand)
1. Rehabilitation and Maintenanace
of Trunk Roads:
(a) Rehabilitation/Haintenance
(works, equipment & materials
to GHA and local contractors) 25,207         24,222      49,429
(b) Technical Assistance Program      613         3,710       4.323
(c) Training Program                  534         2,075       2,609
(d) Incentive Program               1,102         9,642      10,744
(e) Project Management                200         1,400       1,600
2. Bridge Rehabilitation
Program                             2,819         4,344        7,163
.3. Pilot Feeder Roads Program           2,646        4,125   ,  6,771,
4. Rehabilitation of Accra-Kumasi
Road (Anyinam-Kumasi Section)       5,118        11,998       17,116
5. Repayment of PPF Advance              -           1,000        1,000
Total Base Cost                    38,239        62,516     100,755
Physical Contingencies                966         2,148        3,114
Price Contingencies                 7,675        10,309       17,984
Total Project Cost (with Taxes)a/ 46,880         74,973     121,853
Financing Plan
IDA                                 4,070        35,930      40,000
African Development Fund            1,940        16,200       18,140
Japanese Government                  -            2,000       2,000
World Food Program                   --           8,100       8,100
UNDP                                 --           1,360        1,360
Government                         40,870  a/   11,383       52,253
Total                              46,880        74,973     121,853
a/ Includes taxes of about US$17 million equivalent which Government will
absorb.



Estimated Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year
1986      1987      1988       1989      1990
(US1$ MilliF         -          -
Annual          4.5       11.7      11.2       8.0        4.6
Cumulative      4.5       16.2      27.4      35.4       40.0
Economic Rate of Return
The overall internal economic rate of return (ERR) for the
total project, based on quantifiable benefits, is about 53 percent.
Sensitivity analysis vith an increase of 25 percent in project costs
together with a 25 percent reduction in project benefits show an ERR
of about 28 percent.
Map: IBRD 18727
WAPT1
Xay 1985



GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government  of Ghana has  requested  IDA assistance  in
financing its three year (1986-88) road rehabilitation and maintenance
program.   Rehabilitation of the severely deteriorated road network,
which carries about 90Z of the country's goods and passenger traffic, is
of highest priority for Ghana's economic recovery. The proposed project
would rehabilitate some of the key roads, improve the efficiency and
coverage of periodic and routine maintenance of the network, initiate a
pilot program of labor intensive feeder road maintenance, and strengthen
road transport institutions, including support for the domestic
construction industry.   It would also encourage Government policies
aimed at improving overall investment planning in the transport sector
and at raising road user charges to adequately fund future road
maintenance operations.
1.02      The project will reinforce IDA's ongoing assistance to the
Government's economic recovery efforts by (a) helping to remove, at
least partially, one of the most serious infrastructure constraints
facing the Ghanaian economy; (b) expanding and improving the sub-sector
institution building goals; and (c) focussing the attention and financ-
ing of the donor community towards these worthwhile goals.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
2.01      Ghana has a relatively well developed transport system com-
prising:  (a) a network of about 14,100 km of trunk and urban arterial
roads, and about an equal length of feeder roads; (b) a railway system
of 947 km of main and branch lines linking the country's three major
cities (Accra, Kumasi and Takoradi) in the southern half of the country;
(c) two major deep-water ports at Tema and Takoradi and several fishing
ports; (d) a small inland water transport system on the Volta Lake; (e)
a national maritime shipping company, the Black Star Line (BSL); and (f)
one international airport at Accra and three main domestic airports, and
a national airline, Ghana Airways (GE), providing international,
regional and domestic air transport services.
2.02      The present capacity of virtually all transport modes in Ghana
is inadequate to meet even the current reduced level of demand, due to
lack of regular maintenance and upkeep for several years. Ghana's



- 2:-
transport system has nearly broken down over the past few years and
remains a serious constraint to economic recovery. The Government's
transport strategy emphasizes maintenance and rehabilitation rather than
creation of new capacity. About 85X of road transport, which is the
dominant part of the transport system, is operated by the private
sector.  The public sector, on the other hand, controls ports, lake
transport, railways and domestic civil aviation. Though state interven-
tion was a major feature of policy in the past, the present Government
has clearly announced itself in favor of encouraging the private sector,
reorganizing public sector organizations on more efficient lines, and
privatizing some of them if justified.
2.03      Administration of the transport sector is the main responsi-
bility of two Ministries: (i) the Ministry of Transport and Communica-
tions (MOTC) which is responsible for the formulation and monitoring of
policies and programs of public and private sector organizations and for
overseeing the work of the public sector agencies in ports, shipping,
railways and air transport; and (ii) the Ministry of Roads and Highways
(MRH) which deals with the planning, construction and maintenance of
highways, urban roads and feeder roads through the Ghana Highway Author-
ity (GHA), the Department of Urban Roads (DUR) and the Department of
Feeder Roads (DFR), respectively. In addition, the Ministry of Fuel and
Power oversees the Volta Lake Transport Company, while the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning deals with the allocation of investment
resources to the transport sector.
2.04      Road transport is described in paras 2.09 to 2.22, below.
2.05      Ghana's railway system, operated by the Government-owned Ghana
Railway Corporation (GRC), has played a major role in carrying four of
Ghana's most important export products to the ports: bauxite, manganese
and timber to Takoradi and cocoa to both Takoradi and Tema. Those four
commodities constituted over 90% of total rail traffic which amounted to
about 1.6 million tons per year in the early seventies. In addition, it
transported close to 8 million passengers per year in 1972-74. However,
in 1983, traffic was down to 356,000 tons and 3.3 million people. This
decline was due to the overall slump in economic activity, increased
competitiveness  of  the  road   transport   industry,   and   steadily
deteriorating efficiency of the railway system. The ongoing Railway
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1170-GH) supports the reorganization and
physical rehabilitation of the system. Para 2.30 summarizes the status
of the Railway Project while Annex 2-1 shows the 1972-83 railway traffic
statistics and describes the ongoing project in more detail.
2.06      Ghana's two major ports at Tema and Takoradi were built with
ample capacity but their present effective capacity is extremely
limited. Port operations have become increasingly inefficient in recent
years due to the lack of handling equipment in working condition.
general deterioration of installations, lack of maintenance and dredging
for many years, and inefficient organization of the port agencies. This
has resulted in extremely low loading and unloading rates, excessive
ship time at berth, and high demurrage and freight charges. Total port
cargo throughout was about 5.5 million tons in 1970 compared to 2.5



- 3 -
million tons in 1983. Port infrastructure and installations are owned
and operated by the Ghana Ports Authority (GPA) and port handling is
done by two public companies, Ghana Cargo Handling Company (GCHC) and
the Takoradi Lighterage Company (TMC); about 25% of stevedoring services
are provided by two private companies. The port sub-sector is currently
receiving emergency assistance from IDA for spare parts and equipment,
technical assistance and studies for the reorganization of port sector
management (para 2.30).  It is expected that a medium-term rehabilita-
tion plan for the ports will be finalized by mid-1985, which will be the
basis for an IDA-supported ports rehabilitation project. This project
will address all port sub-sectoral issues.  Annex 2-2 presents port
traffic, 1970-83.
2.07      Lake Transport.  Transport on the Volta lake is operated by
the Volta Lake Transport Company Ltd. (VLTC), whose sole shareholder is
the Volta River Authority. The lake transport facilities are currently
being expanded with the help of a bilateral credit from the Federal
Republic of Germany. VLTC carried about 12,000 tons of goods and 53,000
passengers in 1983 (Annex 2-3).
2.08      Concerning Civil Aviation, Ghana has one international airport
at Accra and domestic airports in Kumasi, Sunyani, and Tamale, main-
tained and operated by MOTC's Department of Civil Aviation. Available
infrastructure appears to be sufficient for present low traffic volumes.
Annual traffic at the Accra airport in 1980-82 averaged 2,205 aircraft
movements,  114,000 passengers, and 2,220 tons of freight.  Accra is
served by a number of major international carriers and by Ghana Airways
Corporation (GH), the country's national airline, establishbAd in 1958.
GH, which owns a small fleet of four aircraft, operates flights to
Europe and the West African coast and proviaes domestic services. The
company has been financially troubled for many years. Government has
indicated that CH is now working as a commercial entity, and no subsidy
was given to it during 1983 and 1984.  Government view is that GH's
problems, which are partly a reflection of Ghana's economic problems
which curtailed international travel, would ease in the near future. In
the meantime, a technical assistance and training program financed by
UNDP is gradually improving GH's operational efficiency and punctuality,
and, as a result, its traffic volume.
B. The Road Transport Subsector (See Map)
2.09      Ghana's road network comprises about 28,300 km of classified
roads, of which about 6,000 km are paved, and the remainder are gravel
or earth surfaced.   The road system is further classified as about
14,130 km of trunk roads (including 3,780 km of primary roads, 9,580 km
of secondary roads, and 770 km of town roads) and about 14,160 km of
feeder roads. Additionally, there are 6,000 km of village tracks and
private mining and timber company roads. About 70% of trunk roads and
80% of feeder roads are located in the southern half of the country
where population and economic activities are concentrated.  Annex 2-4
shows details of the road network.



-4-
2.10      Traffic volumes are heaviest near the Accra-Tema area (the
country's capital and main port).  Traffic on the major arterial roads
radiating from Accra is about 3,000 vehicles per day (vpd) near the
city, and about 1,500-2,000 vpd towards Takoradi and Kumasi. Most other
trunk roads carry between 200-750 vpd, while traffic volumes in the
northern half of the country are much lower than in the south. Feeder
roads have generally from 10 to 100 vpd. In general, traffic volumes
have declined recently due to the fall in production levels and the poor
condition of roads and shortage of vehicles. Fuel consumption data show
an almost steady growth of 3X per annum on avetage from 1970 to 1981,
and a 40Z decline from 1981 to 1983. With the expected availability of
larger fuel imports, vehicle spare parts and an upturn in economic
activity, traffic levels should rise again in the near future. Annex 2-5
shows fuel consumption, 1970-83.
2.11      The road  transport  industry  is made up  of  three major
state-owned companies, one large and some 170 medium-size and small
private trucking companies (owning 4-5 vehicles on average), numerous
individual truck owners/operators, and a large number of private bus and
other passenger transport operators. Of the three state companies, the
State Traiisport Corporation (STC) provides trucking services for public
sector goods and scheduled inter-city passenger bus services while the
Omnibus  Services Authority and City Express Services, two similar
companies which are likely to be merged in the near future, provide
public passenger transport services in maJor cities and surrounding
rural areas. Though these public sector companies do not receive
Government subsidies, Government is currently studying the possibility
of reorganizing them in a more efficient manner. Entry in the transport
market is free. Any Ghanaian owning a roadworthy vehicle and valid
insurance coverage can operate goods or passenger transport services
along any route he chooses without Government licensing. Private and
state companies compete for available demand although the public sector
agencies have to call on STC first before approaching the private
sector. Transport tariffs are set by MOTC, based on a fairly thorough
analysis of vehicle operating costs and take into account, to some
extent, the higher black market prices to be paid by private sector
vehicles operators for purchasing various inputs. Official rates, which
are adjusted frequently in line with changes in price levels, are
strictly applied by the state companies while private companies fre-
quently charge more; actual rates in rural areas are reported to be
often 4-6 times higher.
2.12      The fleet of privately owned roadworthy vehicles has decreased
by about 6% between 1979 and 1983 and now stands at about 74,000 units.
The average age of the fleet is estimated at well over 10-15 years as
there have been only minimal imports of new vehicles over the recent
past. The percentage of vehicles actually on the road was estimated as
low as 30Z of the fleet in mid-1983 due to lack of tires and spare
parts, but may be about 60% in early 1985 largely due to the assistance
of IDA and other codonors in financing imports of-tires and spare parts.
(Annex 2-6).



-5-
2.13      Concerning road administration, public roads come under the
jurisdiction of The Ministry of Roads and Highways, (MRH), which oper-
ates essentially through two agencies, the Ghana Highway Authority (GHA)
for trunk roads, and the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) for feeder
roads. In 1983, a third agency, the Department of Urban Roads (DUER,
was set up under MRH to look after urban roads, but its role and func-
tions are yet to be properly established; meanwhile, urban roads are
presently under the technical control of GHA. The organization of MRH,
with its present structure (GHA, DFR, DUR and their parallel regional
units) is inefficient and needs restructuring. The Government, with its
assistance from UNDP, appointed consultants in December 1984 to study
the reorganization of the various agencies under the Ministry CHRI).
The consultants' recommendations were reviewed during negotiations and
an action program for suitable reorganization of the Ministry by
December 31, 1985. was agreed during negotiations between Government and
the Association (Annex 2-7).
2.14      GHA was established in 1974 as an autonomous body with its own
Board of Directors appointed by the Government; recently, the board was
replaced by an interim Management  Committee.   It has a staff and
vorkforce of about 8,400, spread over one central office in Accra, 10
regional offices and 32 main district offices.  It carries out the
majority of routine maintenance and part of periodic maintenance of
trunk roads through its own work force; all other periodic maintenance
and construction/reconstruction works are done through contractors,
administered by GHA. During 1984, approximately 5% of routine mainte-
nance, 75% of periodic maintenance and 100% of construction/reconstruc-
tion works were done by contractoLs, and the rest by GHA work force. In
terms of overall costs, contractors executed about 80% of the works and
GHA about 20Z. DFR has a staff and work force of nearly 2,000, and
functions as a Government department without much autonomy. It deals
with feeder road planning, construction, and maintenance, through its
central, regional and district offices. Feeder road construction and
maintenance (other than routine maintenance) are being done almost
entirely through contractors, administered by DFR.
2.15      GRA is beset with many problems.  In addition to inadequate
funds, it has 47 or about 65% of its engineering positions vacant, and a
surplus of unskilled staff. Despite Government's efforts under
the Bank Group's Second and Third Highway Projects (paras. 2.28 and
2.29), only about 20-25% of actual maintenance needs of the road system
have been met during the past 10-12 years, the percentages being even
less recently. As a result, road conditions in Ghana have deteriorated
to such an extent that some important road sections have become practi-
cally impassable, and road transport costs are high all over the
country. According to data compiled by GRA, the approximate condition
of trunk roads (paved and gravel) is 15X good, 40% fair, and 45Z poor
(moderate to severe failure). Average vehicle operating costs (VOC) are
estimated to be about 15% higher for "fair", 40% higher for "moderate
failure", and 65% higher for "severe failure", compared to "good" roads.
This condition will continue to worsen unless measures are taken
immediately  to  arrest  further  deterioration.   The  main  factors
responsible for GHA's poor road maintenance performance have been:



-6-
(i) insufficient foreign and local inputs and related shortages of fuel,
materials and spare parts due to the critical financial situation of
Government; (ii) delays in payment to contractors and, more recently, in
adjusting contractor rates after the massive 1,000% devaluation in 1983;
(iii) inefficient management of GCA particularly of its workshops and
stores; and (iv) less.-than-living wages for Government workers,
resulting in lack of incentives, high absenteeism (50% in some units),
low productivity, widespread demoralization and a virtual breakdown of
the routine maintenance which is dependent on GHA's work force.  A fire
in February 1984, which destroyed a warehouse with about US$3 million
worth of spare parts, has further incapacitated GHA.  Indeed, GRA's
continued operation is primarily due to the tenacity and devotion of a
few competent managers at the top of the organization. Annexes 2-8 and
2-9 refer to road conditions and Annex 2-10 on performance of road
maintenance compared to needs.
2.16      Under the ongoing Third Highway Project (para 2.29) and in
preparation for the proposed project, GHA itself devised the following
measures in 1983-84 to improve its performance: Firstly, it employed a
consulting firm to be in charge of the problem-ridden workshops and
stores, a decision which has already improved their performance signifi-
cantly. These consultants are also studying a reorganization of the
workshops and of the entire equipment maintenance system.  Secondly,
GHA, in consultation with the Association, commissioned a manpower study
of the organization.   Based on the study, GHA intends to follow a
reduction plan for its surplus staff (see para 3.04), and under the
proposed project to increase training and bring in expatriate line
managers to help fill professional vacancies temporarily while new
Ghanaian staff are trained. Thirdly, GRA set up a Mobile Maintenance
Unit (MMU), under Japanese aid, whicb has produced impressive results in
pavement rehabilitation and resealing works. Essentially, the MMU is a
project unit organized under a project manager with technical staff,
equipment   support,   autonomy,   a  defined  work  program,   special
output-related cash incentives, and which reports directly to GHA, thus
avoiding political interference at the regional level.  A second MMU
will be created under the proposed project. Fourthly, GRA has already
introduced "single-man contractors" (SMCs) with responsibility for
roadside maintenance of about 5 km stretches of road, and a maintenance
contract with a timber company. Road maintenance should improve under
the proposed project with the expansion of the above measures.
2.17      In 1984, GRA had a total capital and development budget of
Cedis 1,568 million (US$45 million equivalent at the average exchange
rate of US$1 = 35 Cedis prevailing in 1984), covering reconstruction
(Cedis 953 million), periodic maintenance (Cedis 510 million), and urban
roads  (Cedis 105 million).  DFR had a capital budget of Cedis 496
million  (US$14.2  million  equivalent).   These  amounts were  grossly
inadequate to meet current needs. The entire road financing is provided
through Government budget (Annex 2-11) which has been faced with a need
to mobilize additional resources.  The current road user charges are
insignificant as discussed in para 2.26.



- 7 -
2.18      Of the 600 registered private Ghanaian contractors, about 170
have executed GRA/DFR contracts for road works, though the number
currently employed is only about 70.  The Government-owned State Con-
struction  Corporation  (SCC)  has  participated  under  IDA-financed
projects; however, its performance has been unsatisfactory.  Foreign
firms are usually employed on major road and bridge works.
2.19      The Second and Third Highway Projects (paras 2.28 and 2.29)
provided, among other items, financial and technical assistance to
domestic road maintenance contractors and quarry operators, channelled
through the Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC). The Third Highway
Project also included institution building for BRC, and indirect
technical assistance for Plant Pool (a BHC subsidiary) and domestic
contractors. While the contractors have generally performed much better
than GHA, they have recently faced major problems due to delay in
contractual payments, delay in revising contract rates after major
devaluations and consequent price increases, and difficulty in getting
imported spare parts and fuel. In order to solve the problem of rate
adjustments, and to ease part of the debt burden on domestic contractors
who were BHC's sub-borrowers under the Third Highway Project, the
Government announced in November 1984 changes in unit rates to reflect
increases up to March 1984, which will be implemented retroactively.
During negotiations, it was agreed that contractors' unit rates under
existing road maintenance or rehabilitation contracts would be adjusted
by December 31, 1985 to reflect devaluations and price increases since
January 1, 1983, and from January 1, 1986, automatic adjustments of
contractors' unit rates for road works would be made to reflect changes
in exchange rates or prices in accordance with a formula acceptable to
the Association.
2.20      Efforts are currently being made to address the mounting
problems facing BHC which was established by decree in November 1972.
BHC is a government owned development bank, with an initial authorized
share capital of ¢ 20.0 million. Although BHC's primary objective is
the promotion and financing of the building materials industries,
private domestic construction companies, private housing and commercial
buildings, its two major areas of activities are commercial banking
(about 40Z of total portfolio) and industrial loans mainly to contrac-
tors and for the production of building materials (about 50X of total
portfolio). It is estimated that BHC's outstanding mortgage portfolio
of e 15.9 million represents about a third of the combined mortgage
portfolio (particularly for residential housing) of the banking sector.
Due to reasons largely beyond its control (e.g., serious staff con-
straints and interruption of technical assistance due to political
turmoil), BHC's performance under the Third Highway Project, though
slightly better  than  under  the  Second Project,  remained at best,
marginal.   BHC continues to suffer from institutional and financial
problems. On the institutional side, procedures remain weak and the bank
is understaffed; a situation particularly obvious in the accounting
department which has been unable to produce timely and reliable
accounting data. Further, appropriate policy statements and operating
procedures are required based partly upon review and updating of
internal  documents.   On  the  financial  side,  BHC's  continued weak



-8-
financial management and high portfolio arrears, coupled with the
effects of the recent series of devaluations of the Cedi, which have
significantly eroded the dollar equivalent of BHC's net worth (from
US$12.8 million in June 1982 to US$1.4 million in June 1984), have
resulted in a deterioration of its term debt/equity ratio to 29.5:1
(BHC's bylaws and the ID4 Agreement both provide for a ceiling of 3:1).
However, BHC's board has recently approved an increase in the authorized
share capital to Cedis 800 million and other financial measures which,
when they become effective, would improve BHC's net worth significantly
and raise its term debt/equity ratio to 10:1. At least this is a first
step towards the right direction.
2.21       Although  the  Third  Highway  Project  provides  for  the
sub-borrowers of BHC to assume the foreign exchange risk (para 2.19),
two major problems further compound its already difficult financial
situation.   Firstly,  although  the  sub-borrower assumes  the  foreign
exchange risk up to the point of repayment to BEC, the Government is to
assume all such risks during the time lapsed between collection frcm
sub-borrowers by BHC and actual repayment to Government. However, due
to political changes during the interim, the relevant approved
subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and BHC were signed
only in April 1985; Secondly, since the loan and purchase of equipment
by the sub-borrowers were made before devaluation, and the Cedi
equivalent of the loan has now substantially increased, the resultant
additional debt burden has become a collection problem for BHC.
2.22      Notwithstanding the problems noted above, a reorganization of
BHC and the recruitment of 12 new professionals in 1984 have brought
about some improvement. Given (a) that BHC is still a fairly young
institution with the potential to play a significant role as a
development catalyst in a sector vital to the future of civil works,
particularly in the highways subsector; (b) the ability and continued
commitment evidenced by BEC's managing team; (c) the important
experience and know-how of the civil works sector already accumulated by
BHC; and (d) the long periods required for effective institution
building, additional technical assistance to BHC for institution
building  is  being  proposed  under  the  project  (para  3.08).   The
Government and BEC are preparing a detailed action program which would
include measures designed to : (a) strengthen the financial condition of
BHC including a restructuring of the capital of the bank, and a
resolution with Government of current and future exchange losses to
which BHC may be exposed, mainly by Government agreeing to assume these
risks; (b) revamp BHC's policy statement, organizational structure and
operational procedures, including staffing and training; (c) improve
BHC's project appraisal and supervision activities; (d) strengthen BEC's
accounting and management information systems and internal controls; (e)
improve BHC's loan recovery performance, including agreed collection
targets; and (f) strengthen BHC's commercial banking operations. During
negotiations agreement was reached that BHC will adopt by September 30,
1985, and carry out an action program, acceptable to the Association,
for strengthening its financial condition and operational and financial
management capabilities (Annex 2-12).



C. Transport Sector Issues
2.23      During 1984, a Bank transport sector mission visited Ghana to
prepare a Transport Sector Strategy Note (TSSN) focusing on the
country's main transport problems and policy issues. The purpose of
this exercise was to agree with Government on a strategy for dealing
with the problems and issues, as a basis for the continued involvement
of the Association in Ghana's transport sector.  The draft TSSN was
recently reviewed with Government officials, and a final version of the
document was given to Government in May 1985.  The TSSN proposes a
coordinated approach linking necessary policy and institutional reforms
to a phased program of assistance to rehabilitate the sector.  From the
conclusions of the report and the dialogue with the Government, the IMF
and other major donors, it is clear that the Bank Group's strategies i;.
the transport sector should continue to concentrate on rehabilitation
and maintenance of the existing roads, bridges and ports together with a
strong emphasis on institutional improvement and local staff training.
While the TSSN provides a reference point for further action and
follow-up by the Government and the Association, the three issues
highlighted below need to be dealt with in the context of the proposed
project.
2.24      Investment Planning.   A major issue relates to investment
priorities and allocation of adequate resources for rehabilitating the
transport sector. Investment planning has been weak and needs strength-
ening (para 2.27).  It is important that (a) rehabilitation of the
transport sector should receive high priority in allocation of resources
in view of the dilapidated condition of the basic transport infrastruc-
ture and its key role in facilitating economic recovery; (b) funding for
high priority projects should be adequate, while funding for
non-priority projects should be excluded; and (c) there should be proper
monitoring of progress in project execution and financing. Accordingly,
during negotiations, the Government and the Association agreed; (a) to a
joint review annually between 1985 and 1990 of Government's annual
investment program for the transport sector for the three years
subsequent to review, beginning with the period 1986-88 and including
detailed physical work programs and projects in all transport modes; and
(b) to monitor jointly implementation of the programs at six monthly
intervals.
2.25      Allocations in Government's  capital budget  for  1985 have
already been agreed with the Association, in the context of the
appraisal of RIC II.   Of the Cedis 8.25 billion estimated budget
(equivalent to US$156 million at current exchange rates), about 45Z is
allocated   for   transport,   reflecting   the  high  priority  which
rehabilitation of the transport system plays in the economic recovery of
Ghana. The proposed project is part of the Government's core development
program for roads, which has been reviewed by the Association (Annex
2-13).
2.26      Inadequacy of road user cnarges.  Road users make practically
no contribution to road maintenance and rehabilitation costs which is



- 10 -
one reason why Government is unable to provide adequate funding for road
maintenance. The road maintenance budget during 1981-84 could meet only
about 15 to 20X of the actual annual maintenance requirements. Gasoline
and diesel prices in Ghana are currently only slightly above interna-
tional prices at the current over-valued exchange rate, thus yielding no
significant fuel tax revenue from road users. 1/ To remedy the problem
of inadequate road user charges and insufficient budget allocation for
road maintenance and rehabilitation, Government agreed at negotiations,
to levy a fuel tax (gasoline and diesel) of Cedis 5 per gallon and to
deposit the proceeds in a Road Fund. Proceeds from a new vehicle use
tax and existing tolls would also be added to the Road Fund. Based on
1983 consumption levels, the lowest in recent times, annual yield from
the fuel tax and othei levies would be approximately Cedis 610 miflion
or US$11.5 million equivalent wnich represents about 25% of the
estimated annual periodic maintenance requirements of Ghana's road
network.   Further, Government agreed to complete before December 31,
1985, a study on the structure and adequacy of road user charges with
the objective o' attaining coverage of at least 50% of the cost of
annual periodic maintenance requirements as from January 1, 1991,
through suitable periodic increase in user charges.  Establishment of
the road user tax and the Road Fund would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. Since the proposed project covers the highest priority
investments in '-he road subsector, Road Fund revenues during 1986-89
(the project implementation period) would be utilized to meet the local
costs under the project; all remaining funds would be allocated in
accordance with the priorities established in consultation with the
Association while reviewing road sector investment plans.
2.27      Strengthening of Transport Planning.  To provide sector-wide
planning support for Ghana's transport sector, the Government, the UNDP
and the Association have recently prepared a coordinated program, which
will be largely financed by UNDP under the proposed project.   The
program provides for technical assistance and other support to
strengthen planning units in MOTC, GRA and DFR. The planning units
will, in coordination with one another, prepare investment plans for the
sub-sector concerned, conduct project evaluation, improve collection and
analysis of statistics, and conduct studies and analysis of transport
problems, with expatriate assistance as needed.  Further, as part of
reorganization of MRH, UNDP will assist in setting up a Budgeting,
1/   Along with recent devaluations, prices of petroleum products have
been raised frequently in Ghana. Between September 1983 and May
1985, the retail prices of regular gasoline and diesel were raised
by about 300% and 400%, respectively. Present prices are: 90 Cedis
per imperial gallon for regular gasoline (equivalent to US$1.42 per
U.S. gallon at current official exchange rate), and 80 Cedis per
imperial gallon for diesel (equivalent to about US$1.26 per U.S.
gallon). These prices, which include a tax of about 2%, are much
below corresponding prices in neighboring countries, and are
subsidized if a more realistic exchange rate is used.



- 11 -
Planning and Programming Department in MRH.  MRE  will monitor and
coordinate the planning work done by GHA and DFR, and also coordinate
with MOTC and the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. UNDP has
already initiated assistance for the MOTC planning unit.
D. IDA Involvement in the Transport Sector
2.28      Apart from an engineering credit for US$1.5 million in 1969
for the preparation of road projects, the Bank Group has provided three
highway credits/loans to Ghana. The First Highway Project (Credit 438-GH
for US$13.0 million in FY74) was fully disbursed by February 1981. The
Second Highway Project (Credit 594-GH for US$10.0 million and Loan
1182-GH for US$18.0 million in FY75) was completed in 1983. The ongoing
Third Highway Project (Emergency Maintenance Project, Credit 1029-GH for
US$25.0 million, approved in FY80), is due to be completed by June 30,
1986. These projects financed assorted road construction works, and more
importantly, road maintenance operations and related institution
building, including support to local contractors.
2.29      The First and Second Highway Projects achieved only mixed
results.  The Bank's combined audit report for both projects noted that
while the physical investments yielded acceptable economic returns, the
projects' achievements in meeting their institution-building objectives
were rather limited. Moreover, the ongoing Third Highway Project, the
maiu objective of which is to support GHA's maintenance operations
through provision of spare parts, equipment and technical assistance for
GHA and domestic contractors, faced major problems related to GHA's and
BBC's operations. While this credit is 86% disbursed, general road
maintenance work has fallen far behind schedule for the reasons
discussed in para 2.15. It should be emphasized, as the audit report
does, that a good part of the problems of the previous projects arose
from: (i) political and economic instability which haunted the country
during the period; (ii) absence of a strategy to relate sector objec-
tives to the adverse macro-economic environment, particularly regarding
work  incentives  in  the  Government  sector;  and  (iii)  relatively
over-ambitious targets fixed for the projects. The proposed project is
designed to  minimize risks, and has taken into consideration these
factors (para 4.06).
2.30      In addition, outside the roads subsector, the Bank approved a
Railway Rehabilitation Project in 1981 (Cr. 1170-GH for US$29.0 million,
with co-financing from African Development Bank).  This project is now
making satisfactory progress, although it has faced many implementation
problems and delays (para. 2.05 and Annex 2-1). More recently, the Bank
provided three program-type emergency credits, all having transport
components.  The Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC-I; US$40 million)
approved in June 1983, and already fully committed, provided US$18.7
million for import of tires, spare parts and batteries, mainly for the
private road transport sector. The Export Rehabilitation Project (ERP;
US$ 76.0 million, approved January 1984) provided US$4.8 million for
emergency assistance for ports, and US$4.3 million for cocoa transport.
Its companion project for Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance
(ERTAP;  US$17.1  million)  includes  US$0.9  million  for  technical



- 12 -
assistance to the ports subsector. These projects are all making good
progress.   Separately,  the  Association  approved  in  August  1984  a
Government request for a Project Preparation Facility advance of
US$510,000 to prepare a port rehabilitation project for FY86.  Two
recent projects approved during FY85 with transport components are:
Reconstruction import Credit II (RIC II) and the Accra District
Rehabilitation  Project.   The  foregoing  projects  all  focus  on  the
critical needs of the transport sector.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The project is designed to contribute to the Government's
economic recovery program by removing road transport obstructions to the
vital export/import trade and the movement of domestic farm outputs and
inputs. The objectives of the project are: (a) to strengthen the road
agencies under MRH and revitalize road maintenance operations through
support of increased private sector participation and the introduction
of improved management in GRA and DFR coupled with staff incentives and
systematic training programs; (b) to reduce transport costs and protect
Ghana's large past and future investments in the road sub-sector through
improved maintenance; (c) to rehabilitate part of the most important
trunk road in the country; (d) to foster the rehabilitation and recovery
of the agricultural sector mainly through improved feeder road mainte-
nance; (e) to improve transport planning and to reorient transport
investment through careful selection of high priority investments and
increased emphasis on rehabilitation and maintenance; and (f) to assist
in the rationalization of transport policies, including adjustment of
road user charges, thus ensuring better mobilization and utilization of
resources.
B. Project Description
3.02      To assist in fulfilling the objectives,  the project would
provide financial assistance for the following components:
(a) three year (1986-88) requirements for rehabilitation and
maintenance of Ghana's trunk road network comprising:
(i) a three-year time slice of GHA's road maintenance
program,   including   regravelling,   paved   road
resurfacing and minor improvements, as well as road
and equipment maintenance management and support to
domestic road contractors through sub-loans with
BHC;
(ii)  a technical assistance program, benefitting MIRH,
GHA, DFR, BHC, and domestic road maintenance
contractors;



- 13 -
(iii) a training program for staff of GHA and DFR;
(iv)  food aid and incentive program to reduce absenteeism
and to increase productivity of MRH and its
agencies; and
(v)  project supervision and coordination.
(b)  a bridge rehabilitation program;
(c)  a  three  year  pilot  feeder  roads  program  with  DYR,
comprising   road   and   drainage   improvements   and
maintenance, using appropriate technology; and
(d)  rehabilitation of about 105 km of the Accra-Kumasi Road.
Rehabilitatiou and Maintenance of the Trunk Road Network
3.03      Road Maintenance Program.  To improve the condition of the
trunk road network so that normal maintenance activities can be carried
out, GHA will continue to rely mainly on domestic contractors for
bitumen resurfacing and regravelling works. GHA will also add a second
MMU (para 2.16) to the one currently carrying out effectively paved road
rehabilitation and resurfacing. The proposed three-year periodic
maintenance program would only cover about 30Z of the actual needs
mainly because of funding constraints. However, this represents about
6hZ increase over the maintenance level achieved during 1981-84. The
program is within the administrative and technical capacity of GE& and
its contractors. To the extent that Government's financial and GHA's
administrative constraints are lessened, the road maintenance effort
will be expanded and strengthened in the future. The Planning Unit in
GHA, which is being strengthened under the project (para 3.07), will
assist in preparing future programs. The list of roads for resurfacing
and minor improvements under the program, the regional location and
lengths of roads to be covered under resealing and regravelling have
been agreed with GRA. The lists of roads under the program will be
reviewed annually between the Association and GHA (para 2.24). During
negotiations the Government agreed that the selection of specific roads
will follow priorities based on economic criteria, and will be such that
investment on any road would yield an estimated economic return of at
least 15X from savings in vehicle operating costs. The annual targets
for network rehabilitation and periodic and routine maintenance compared
to the needs estimated by GHA, are shown in Annex 3-1 (See also Annex
2-10J.
3.04      Further, to ensure GEA's organizational reform, agreement was
reached on the following: (a) initiation by July 1, 1986 of an agreed
action program for the reorganization of GEA's equipment management as
well as a personnel management program acceptable to the Association;
and (b) adoption of a plan to transfer an increasing portion of road
maintenance works to contractors so that all periodic maintenance beyond
the capacity of the two Ml's would be undertaken by contractors by



- 14 -
December 31, 1989.  As part of (a), GHA has indicated its intention to
reduce its staff from 8,375 to about 6,700 by December 1988.
3.05      GEA equipment management was placed under the direct authority
of consultants in May 1984. This arrangement will be continued and
strengthened under the project.  The services to be provided by GRA
workshops throughout the country have been redefined by the consultants.
A number of smaller district workshops would be closed because they are
not adequately utilized, and initially corrective maintenance would be
carried out by three zone workshops and major repairs by the Central
Mechanical Workshop (CMW) in Accra. The project would improve workshop
and store facilities, and would provide spare parts, tools and machinery
to enable the workshops to function efficiently.  About 165 m-m of
technical assistance will be provided under the project, with each
specialist taking direct managerial responsibility for the initial years
of the project. Counterparts would be trained during this period to
take over the management functions, with the specialists providing
advice and guidance after the initial period.  The spare parts and
materials purchased and warehoused under the project by GHA, DFR and
Plant Pool would be reinsured with a foreign insurance company. During
negotiations, agreement was reached, in principle, on the locations and
functions of GHA workshops, which will be refined under the project, and
on a timetable for implementing the new physical and administrative
structure for managing GHA's fleet, as well as insurance arrangements
covering warehousing of spare parts.
3.06      Under  the  project,  BHC will  finance  the  acquisition  of
equipment, spares and other inputs to be made available to contractors,
quarry operators and the Plant Pool,  through  sub-loans.   About 25
domestic road contractors and eight quarry operators selected on the
basis of past performance and estimated needs are expected to be
assisted under the project. The Plant Pool will make such equipment,
spares and inputs, financed by BHC, available to GHA and DFR contractors
engaged under the project, through hire or direct sales under terms
acceptable to the Association (para 3.19). New metallic bins will be
installed  to  increase  Plant  Pool's  storage  capacity.   Specialized
assistance to domestic road contractors and quarry owners in their
operations will be continued under the project through the Project
Management Unit (para 3.12).  Negotiated contracts, as at present, will
be initially continued under the project as most domestic contractors
are very small and unable to prepare unit priced bids; firms would
receive additional training in cost accounting, bidding and contract
management with a view to introducing an appropriate form of competitive
bidding for contracts to be awarded after January 1, 1987; all new
contracts after January 1, 1988 would be awarded through local
competitive  bidding.   Only  firms which  can  satisfy  BHC  of  tiheir
financial soundness, even if they do not win contracts under competitive
bidding, will be able to obtain further sub-loans from BHC for new
equipment. The full adoption of local competitive bidding procedures
for  contracts  to  be  awarded  after  January 1,  1988,  for  road
rehabilitation and maintenance works managed by MRH agencies was agreed
at negotiations. The status of the GRA contractors' equipment fleet and



- 15 -
estimated needs for the programmed works as well as an assessment of
Plant Pool management and fleet are given in Annex 3-2.
3.07      Technical  Assistance  Program.   The  project  would  provide
technical assistance for (i) workshop and stores management (165 m-m;
para 3.05); (ii) strengthening the planning and budgeting units in MRH
and GRA (54 m-m; pars 2.27); (iii) planning and project execution for
DFR (97 i-m; paras. 2.27 and 3.14); and (iv) preparation of a follow-up
project and other studies, including a study on road user charges
(50 m-m).  It will also provide foreign exchange support for continuing
GHA's program of employing expatriate regional engineers as supervisory
field staff, which was recently curtailed due to foreign exchange
shortage. Other technical assistance includes support for BHC (71 m-m;
para 3.08), and a Bridge Maintenance Unit (20 m-m; para 3.13).  Such a
large input of consultancy personnel is essential to implement the
project efficiently and to improve road maintenance in the country,
because of the large-scale emigration of experienced Ghanaian engineers
due to  the extremely  low salary levels.   In GHA alone,  about 50
engineering positions (65Z of requirements) are currently vacant; with
the success of current economic recovery efforts, the situation is
expected to improve gradually.  Terms of reference for all technical
assistance were agreed during negotiations.
3.08      The project would include a technical assistance program to
BHC. This assistance, to be provided by a suitable overseas banking
institution engaged in similar act!vities and/or experienced, opera-
tionally-involved experts, would be based upon a detailed Action Plan
(para 2.22 and Annex 2-12) and would focus initially on thorough review
of BBC's policy statements, organization structure and operating
procedures with the objective of providing appropriate recommendations
for improvements.   The technical assistance would formulate, document
and implement appropriate and effective guidelines and procedures
covering (a) project appraisal (including engineering evaluation),
implementation management and supervision; (b) financial management;
Cc) accounting  and  management  information  systems;  (d) portfolio
management and loan recovery activities; (e) internal audit and
controls; (f) commercial banking operations; and, to a limited extent,
(g) research and statistics.  The assistance, covering about 71 mr-M,
will involve seven largely "in-place" operationally involved experts.
The Action Plan for BHC and terms of reference for the related technical
assistance were agreed at negotiations.
3.09      Training Program for GHA and DFR.  A comprehensive program to
train and upgrade GHA and DFR road/equipment personnel at all levels
will be administered by GHA with assistance of consultants. The project
will finance a tranche of a continuing program starting in 1987 which
includes the training of some 1,600 personnel from engineers to supervi-
sors, operators, mechanics, warehousemen and cost clerks. It is esti-
mated that during the first two years about 200 personnel will attend
training courses, and 150-200 annually thereafter. To upgrade GHA's
Training Division, its chief and deputy are scheduled to attend in
October 1985 a seven-week Bank-ILO course for training officers. The
training program includes: (i) the setting up of a Training Steering



- 16 -
Comaittee (TSC) under MRH leadership; (1i) the strengthening of GRA's
Training Division; (iii) the establishment of a Road Training Production
Unit (RTPU) under GRA for the training of road supervisors and equipment
operators/drivers; (iv) the setting up of a Mechanical Training
Production  Unit  (MTPU)  under  GRA  for  the  training  of mechanical
personnel; (v) the purchasing of training equipment and materials; (vi)
the recruitment of training specialists and instructors; (vii) the
organization of periodic seminars and other special courses for middle-
and  high-level  maintenance  staff;   and   (viii)   training  abroad
(fellowships,   international   seminars/conferences)    for   selected
MRH/GEA/DFR staff.  The project would provide about 110 a-m of training
assistance, incentives for counterparts, instructors and trainees and
operating materials for MTPU and RTPU. The training program and terms
of reference for technical assistance were agreed at negotiations (Annex
3-3).
3.10      With GHA's acute shortage of trained engineers and managers,
the project will provide one year academic and practical courses for
about six engineers, short-term courses or attachments to foreign
highway  organizations  and  participation  at  relevant  international
seminars.   Also,  funds  will  be  provided  to  upgrade  teaching  and
experimental equipment at the University of Science and Technology in
Kumasi, the sole source of highway engineers in Ghana.
3.11      Food Aid and Incentive Program.  Arrangements have been made
with the World Food Program (WFP) to supply food imports to employees of
IMRH and its agencies, through GHA. The food aid will be in items which
will not adversely affect local production. In order to link the food
aid with increased productivity, norms for the food distribution program
'Linked to reduced absenteeism and increased productivity will be
established. These arrangements are similar to those which are being
successfully carried out under the Railway Project and the port
component of the Export Rehabilitation Project. The project will also
provide other incentives such as provision of staff quarters for key
personnel, and worker transport (Annex 3-4).
3.12      Project Supervision and Coordination.  Past experience has
shown that better coordination between BHC, GHA, DFR and private
domestic contractors is essential for an efficient road maintenance
program involving all these agencles. To provide such coordination and
to assist BHC and lIRH agencies in the supervision of the various project
elements, a Prcject Management Unit (PMU) would be established for the
duration of the project. The PMU will be staffed by an experienced team
of consultants (about 130 m-m) supplied through a consulting firm, and
supported by qualified local staff. PU would be an autonomous unit as
far as its management and coordinating functions were concerned. It
would be attached to, and assist the new Monitoring and Evaluation
Department within MRH in defining and carrying out its functions. These
functions will be gradually absorbed by the Monitoring and Evaluation
Department which will fully take them over by the end of the project.
P2U would train, through on-the-job demonstrations and courses, staff of
MMR, GRA, DFR and BEC, on all areas covered by PMD's functions.  PHU
would administer the procurement for domestic contractors under the



- 17 -
relevant authority of DFR, GRA and BHC. In addition, the PMU would
train MRH agencies in accounting and costing functions, and would
supervise the operations of revolving funds set up under the project and
related disbursement requests for the various co-financiers. The PMU,
through assisting the domestic road contracting industry and MRH
agencies in developing souq,d prequalification and contracting procedures
should, by the end of the project, have established sustainable systems
for cost and financial accounting, procurement of supplies, competitive
contracting of road works, and effective contract management by the
agencies and private firms.  After project completion, the concerned
agencies would be eble to follow the procedures set up by the PMU for
coordination  of  future  activities.   The  engagement  of  the  PMU
consultants would  be  a  condition  of  effectiveness.   The Ter a of
Reference for the PMU were agreed at negotiations (Annex 3-5).
Bridge Rehabilitation Program
3.13       A country-wide  survey of bridges  financed under the PPF
identified those in need of reconstruction or rehabilitation. Of these,
11 of the most critical will be repaired and three bridges reconstructed
under the project. The detailed design work has been completed and the
bidding  nrocess  has  started.   GHA  will  also  establish  a  bridge
maintenance  unit  within  its  Maintenance  Division  with  20 i-m  of
technical assistance to ensure that preventive maintenance is carried
out correctly and in a timely manner. Details of the program, the terms
of reference for technical assistance for the bridge maintenance unit
and supervision of the bridge works, and the organization and staffing
of the bridge maintenance unit were agreed at negotiations (Annex 3-6).
Pilot Feeder Roads Program with DFR
3.14      The three-year pilot feeder roads program is based on a study
(Pilot Feeder Roads Project - March 1985) prepared by DFR with
assistance of consultants and ILO, and comprises (a) rehabilitating
about 240 km of feeder roads in the Sefwi-Wiawso district; (b) spot
improvements along 700 km and routine maintenance of 2,000 km in the
Western, Ashanti and Brong Ahafo regions; and (c) strengthening DFR's
planning and maintenance capacity. The initial program is in the nature
of a pilot effort with the intention of gradually replicating it in
other regions.  All work would be essentially labor intensive to be
carried out by local contractors for road rehabilitation and force
account for spot improvements and maintenance. Equipment would be ma6e
available to the contractors through sub-loans with BHC or through
rental  arrangements  with  Plant  Pool.   About  97 m-m  of  technical
assistance would assist DFR in executing the program. The Pilot Feeder
Roads Program including design standards and work methodology to be
applied, as well as the terms of reference and counterpart staffing were
agreed at negotiations (Annex 3-7).



18 -
Rehabilitation of the Accra-Kumasi Road
3.15      With the exception of the Accra-Nsawam section ,.23 km), a
major portion of the Accra-Kumasi road  (256 km) is in a seriously
deteriorated state.  Consultant studies indicate that the northern
Anyinam-Kumasi section (136 km) urgently requires an asphalt overlay to
protect the sub-base and base; however, funding for only 105 km is
expected to be available.  Consultants have completed the derailed
engineering and will be responsible for work supervision; the bidding
process  has  conmmenced.   In view  of  the  keen  interest  shown  by
contractors in prequalifying, and anticipated highly competitive
bidding, tenders will be called for the entire length of 136 km; the
length of road to be rehabilitated will be determined by the available
funding.
Refinancing of PPF
3.16      To assist Ghana in preparing the project, IDA granted an
advanee of US$1.0 million from the PPF in August 1981.  The funds were
used to finance the necessary engineering work for rehabilitation of the
Accra-Kumasi road and the bridge rehabilitation program. The work has
been completed.
C. Project Cost Estimates and Financing
3.17      The  estimated  total  cost  oL  the  project,   including
contingencies, is US$104.7 million equivalent, exclusive of taxes which
amount  to  about US$17.0 million  equivalent.   The  foreign  exchange
component-is about US$75.0 million or 72% of the total cost. Costs have
been estimated at March 1985 prices, and uses the current official
exchange rate of US$1  =  53¢.   Costs  include  an average physical
contingency of about 3Z. This low rate is assumed because most of the
project cost cover a three year (1986-88) time slice of the Government's
road maintenance and feeder roads program. There is also a provision
for price escalation of about 17%, based on estimated foreign inflation
of 5% for 1985, 7.5 for 1986, and 8% for 1987-90.  Estimated rates of
inflation on foreign costs have been applied to both foreign and local
costs.  This assumes that any persistent divergence in foreign and local
rates of inflation will have to be corrected by exchange rate
adjustments. The project would be financed by IDA (US$40.0 million
equivalent), AfDF (US$18.1 million equivalent), Japanese Government
(US$2.0 million equivalent), WFP (US$8.1 million equivalent), and UNDP
(US$1.4 million equi7alent).  Government will bear US$11.4 million in
foreign exchange and US$40.9 million equivalent in local costs.
Government's contribution will cover 44% of total costs including taxes.
The above cofinancing arrangements are firm, but have yet to be formally
committed. The Government gives the highest priority to this project in
the current development budget because transport bottlenecks have been
hampering the implementation of the economic recovery program, and have
allocated enough funds to cover its contribution to this project.
However, given the foreign exchange shortage the Government is facing,
it would be desirable to relieve the Government from making a foreign
exchange contribution. Therefore, efforts will be continued to obtain



- 19 -
further cofinancing, and the Government and IDA have obtained positive
signs from two of the possible cofinanciers so far approached. Details
of cost estimates, financIng plan, and needed Government budgetary
allocations for the project during 1987 to 1989 are shown in Annex 3-8.
3.18      IDA and  the  cofinanciers will  finance  100% of  technical
assistance, project coordination and training; 100% if CIF costs of
equipment, materials and spare parts up to the limits of available
financing (presently US$20.0 million; about US$11.4 million would be
borne by the Government); and all foreign costs associated with the
trunk road maintenance program. The Government's contribution to the
road maintenance program will be about 28Z (excluding taxes); its
average annual contribution (1986-88) will be kept at about the level
budgeted for 1985, net of foreign financing. IDA and cofinanciers will
finance about 83% of civil works for the bridge, feeder road and
Accra-Kumasi road components.  Overall 457 m-m of technical assistance,
excluding project coordination, supervision and training, would be
provided under the project. The average m-rm cost of consulting services
will be about US$9,000 depending on the required skills and
qualifications (including travel and living allowances).
3.19      In addition to US$1.0 million for technical assistance and
related inputs which will be passed on to BEC in the form of a grant,
the Government will relend US$5 million of the credit proceeds for 12
years including 2 years of grace at 12% per annum to BHC for onlending,
for equipment and other inputs, to (i) private domestic contractors and
quarry operators who execute GHA/DFR road maintenance contracts; and
(ii) Plant Pool. BHC's sub-borrowers would assume the foreign exchange
risk but would be substantially protected by automatic adjustments in
contracting rates following devaluation (para 2.19). They would pay an
interest rate of 20% per annum with up to 12 years repayment period
including 3 years of grace. The domestic inflation rate, 39% in 1984,
should continue to subside provided Government continues with its
economic  stabilization  program.   The  Government  is  committed  to
achieving positive interest rates by the middle of 1986. The execution
of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and BHC would be a
condition of disbursement for the BBC sub-loans.
D. Implementation
3.20      The project would be implemented by GHA and DFR under the
authority of MRH, and by BHC insofar as financial assistance to the
domestic contracting industry is concerned. The PMU with the support of
the new Monitoring and Road Department of HRH will provide overall
coordination and management of the various project elements, and assist
the domestic road construction industry. The project is expected to be
effective in September, 1985 and to be physically completed by December
31, 1989; disbursements  should be  completed by June 30, 1990.  The
five-year disbursement period is shorter than the standard disbursement
profile for IDA-financed transport projects in West Africa (6 years).
This shorter period is considered realistic because: (a) the project is
a three year time slice (1986-88) of the Government's maintenance
program; and (b) disbursements will be mainly against imports for which



- 20 -
procurement machinery already exists in the GHA,- and which will be
strengthened  by  the  PMU.   The  implementation  schedule,  shown  in
Annex 3-9 was agreed at negotiations.
Procuxement
3.21      Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows;
Amounts and Methods of Procurement a/
(US$ million)
Total
Procuremt Method                   Project
Items to be Procnurd               ICB      ILB      Other       NA        Cost
Fquipu,ent, spares, fuel, batteries,    10.0  5.0    17.0                  32.0
tires, b/                         (10.0)   (2.0)    (3.0)                 (15.0)
Poad 1iutenmee Works d/                     9.2       9.2                  18.4
(3.6)    (3.6)                 (7.2)
Tedmical Assistnce                                    5.8                   5.8
Progra                                               (4.8)                 (4.8)
Project Sqprvsdin e/                                  3.6                   3.6
(2.6)                 (2.6)
Training npgram                             0.5      0.3                    0.8
(0.3)    (0.3)                 (0.6)
Incentive Proga
(food aid)                                           8.1                   8.1
Brpge Rebab Works                   7.3                                     7.3
(5.5)                                  (5.5)
Feeder Rd Works                             3.7       0.5 fI                4.2
(2.2)    (0.3)                 (2.5)
Road Reiab Works                  20.2 zf                                  20.2
misc. Works h                               3.3                             3.3
(0-.8)                         (0.8)
Pefimmhig PPF                                                    1.0        1.0
(1.0)      (1.0)
Total Project          37.5    21.7      44.5        1.0       104.7
(15.5)    (8.9)    (14.6)     1.0      (40.0)
a/  Amount financed by IDA in parenthesis; costs exclude taxes.
If For GRA, BHC, and DFR.
ct Includes US$2.0 m financed by Japanese Government and US$12.4 m for
proprietary spares and
equipment.
dt Contract and force account works.
el PHU, construction supervision of bridges and road rehabilitation
works,
and training program.
ft  Force account.
g Financed by AfDF.
Includes workshops, housing, training quarters, etc.



- 21 -
3.22      Procurement of civil works. under the bridge component will be-
carried out under ICB in accordance with IDA guidelines. Procurement of
equipment, spare parts and imported materials for Plant Pool, domestic
contractors and quarries, through BHC subloans, would be governed by the
same requirements.  Consultants for technical assistance and project
supervision will be appointed as called for under Bank guidelines. PHU
would coordinate and facilitate procurement for BHC, GEA and DFR, and
would group items, where practical, with similar items financed under
the project in order to benefit from bulk purchasing. International
shopping would be permitted for proprietary spare parts and for small
groups of equipment where standardization is important for efficient
operation. Contracts for supply of goods, estimated to cost less than
US$50,000, up to an aggregate of US$1.0 million may be procured under
local  competitive  bidding  procedures.   Civil  works  for  periodic
maintenance and feeder roads works will also follow local procurement
procedures (para 3.06). Local bidding procedures were reviewed and
found satisfactory.
3.23      All procurement under  the project  except contracting for
services, will be reviewed by PMU for compliance with credit and
guideline provisions. Bidders will be prequalified for bridge works.
All transactions in excess of US$100,000 equivalent will be subject to
prior approval by IDA; this is expected to cover over 80% of the project
costs. Goods manufactured locally will be given a preference margin of
up to 15% or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less. Local
contractors will have a 7.5% preference for civil works under ICB.
Force account operations will be permitted under the project for
periodic maintenance by MMUs, spot improvements and maintenance by DFR
brigades, and construction and renovation of buildings. Import taxes
levied on project inputs for Government agencies and construction
contracts let through ICB in accordance with IDA guidelines should be
borne by the Government through suitable book adjustment between the
Ministry of Finance and NRH. During negotiations the Government agreed
to exempt project imports procured under the Credit, through ICB or
international  shopping  under   IDA  procurement  guidelines,  from
pre-shipment price inspection by a third party inspection firm.
3.24      To the extent that the project cannot provide fuel supplies
through normal channels in an adequate and timely manner, the Government
will make special arrangements to ensure that contractors and quarry
operators will be supplied with the necessary fuel to carry out the
project. During negotiations it was agreed that PHM will be authorized
to import and distribute fuel through normal commercial -channels or
Plant Pool.
F. Disbursements
3.25      The project is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30,
1990. Retroactive financing of up to US$0.5 million will be allowed for
consultants' services under to GRA. The IDA Credit would be disbursed



- 22 -
against the following categories, and on the basis of the estimated
disbursement schedule (Annex 3-10).
Allocation and Disbursemeut of IDA Credit
Category          Deecriptiona/             Im  AMo unt    Z of Expenditures
(USs K111io)  To Be Financed
1.      For PaTt A of the Project
(CHA):
(a) Equipent and-
-Materals b                       6.0
(t) directly imported                       100% of foreigL  expenditures
(it) locally procured                       70S
(b) Civil Works
Ci) by force account             2.2        16S
(Ii) by contract
(a) Bridge rehab.             5.0        OOX of foreigm expenditures
(b) Other Civil Works         5.0       16S
(c) Conultants-  Services
Training ad Studies               4.8       100I
(d) Rainsurance of
Warehouaed Spar* Parts            0.1       100X of foreign expenditures
2.      For Part B of the Project
(WE and DM)
(a) Equipment and
Meterialz                         1.3
(i) directly 1 ported                       100X of foreign expenditures
Cii) locally procured                      70X
(b) Civil Works
1i) by force account             0.3       60%
CIi) by contract                 2.0       60S
(c) Consultant.' Services.
Trailing and Studies              1.9       100%
(d) Rainsurance of
Wareboused Spare Parts           0.1        LOOX of foreign expenditures
3.      For Part C of the Project
(BBC)
(a) Equipment and  ateriasl           5.2
Ci) directly Imported                      IOOS of foreign expenditures
(ii) locally procured                      70X
(b) Office Equipment and
Vehicl-s                          0.5
Ti) directly Imported                       100% of foreign  xpenditure.
Ctt) locally procured                      702
(c) Consultants' Services
and Training                     0.5        1002
(d) Reinaurance of
Warehoused Spare Parts           0.1        100I   of foreign *xpenditures
4.      Refinancing of Project
Preparation Advance                 1.0       Amount Due
5.      UnaLlocated                            4.0
Total                                40.0
*/ The Parts of the Project are described in Schedule 2 of drafe
Development Credit Agreement.
b/ In all categories -equipuent' includes vehiclees and "_mterialus
include spare parts, fuel and other consumabl  inport.
3.26             Revolving funds will be established for IDA funds in a Special
Account. The Special Account will be established and controlled by PHU
for GHA, DFR and BHC-managed components in a commercial bank authorized
to deal in foreign currencies. The local currency contributions would
be made available by the Government from the Road Fund and through its
budgetary allocations. During negotiations the Government agreed to:
(i) cause PMU to prepare and present to the Association for approval a
program of work for GHA and DFR and related estimates of expenditures
one month prior to the commencement of each quarter; and (ii) furnish



- 23 -
GRA and DFR the local funds to meet their expenditure needs for such
quarter one month before the start of each quarter.
3.27      An advance of US$2 million from IDA funds into the Special
Account would be made after the declaration of Effectiveness.   The
Special Account, which would cover all categories of expenditure, would
be replenished following applications for reimbursement by PMU or other
authorized representatives of the Borrowers, together with appropriate
supporting documents or Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), as well as
Bank statements or the Special Account. Disbursements would be made
against SOEs in the case of eligible force account civil works, local
training programs, and contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent.
Reimbursement applications should be submitted to IDA on a monthly basis
or whenever payments are in excess of 25Z of the amount advanced to the
Special Account. The amount of IDA replenishment would not exceed the
authorized allocation for the Special Account. Only eligible project
expenditures, certified by PMU, would be made from the Special Accounts.
PMU would  also  manage  all  accounting  records  but  preparation  of
supporting documents or SOE's would be the responsibility of GEA, DFR,
MRH and BHC.
G. Accounting and Auditing
3.28      The accounting, costing, budgeting and internal audit systems
are well established in GHA. Cost and financial accounts, however, need
to be adequately integrated to enable GRA to produce reliable and timely
reports on expenditures on road maintenance and equipment operations.
Domestic contractors and quarry operations and workshop costing need
special attention to institute sound cost accounting procedures.
Technical assistance and training to establish accounting and costing
system for GHA and DFR, would be provided by PMU. External auditors
acceptable to the Association will be engaged to carry out specific
audits of the Special Account,  Project Accounts,  PMU's accounting
records, and stores and workshop accounts and provide the audit report
to IDA within 4 months of the end of each fiscal year. In addition, GHA
and BHC would appoint independent auditors acceptable to the Association
and would provide the audited report on their overall accounts to the
Association within 6 to 4 months respectively at the end of each fiscal
year. Annex 3-11 provides details.
H. Reporting
3.29      GHA, DFR and BHC with the assistance of consultants will
submit quarterly reports on project implementation and expenditures to
PMU, which will prepare a consolidated report and submit it to the
Association together with key indicators for monitoring progress of the
project and efficiency of operations.



- 24 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Nature of Project Benefits
4.01      Gha-a's road deterioration is severely hampering its economic
recovery by  adversely  affecting exports and farm production.   The
Association's recent Agricultural Sector Review for Ghana (1984), for
example, found that transportation costs between farm-gate and wholesale
markets rose in real terms by at least 25% to 50% between 1967 and 1984
in the case of trunk roads, and by much more on lower grade roads; this
has been a major factor in reducing real returns from farming for a vast
majority of farmers.
4.02      It  is difficult  to  quantify  the  sizeable macro-economic
benefits to Ghana that would result from the proposed project by
removing, at least partially, current and potential future road
transport constraints. The project would also produce other long term
benefits which are difficult to quantify, such as: (i) facilitating the
reorganization and strengthening of road maintenance institutions, (ii)
ensuring long term prioritization and funding for road maintenance by
raising road user charges and by setting up a Read Fund, and (iii)
developing   appropriate   feeder   road   standards   and   labor-based
construction and maintenance systems more appropriate to Ghana's
conditions, which will reduce the wastefulness in the present feeder
road  construction and maintenance.   The main  quantifiable benefits
consist of savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC) due to the project
(para 4.04), and relate to project components totalling 88% of project
costs.
4.03      Mainly because of local budget constraints, the project would
only partially improve the present condition of the road network. It
will however arrest further deterioration which would have doomed
Ghana's current economic recovery program, and would slightly reverse
the trend. It is estimated that in the absence of the project, Ghana's
trunk road network to be categorized as being under "moderate to severe
failure" would have increased from about 6,700 km to 8,600 km (61% of
total network) during 1986-89. With the project, however, this category
would actually decline to 6,000 km (42% of total network) during the
period; at the same time, the project would convert about 3,000 km of
roads from "inferior" quality to "good" quality reducing vehicle
operating costs and avoiding more costly rehabilitation at a later stage
(Annexes 2-8 and 2-9).
B. Economic Returns and Sensitivity
4.04      The economic return from the project relates mainly to the
savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC) brought about by improving road
conditions for the typical road sections covered by the project. This
approach applies to the main project components, namely, maintenance
program for the road network (covering periodic and routine maintenance,
and related support to contractors and GHA), and the Accra-Kumasi road
rehabilitation. Benefits for the latter further include the avoided
higher road maintenance costs that would have to be incurred in the



- 25 -
absence of the project, to keep the condition of the road from worsening
further. For the bridge rehabilitation, savings in vehicle operating
costs in avoiding detouring to alternative routes for a portion of the
present traffic that may be so diverted, are considered the main
benefit.
4.05      The project yields very high returns, even on the conservative
assumptions made. The internal economic rates of return (ERR) from the
three main project components are as follows:  the maintenance program
for trunk roads (61% of total project costs):- 73Z; rehabilitation of
Accra-Kumasi road sections (19Z of total project costs): 26Z; bridge
rehabilitation (8Z of project costs):  75%.  These three components,
totalling 88X of project costs, have a combined ERR of 62Z. Sensitivity
tests show that this would become 31% if benefits decrease by 25Z
together with a cost increase of 25%. The total project including all
costs would yield a rate of return of 53% even if benefits relating to
only 88% of the project are considered. The high return is a reflection
of the nature of the project (the large investment being protected with
the proposed project), and the deteriorated condition of the present
road network. It has been separately verified that sub-components of
each one of the main elements of the project (for example road sections
and categories taken for periodic maintenance, and individual bridges
under rehabilitation) are economically justified, and are of high
priority.  The relative variations  in  the economic  return do not
necessarily reflect relative ranking, since only part of the benefits of
each component has been included in the analysis. It is likely that the
typical road sections for regravelling and resealing taken for the
analysis  may  slightly  differ  from  actual  selection;  however  the
Government has agreed to follow economic criteria acceptable to the
Association during such selection (para 3.03).  Further details of the
economic analysis are presented in Annex 4.
C. Project Risks
4.06      The ongoing Third Highway Project (86% disbursed) has produced
low physical progress in the maintenance program due to the adverse
factors listed in para 2.15. The proposed project has been designed
with reasonable safeguards against these pitfalls. Some of the special
features of the proposed project which will reduce project risks are:
(a) special incentives for GHA's workforce including food aid; (b)
special financial measures, such as setting up a Road Fund and revolving
funds  and  foreign  financing  of  local  costs,   which will  improve
availability of local funds for the project; (c) greater reliance on
private contractors, MMU's, single-man contractors and contracts with
road user companies, for doing periodic and routine maintenance; (d)
quicker and more automatic adjustment of contractor rates and more
institutional support to contractors through BHC; (e) provision of
expatriate line management staff for the GHA workshops as a continuation
of the practice recently introduced by GHA under the ongoing Third
Highway Project; and (f) the setting up of a the PHU with expatriate
assistance to help coordinate and supervise project implementation.
These safeguards would minimize project risks to acceptable levels.



- 26 -
V. AGREEMRNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During  negotiations,  in  addition  to  standard  covenants,
agreement was reached on the following points:
(a)  Plan of action for reorganization of MRM and its agencies
(para 2.13);
(b)  Contractors' unit rates for periodic maintenance will be
adjusted by December 31, 1985.  From January 1, 1986
automatic adjustment in unit rates will be made following
devaluation and major price increases, according to a
formula to be agreed. (para 2.19);
(c)  An Action Program for BHC by September 30, 1985. (paras
2.22 and 3.08);
(d) A joint review annually between 1985-90 of the annual
investment program for the transport sector, and joint
monitoring  of  its  implementation  at  six  monthly
intervals. (para 2.24);
(e)  Establishment of a 5 Cedis tax on fuel and deposit its
proceeds  in  a  Road  Fund,  a  program  of  additional
increases with the objective of meeting at least 50X of
the cost of annual periodic maintenance requirements
January 1, 1991, and complete a study of road user
charges by December 1, 1985. (para 2.26);
(f)  Selection of specific roads under the maintenance program
to have an estimated economic return of at least 15%.
(para 3.03);
(g)  Initiation by July 1, 1986, of an agreed action program
for the reorganization of GHA's equipment management as
well as a personnel management program. Adoption of a
plan to transfer an increasing- proportion of road
maintenance works to contractors (para 3.04).
(h) Locations and functions of GHA workshops and a timetable
for implementing the new physical and administrative
structure for managing GHA's fleet, as well as insurance
arrangements covering warehousing of spare parts. (para
3.05);
(i)  Full adoption of local competitive bidding for contract
awards after January 1, 1988 for road rehabilitation and
maintenance works managed by MHE agencies. (para 3.06);
(j)  Terms of Reference for all technical assistance.  (para
3.07);



- 27 -
(k) Training program and terms of reference for technical
assistance. (para 3.09);
(1)  Terms of Reference for PMU. (para 3.12);
(m) Details of bridge maintenance program. (para 3.13);
(n)  Pilot feeder roads program including design standards,
work methodology, terms of reference and counterpart
staffing (para 3.14);
(o)  Implementation Schedule (para 3.20);
(p)  Exempt project imports from pre-shipment price inspection
by a third party inspection firm (para 3.23);
(q)  PMU arrangements for importing fuel (para 3.24); and
(r)  Cause PMU to prepare and present to the Association for
approval quarterly work programs for GHA and DFR.
Furnish GHA and DFR the local funds to meet expenditures
for each quarter one month before the start of each
quarter (para 3.26).
5.02      The   following   are   Conditions   of   Effectiveness   and
Disbursement:
Ci) Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) Establishment of a 5 Cedis road user tax and the Road
Fund (para 2.26);
(b)  Engagement of PNU consultants (para 3.12);
(ii) Condition of Disbursement:
(a) Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and BHC for BHC sub-loans (para 3.19).
5.03      Subject to the above terms, the proposed project is suitable
for a Credit to the Government of Ghana in the amount of US$40.0 million
on standard IDA terms.
WAPT1
May                                                                    1985



- 28 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Current Status of the Ongoing
Ghana Railway Rehabilitation Project, and
Railway Traffic, 1972-83
1.       Mainly due to the physical deterioration in rail capacity,
Ghana's rail system is at present unable to carry even its own captive
traffic in manganese ore and bauxite for export. In view of the vital
importance of the railways to Ghana's mineral exports, IDA approved in
FY81 a project (Credit 1170-GE for US$29 million equivalent with
parallel financing of US$13 million from African Development Bank
(AfDB). The aim of the project is to rehabilitate the Western line
which is the principal export corridor of the country and to revitalize
management, operations and maintenance through appropriate inputs of
training and technical assistance.
2.        This project has, however, faced many implementation problems.
The project was initially delayed by about 18 months due to the change
of Government. Subsequently, project inputs have been delayed by nearly
18 to 24 months due to a complex mix of critical factors: slow
procurement, due to the time taken to train local staff in ICB
procedures; total absence of credibility in the suxpplier's community,
resulting in the dilatory process of Letters of Credit being preferred
to direct payment by the Association after certification by GCR; delays
in the issuance of import licenses; and the failure of local suppliers
to supply timber sleepers, the lack of which triggered a run-away
increase in derailments inflicting severe damage on track and vagons,
wvhich went beyond the project provision. Many of these problems reflect
the general economic political difficulties faced by the Government
during the period. However, the Government has acted positively
although belatedly, and has set up the necessary incentive framework to
encourage sleeper production and supply. The supply is still short of
targets and therefore needs to be supplemented by imports; part of these
imports is currently underway with funds reallocated within the IDA
Credit. Procurement of other Inputs are well under way. Efforts are
also being taken to mobllize some additional financing through program
type credits to accelerate the procurement of additional spare parts and
other emergency equipment. Given the generally positive attitude of the
Government, no special problems are envisaged in obtaining these
additional resources. The objectives of these efforts is to make the
Western line operationally stable by end of 1985, and thereafter start



- 29 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 2 of 2
restoring its capacity in order to progre.sively attatn the revised
project traffic projections with a slippage of about two years. 1/
3.        The delay in project completion has also led to continued need
for subsidies from Government, even though GRC successfully reduced
staff strength from 11,500 to 7,000 as agreed with the Associa%ionq and
also raised tariffs by 3501 in 1982 and 1102 in 1984. Therefore, the
project aspiration to phase out by 1986 subsidies which were about Cedis
21 million in 1983 is unlikely to materialize, and current expectations
call for an extension of this time horizon to 1988 or 1989.
Railway Freight Traffic, 1972-1983
('000 tons)
Year       Cocoa     Timber       Bauxite     Manganese    Other    Total
1972        220        476         356           467        130    1,649
1975        114        148         378           318        187    1,145
1978         68        115         266           304        134      887
1979         68        100         284           238         95      785
1980         95         64         230           260         41      690
1981         58         37          167          202         37      501
1982        106         76         109           141         42      474
1983         47         60          59           138         52      356
Source: Ghana Railway Corporation
1/ Since appraisal assumptions had changed, traffic projections were
revised, and economic viability re-examined in 1982, before project
effectiveness.
WAPT1
May 1985



- 30 -
ANNEX 2-2
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Cargo Throughput in Ghana's Ports 1970-83
('000 tons)
1970      1975      1980    1981    1982      1983
Tema
Imports       1,940     2,259     n.a.     n.a.   2,164    1,433
Exports         725       865     n.a.     n.a.      871      473
Total         2,665     3,124     n.a.     n.a.   3.035    1,906
Takoradi
Imports         566       572     n.a.     n.a.      210      193
Exports       2,250     1,429     n.a.     n.a.      417      353
Total         2,816     2,001     n.a.     n.a.      627      546
Total Freight        5,481     5,125     n.a.    n.a.   3,662    2,452
Source: Ghana Ports Authority
WAPT1
March 1985



- 31 -
ANNEX 2-3
GHANA
ROAD REHABTLITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
VLTC Traffic on Volta Lake
Year                        Cargo Tons                         Passengers
1970                           3,085                              5,553
1971                           4,898                              5,887
1972                          17,923                             14p601
1973                          28,202                             19,569
1974                          23,900                             26,480
1)75                          23,345                             30,366
1976                          21,429                             27,651
1977                          17,253                             28,704
1978                           6,551                             22,389
1979                           3,379                             29,889
1980                           4,234                             24,487
1981                           5,238                             13,040
1982                           2,972                             17,540
1983                          12,254                             53,421
Source: Volta Lake Transport Company
WAPTI
March 1985



S-.-
-32-
ANNEX 2-4
GHANA
ROAD R]MABiILITATION ANqD MIENCEPROJECT
Road Network (1984)
Trunk Roads                     Feeder
Region             Paved        Gravel         Total         Roads
Greater Accra         486            -           486            209
Volta                 639          899         1,538          1,656
Eastern             1,083          738         1,821         2,176
Cerntral              944          307         1,25-1        1,317
Western               302        1,226         1,528          1,615
Ashanti               883          525         1,408          2,718
Brong Ahago           656        1,191         1,847          1,942
- .            Northern               613        2,078         2,691         1,165
Upper                 176        1,388         1,564          1,362
TOTAL              5,782         8,352        14,134        14,160
Source: Ghana Nighvway Auithority and Department of Feeder Roads.
WAPT1
M-arch 1985



-33.-
X .EX 2-5
GHANA
'ROAD REHA3ILITATION ANiD NAINTEUANCE PROJECT
Fuel Consumpton, 1970    1983
(tons)' '
Z Change
over previous
Year       Gasoline        Diesel Fuel       Total              Year
1970      172,212          194,016          3661228
1971      190,680           199,180         389,860              +8.2
1972      199,180          214,600          413,780             +4.4
1973      200,752          219,534          420,286             +1.6
1974      210,461          216,913          427,374              +1.7
1975      227,002          233,331          460,333             +7.7
1976      239,342          238,313          477,655             +3.8
1977      228,235          295,770          524,005              +9.7
1978      256,553          278,190          534,743              +2.1
1979      216,860          265,766          482,626              -9.7
1980      241,508          276,904          518,412              +7.4
1981      255,329           275,101         530,430              +2.3
1982      249,000          201,000          450,000             -15.2
1983      181,200          187,700          368,900             -18.0
Source: Ghana Supply Commission and Quarterly Digest of Statistics,
December 1983, for years 1970-1981; Ministry of Fuel and Power
for 1982 and 1983.
WAPTI
March 1985



GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet 1979-83
Total
Private                                                                                      Excluding
Cars &                                                     Timber                             Motor-
Year    Motorcycles         Taxis       Buses    Trucks    Tippers    Tankers    Trucks    Tractors    Total             Cycles
1979       6,372          50,969       12,392      4,078      2,194        982         723        1,128       78,838    72,466 
* 1980       5,751           47,872      14,649      4,049       1,528        992        842          861       76,544    70,793   4-
1981       3,992          44,644       14,696      3,584     .1,373         553        701          688       70,231    66,239 
* 1982       5,678           50,449      16,261      3,536       1,098        633        852        19221       79,728    7,5
1983       5,233          47,649       13,918      4,032        965        515         915          940       74,167    68,934
Notes:  Figures represent numbers of privately-owned vehicles having obtained roadworthiness certificates,
and exclude Government vehicles.
Source: Ministry of Transport and Communications.
WAPTI1
M.arch 1985



-35-                        hU 2-7
Pagelof2
_____
I
I
I
-----a
'4              II
IL                r-[7 jIj
j              i1i
f U2 p
 __
II      I
-0
ii
I
I     0
Ii
I
if 
___



GHANA
New Minishy of Roods and Hlghways Organizaflon
UndetrsscXe.a:
PNDCswc etcelr 
Regbkml
Standing
Committees
|    Roands & Hlohnol    l StatGAtDcs
ChiefTechnical  |Chief Aministration|
Direrctor                                                                     Director   l
Ranng &                                                                                               R :;; 1| Stts       a                  ncince &    | nfo|  ht o |
PfogrofvningCoordinotion           & Research                 Training          Department                                i
D o paor mentn       Depart ment         Dep artmn n                  t|           |   Dpent Dep    |    |m  D eportment       Dep t men
Wid Bank-27392
WAPT1                                                                                                                                                      P
May  1985                                                                                                                                                  a    2
Msh   %J



GHANA
ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT'
ROAD CONDITIONS WITH AND WITHOUT THE PROJECT, 1985-89.
10,0-                                                                                            .                 . .
9,000-            PRESENT SITUATION (JAN. 1965)                                us,
EXPECTED SIT. AT START OF PROJECT (JAN. 198S)
2  8,000             WITHOUT PROJECT CJAN. 19)
111 WITH PROJECT (JAN. 1989)
~-7,000-                                                              740
in                        9645~~~~~~~~~~~~~~69
2 8,00054 
6, 5,000-                         4880            4818
o4,000;
i  3,6000-              2         m                          S "                        W32
gy2,0001 - | 1l       ifilill
1,000 X
GOOD                      FAIR               MODERATE TO SEVERE
FAILURE
ROAD CONDITIONS
SOURCE' BASED ON GHA ESTIMATES.
WAPTI
MARCH 1985



61WU1                                                                                UAIl 2-9
MA lf lTAlIONll AN  MINTIEMNE PROJECT
led Cndltieu  - vith and  ltioit tie  Project Ikl
(Trunk bad&)
Paved Reads (fetal 5702 kel                     Unpaved  loads (Total U52 kg)                  Total Trl k leteerk (14134  i)              ldoIrats
.. . ... ._ . ....._-_..... -  --. .......                                                                                        ------ a          ed
loderate   Severs                      M.oderate   Sevre s                                          dsrate  lSvers               Siire
16r    Fair  Fillue   Failure                    Sed       Fair  failure  Failwu                  hod      Fiair  Failwr   Fallwr              Faltrs
A. Presmet Siteatim  a/
- Positioe e,d-V14 (or Jan. 151              d6       1340      2335       741                1434     4s        2520       393                2100     5545      5355      1134               141
- Pniti. Ja."   (do nothingl                 5"       137      2712      1025                1291     3511      2140       645                I39       4913     51t2      1170               7211
- hOk Likely dvri.g 195, outside
project                                    250       -40      -120       -90                 413     -115      -230       -10                 115     -155      -400      -1o                -5
Emtin!ird load Ceo"It;es (Ju.UI            149      1347      2e52       935                1751     3411      25M0       575                2105    4u0        5212      1S1                 721
. load Conitist lltkt4t PreJKt It
Janary I"?                                171      1239      25n1      1200               150       3142      27"        31                2345      4312      5377      201                144
JuMerry  111                                in      1139      249       1451                1422     251    239          1111                2110     3990      546       25U                 gim4
Juary 1919                                 *19      1045      2411      1701               1210      253       3073      144I               lOlt    3131        54U       3115                Om
W    ;
C. Project terIbhtim  C/
ItulatinlI
First Year  (IMe1                          310         0       -20      -290                 50      -12      -335      -140                 960     -125      -405      -430               -f
Second Year 11907)                         £20         0       -40      -510                1300     -250      -770      -200                1920      -250     -I        -30                -1I73
Third Year  ,f1fl9l  di                   1035         0       -n0      -915                1950     -37      -1155      -420                25       -315    -1215    -3M                  -2U11
0. Net Position  libt PrecKt
January 1117                              1074      123t      2559       910               2230      3011      2414       191                335       4251     492       10l                 1573
Jauay 191                                   30      1139      2451       I                 2722      2601      21"        131                4030     3740      45        1701                1364
Jauary 1T19                               1154      1043      2351       732               3230      2211      1923       9N                 413      325       4214      (120                5m`4
al lead classificatio, accrding to rougness ledlcatos as follent
i11 mike)
Payed roads:   led, I ( or * 3000 Fair   3000-50001                      itpaved roads: Ieu   1   or * 3500  Fair u 3300-10
IlPFIFrl * 5090-7500  S  * abvs 7500.                                     FIPeorl * 16000-IMI I  a above 10000.
h/ lased oo the folloeing annual deterioration ratesi                                                                                                                                                                 I
Paved roaiss        to F a 11101 F to W  a I     ;II t  to S l    lIO  Ilerd roadsi I to F * 1171 F to IIF * 1171 r       te  SF   lilt 
C/ It is assumed that the wcrt Vill be ceepleted la three ytrs, thogh ia practice  on  spillover to fourth
year Is ispected. Aonel proara. may slightly chage.
di This incledes about 105 ke free Accra-lusa   il,hbilitation.  In addition, about 200 Is of roads *111 be lprved from evere
ilailure to good under other enoInl rehabiiltatlon projects.
Sourte, SlHAIIank elsleo.
May 1985



GRANA
ROAD REIABILITATION AND KAINTERANCE PROJECT
Periodic Maintenance of Trunk Roadel Performance durins 1981-84, Compered to Estimated Needs.
Teer a/          Regravelling   (km)                               Resealing   (k1)                          Resurfacing   (km)                            Ivprovement    (k m)
of                                          Z of                                       X of                                         I of
Full Needs bl   Planned Achieved  NMed.         Full Needs       Planned Achieved  Needm   Full Nead.   Planned Achieved  Needs    Full Need.  Planned Achieved t/ his.
Net ci                             Me~~~~~~~~t-                               Hot                                          met
FY81        1,485          613       573          39         1,050        289          40       4          150         69         9       6             48        20          22      46
FY82        1,600        1,325       652          41         1,066        524          62       6          155         94        27      17             52        15          16      31
1983        1,600          546       778         49          1,082        286          40       4          158         42        16      10             55        25          37      67
1984        1,612          943       672         42          1,100        204          90       a          160          4        29      18             58        24          51     88
TOTAL PERFORMANCE AS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL PERIODIC MAINTENANCE NEEDS DURING 1981-84 !l - 192
I/  FT (Financial year) va. July-June; Calendar year in use from 1983.  Adjustment period July-December 1982 omitted.
bJ  Eeitiated by GHA on the besie of CPA Maintenance Manual.
c/ Shortfall in performance in all cetegories was mainly due to budget constraints'
d/  Figures for FY8I and FY82 are rough estimtes from financial outlays and price indices tn reletion to 1983 dats.
e/  This is estinmted based on 1985 unit prices, per kn, of:  Regravelling * US$7,000 equivalent; Resealing - US$22,000;
Resurfacing - US$35,000; Improvemente - Us$65,000.
Source: GRA/Bank Hiesion
WAPTi
May 1985 
N



- 39 -
ANNEX 2-11
ROAD REHABILITATTO0  AND MWITNANCE PROJECT
Ccwernment Budget for Road Subsector. 1984
(Million Cedis)
A. GRE                                           (Jan-Dee)
(1) Capital Budget
-  Construction of Roads a/                  708.0
-  Plant, EquipeDnt. Estate. Others          245.0
Sub-total                              953.0
(ii) Developmet Budget
TRUIK ROADS
Periodic Maintenance:
-  Regravelling Trunk Roads                  190.0
-  Resealing Trunk Roads                     140.0
-  Resurfacing Trunk Roads                    45.0
-  Aspb. Couc. Overlay                        25.0
-  Drainage Structures                        45.0
-  Isprovente Works, and Others               65.0
Sub-total                              510.0
URBAN ROADS
- Regravelling
-  Resealing                                  20.0
-  Rasurfaclng                                15.0
-  Drainage Structures                        10.0
-  Improvement                                60.0
Sub-total                              105.0
(iII) Recurr nt Budget (GHA and Urban)
-  Personnel                                 136.0
-  Travelling and Transport                   14.7
-  Plant and Equipment                        24.7
-  Materials and Supplies                     28.0
-  Rent and PurchAsed Services                 9 1
-  Miscellaneous                               3.6
Sub-total                              216.1
TOTAL A                             1,784.1
B. Dept. of Feeder Roads
-  Construction                              100.0
-  Periodic Maintenance                      250.0
-  Plant and Equipment                        50.0
Sub-total                              400.0
Recurrent Budget                              55.0
TOTAL B                               455.0
Gross total                                2,239.1
*1  Mainly reconstruction/rehabilltation.
Source: GMA and DFR
WAPTi
{a-y 1985



- 40 -
ANNEX 2-12
Page f of 5
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND FUINTENANCE PROJECT
BEC Action Program
During the three-year period 1985-87 BEC will undertake the
following Action Program designed to strengthen its institutional
capabilities, particularly in the specific areas below.
General Organization
1.        Management Reinforcement.  To reinforce its existing managerial
capacity, BEC will, with assistance to be provided under the project and on
a fixed-term basis, hire and put in place not later than September 30,
1985, an operationally-oriented back-up team of experts (including
expatriates as necessary) to assist its permanent managment team in
formulating and implementing the reorganization program referred to in the
following paragraphs, and more generally in helping improve BEC's financial
management and operational efficiency. The composition, functions, and
terms and conditions of employment of this back-up team of experts will be
agreed with IDA during negotiations.
2.        Organizational Review. BEC, with the assistance of the team of
experts, referred to in the preceeding para, will undertake a detailed
review of its current organization structure, focussing upon the grouping
of functions and span of control, with the objective of improving
institutional efficiency through better communications, coordination and
controls. Specific attention will be put on the strengthening
(reorganization and staffing) of the Finance/Accounting Department, the
review and staffing of a project supervision and implementation unit, the
creation and staffing of a loan recovery unit, and the reorganization and
staffing of BBC's Project Appraisal and Internal Control Units
respectively. This exercise will be completed by January 30, 1986.
3.        Board of Directors.  By September 30, 1985, EHC and the
Government will reduce from 16 to 10 the composition of BBC's Board in
order to ensure compliance witb the BEC Decree, or alternatively will amend
the Decree accordingly. Furthermore, BEC's Board will also take
appropriate measures acceptable to IDA to ensure greater stringency in the
quality of its financial decision-making, at the Board level, in light of
BBC's current portfolio and financial problems.
4.        Recruitment, Staffing and Training.  Based upon the outcome of
the organizational review (para. 2), and in view of its current ataff
constraints, BEC, with assistance from the back-up team, will, not later
than March 30, 1986, formulate and implement (in agreement with IDA) a
three-year staffing program which will include recruitment, training,
redeployment, and where necessary, the gradual phasing out unsuLtable
staff.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2-12
Page 2 of 5
Operational Aspects
5.        Policies and Procedures.  BBC's management, assisted by the
back-up team will review existing operating policies (whether or not they
are currently being enforced) with the objective of codifying and
implementing a comprehensive set of operating policies to be approved by
BBC's Board, and serve as a guide for the institution In its activities
over the next several years. This exercise which is to be completed by
March 30, 1986, will also cover those operating procedures prepared
previously (though not completed) by the ICICI consultants, as well as such
additional procedures relating to BHC's co mmercial banking activities and
the modalities for ensuring effective coordination between comnercial and
term lending operations.
6.        Appraisal. Along with the reorganization and staffing of its
Projects Appraisal Unit (para. 2), BEC will establish standard operational
guidelines (including a detailed checklist) and formats for project
appraisal, focussing particularly upon market, technical, financial,
economic and risk analysis, with the view of strengthening project
appraisal and improving the quality of investment decisions. This exercise
is to be completed by March 30, 1986.
7.        Project Supervision.  In conjunction with the review and staffing
of its units responsible for project supervision and implementation (para.
2), BHC will formulate and codify detailed operational guidelines and
procedures (includlig standard reporting forms), to ensure the ef:ective
monitoring of all projects in BBC"s portfolio, and identifying and
recomending timely actions for potential and/or actual problem projects.
This exercise is to be completed by January 30, 1986.
8.        Sub-Loan Agreements. BEC, with the assistance of IDA, and
outside consultants, where necessary, will review BBC's entire set of
standard legal documents (e.g. loan and mortgage agreements), with the view
to ensuring the Inclusion and/or modification of relevant provisions to
protect BEC from future foreign exchange losses, as well as as provide BHC
with the legal recourse and modalities to act promptly to recover its
delinquent loans, where other courses of actions have proven ineffective.
The review and revision of these documents will be completed by September
30, 1985.
Financial Aspects
9.        Accounting & Management Information System. In addition to the
reorganization and staffing of its accounting department (para. 2), BEC
will, as part of the effort to strengthen its accounting system, and not
later than March 30, 1986, formulate and codify a detailed and complete
accounting manual starting from the basic chart of accounts, and applicable
to both term lending and commercial banking activities. This exercise will
include the design of standard accounting and reporting formats, to serve
as a basis for timely and periodic financial management information. The
design and implementation of the comprehensive accounting system (initially



- 42 -
ANNEX 2-12
Page 3 of 5
manual) will take into consideration the objective to subsequently develop
and implement an automated (computerized-mainly using micro or mini
computers) management information system over a 18-24 month period, with
the help, if necessary, of external consultants.
10.       Financial Management.  BEC's management, with the direct
assistance of the experts, will establish appropriate guidelines to ensure
the effective financial nanagement of the institution, and will recruit
such qualified staff as needed to Implement these guidelines. To that end,
BEC will undertake the following:
(a)  Conduct a comprehensive and account by account review of its
outstanding loans (including short-term credits and commercial
bank advances), guarantees and equity investments, along with the
relevant collateral security, with the view to determining their
recoverability and/or extent of likely losses. Based upon the
findings of this review, BEC will make appropriate write-offs
and/or adjustments in the level of provisions. This exercise,
beginning with BBC's June 30, 1985 accounts, will be carried out
by BECts independent auditors acceptable to IDA. and reviewed
jointly by BEC, (including the back-up team) and IDA.
(b) Not later than July 30, 1985, BEC will consult and agree with IDA
on half yearly and yearly collection targets for the 1985-86-87
period. Such targets will call for a progressive reduction in
the percentage of actual arrears and portfolio affected by
arrears to not more than 10 and 25Z respectively, inclusive of
reschedulings and capital deferments, by fiscal year end-1987.
(c) Initiate, by September 30, 1985, such intensified legal actions
as necessary for debt recovery, paying particular attention to
willful defaulters. BEC and IDA will agree on format for Joint
periodic reviews.
(d) Review with IDA and the external auditors, BHC's existing
policies for accruing and recognizing as income, interest and
other charges on both performing and non-performing loans.
This exercise to be completed by September 30, 1985.
(e) Establish acceptable guidelines to be agreed with IDA not later
than September 30, 1985, on the transformation of maturities of
short-term comercial deposits, (i.e. Agreed ratios on percent of
short-term deposits which may be prudently loaned out on term
basis).
(f) Institute within its proposed Loan Recovery Department, not later
than June 30, 1985, a system for Intensive loan recovery,
including regular billings, reminders and site visits. This unit
must work in close collaboration with BEC's legal and supervision
units.



- 43 -
ANNEX 2-12
Page 4 of 5
(g) Beginning with the June 30, 1985 fiscal year-end-accounts,
regularly prepare audit reports for submission to IDA in keeping
with IDA's Long Form Format.
(h) BHC, IDA and the Auditors to carry out, beginning with June 1985
accounts, regular yearly detailed joint review of BBC's
portfolio.
(i) Foreign Exchange Risks. Reach agreement with Government to
protect BHC from current and/or future foreign exchange risks
associated with loans made by BHC directly or on behalf of
Government including those under the previous IDA projects, as
well as any risk which may arise under the proposed IDA Project.
In this regard, the signing of the Draft Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between Government and BEC under the Third Highway
Project should be signed by June 30, 1985.
(j) Undertake, commencing with its June 30, 1985 audit, a
comprehensive and detailed review of its outstanding foreign
borrowings, as well as the respective sub-loans thereunder, with
a view to determining the extent of possible foreign exchange
risks to which BHC may be exposed, and appropriate actions to
remedy the situation, as well as prevent its recurrence. This
effort, which will be taken by BEC's independent auditor
acceptable to IDA, will also include a detailed review of the
various foreign credit, project and sub-loan agreements. On the
basis of the conclusions of this exercise, BEC and IDA will agree
on an appropriate level of provisions necessary to cover foreign
exchange losses.
(k) Financial restructuring. BEC, with Government support and in
consultation vith IDA, will undertake a major financial
restructuring with the main objectives to achieve (i) an infusion
of needed additional capital to enable BBC at a minimum to
constitute such increases as needed in provisions for portfolio
and foreign exchange losses; (ii) an adequate level of resources
to sustain its growing operating and additional borrowing needs;
(iii) a ratio of term debt to equity within prudent limits (to be
agreed with IDA) 1/; and (iv) a revaluation of fixed assets to
reflect the effects of the recent devaluations of the cedi.
Furthermore, before or by negotiations, BEC's Board and
shareholders will have completed all necessary legal and other
1/ Such a liuit should be high enough (say up to 10:1) so that in
conjunction with item (i) above, it will address the current
distortions in the financial structure and leave some margin for any
further devaluations of the Cedi in the near future.



- 44 -
ANNEK 2-12
Page 5 of 5
procedural actions required to Increase BBC's authorized share
capital to at least Cedi 750 uillion. The coopletion of the
entire restructurlng exerclse to be not later than October 30,
1985.
(a) Internal Audit & Controls. Establish an effective internal audit
and lnspection unit, adequately uanaged and staffed which would
closely supervise the accounting and banking activities of BEC.
VAPID
March 1985



.  45
ANNEX 2-13
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Transport Sector Capital Budget for 1985
(Million Cedis) a/
Possible
Base       Additional
I. Ministry of Transport and
Commmnications (MOTC)
1. Ghana iailways Corporation                 600
2. Civil Aviation                             150
3. Others                                      50
Total                            800           128  bl
II. Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH)
A. Ghana Highway Authority
Trunk Roads
1. Construction/Rehabilitation c/       1,180
2.  Periodic Maintenance                  530
3.  Plant, Equipment, Estate              130
Sub-total                      1,840
Urban
1. Construction                           110
2. Periodic Maintenance                   120
3. Plant and Equipment                     30
Sub-total                        260
B. Department of Feeder Roads (DFR)
1.  Construction                          150
2. Periodic Maintenance                   300
3. Plant and Equipment                     5C
Sub-total                        500
Total, MER                     2,600           500  b/
Total for MOTC and MER         3,400           628  bl
a/ Figures are based on the exchange rate of US$1 - 50 Cedis.
bI Distribution between sub-categories to be decided lateT.
cI Mostly construction/rehabilitation; see detalls on page 2.



46 -
AN=EX 2-13
Page 2 of 2
Proposed 1985 GRA Budget for Construction/Rehabilitation
ProJects                                Million
Cedis
Internationally Financed Projects              310
1. AxmiM-pataba-Elubo load                         60
2. Assembly Bridge Program                         25
3. Jumoro, Ankobra, Iture, Dadieso,
and Ejisu Bridges                               90
4. Yapei-Morno Road and Bridge Approaches          70
5. Bridge Development Program                      20
6. Anyiman-Knmasi Road                             45
Urgent Locally Financed Projects               565
7. Kumasi-Tepa Junction Road                      140
8. Daboase Junction-Takoradi Road                 175
9. White Volta Bridge Approaches                   70
10.Kaneshie-Mallam Road                           180
Other Projects Under Implementation            305
1I.Asukavkav Bsidge                                40
12.Nsawam lnterchange Bridge                       10
13.Ya-oransa-Assin Praso-
Anviank;anta Road                               40
14.0thers                                         215
TOTAL             1,180
Source: Government of Ghana
VAPTI
May 1985



Wmm
RAND RE1MILITATION AND MAINTENMIC PROJECT
1intertnce ,  Trunk . .d ,h.iork
lEstisated Needs aI and laecteId Annual Prograisl bi
A. Periodic IIalnt,a&nct
Total
Regravelliogt                         Aeealing                              Resotrfacleg                         lIproveumnot                   Pertiodic Ilalatimance
Year        Description                                                                                        ........ . .. . .... .-.......       ........ . ......-. . ......                                               ..
Full  Prograu         I               Full  Program         I               Full  Progras         I              Full  Program         I                Fill  Progrul      I
Needs           Covered               Needs            Covered              Needs            Covered             Reeds            Covered               lbeds           Covored
193     Lengthikel                   1628       445       29                1110      to0        16                162       40       25                 97       30        34                293       715    24
CostsIUSS,000) if        11396000  325500         29            24420000  396000         16           5670000  1400000        25            5655000  195000         34            47141000 2056500     22
1916    Length(lm)                   1641       650       40                1121      200        II                164       65        40                U         45       SI                3017      960    32 
CoutslIUSS000l           11500000  455000         40            24662000  4400000        lB           5740000  221500         40            5120000  292500         51           47S000  14)3000       30
1I97    Lnfltk(Im)                   1660       650       39                1132      200        1e                16        65       39                 39        45       51                3047      960    32
ColtsIlul;$00)           11620000  4350000        39            24904000  440000         le           5310000  227500         39            573500   2925000        51           401 11000 14150000    29
1913    Lengthibe)                   1677       650       39                1143      200        17                163       65        39                90        45       50                3071      760   '31
costsIUSS'000)           22739000  455000         39            2514600   440000         17           538000   2275000        39            5600000  292500         so           43615000 1415000      29
1939    Lengtikikm                   1694       go0       47                1154      300        26                172       30        47                92        60       65                3112     1240   40
Costs WIsOCO)0           1165300  560000          47            2533300   660000         26           M0200   210000          47            593000   3900000        45           4924600 i13900000    33
Total iv 3-year Prugrua
Unider Project 11936-N1)
Length(ke)                   4935      2950       39                3396      600        le               493       191       39                267      233        51                9142     233    32
Costs IUSSOGOl           34610100 136500          39            1471200  13200000        is          1743000   432500         39           17355000  977500         51           14436400  4245000     29
... .  ...  .... . . ..................
a/ Fill muds estiimted hosed on GM Nalriteance Nanual. Node underestieated since the short-foil In prograc coverage In one year
Is lot carried over to Rent Vea's Needs.                                                                                                                                                                                    i
b/ This tentative program vill he incroased, if wse feningl available.
c/ Costs based on following Unilt Costs in 1935 (in dollar equiivaltnt per kelt Regravellile 37,000; Reseallng 322,000;
ResurfacIng 335000;I i.proveeents 165,000.
Soweto hA and NWissios Estimutes
WIITI
Mach 1IM



r  48
ANE  3-1
Page 2 of 2
GHA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
B. Routine Maintenance: Annual Targets
Length for                     Total Cost
Year                      Maintenance                     of Program
Level of Effective            (US$'000 equivalent)
Performauce          Length
1985                     40Z             5,650              2,825
1986                     70Z             9,894              4,947
1987                     80Z             11,307             5,654
1988                     901             12,721             6,360
1989                    100Z            14,134              7,067
Notes:    Targets refer to intensive maintenance.  Costs are expressed
in 1985 unit prices, equivalent to $500 per km, of which 35Z
is local cost. Costs include wages and materials, but exclude
supervision and Head Office support and price contingencies.
The proposed project would provide equipment, tools, vehicles,
food incentives, and workshop support for the program.
Source:   GBA and Mission Estimates.
WAPT1
May 1985



-49-
ANEX 3-2
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Contractors' Eguipment Needs
1.        According to Tahal Consulting Eugineer, Ltd., the consultants
who have been providing technical assistance to the contractors and
quarry operators financed under the Second and Third Righway Projects
has made good progress in training contractors both on the job and in
seminars. Although ambitious and enterprising domestic contractors are
generally small firms with limited technical skills and need individual
help in how to figure jobs, keep track of costs, and effectively manage
their work on site. The usual size of a regravelling contract is about
20 km and they are negotiated on a lump sun basis as most contractors do
not have the capability to figure unit costs.
2.       'While some contractors have responded well to assistance, a
few have made little progress and BEC has started to seize the equipment
of non-performers and turn it over to those who are doing well and need
additional equipment. This procedure will lead to a gradual reduction
in the number of firms involved in maintenance which will result in
strengthening the remainder. Only the better performing firms will be
assisted under the project.
3.        According to Tahal, more than 60X of the contractor's
equipment is idle or canibalized due to insufficient spase parts, tires
and batteries. After selection of scraps, it appears that about 390
pieces of the existing equipment are still workable or economically
repairable. As the project will remedy the shortages of spare parts and
consumables, it is expected that contractors and quarry operators will
get most of this equipment back to work. However, a small quantity of
additional equipment will be necessary to achieve the goels of the
contractor's road works program. This additional equipment will be
distributed directly to contractors or to Plant Pool (PP), a subsidiary
of BEC.
4.        Plant Pool, is an equipment rental agency which makes
equipment available to road contractors. An assessment of PP is
contained in Attachment 1.  Attachment 2 shows the list of equipment to
be purchased for contractors, as well as equipment for PP. Equipment
held by PP can be rented out to contractors on an as needed basis as it
is now practice for small contractors to hold such experience and
infrequently used equipment such as bitumin spreaders or tractor
trailers. The fuel truck will be used by PP to improve fuel delivery to
contractors vho do not have the capability to haul their own. All of
the equipment will be procured through BEC under the contract of the
PMIJ.
WAPTI
March 1985



-50
ANNEX 3-2
Attachment I
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Plant Pool
1.        Plant Pool (PP), a subsidiary of the Bank for Housing and
Construction (BHC), was created 10 years ago. Its main purpose is to
rent earthmoving and transportation equipment to contractors or other
private customers. In addition, PP manages the storage and distribution
of spare parts acquired through BBC for private contractors carrying out
road work contracts for the Ghana Highway Authority (GRA). To
supplement its income, PP provides from time to time, service and
repairs to private cars generally belonging to customers who are hiring
equipment from PP.
2.        The total inventory of the PP fleet is 93 units of which about
one third is presently broken down. Given the average age of the fleet
(almost 10 years) and the difficulties of importing spare parts, the
present availability of equipment can be considered satisfactory.
3.        The existing facilities and equipment of PP to carry out the
maintenance of the equipment rented to contractors consist of:
i)  A central workshop located in Accra which is responsible
for general overhaul as well as major and intermediate
repairs.
(ii)  One truck mounted mobile shop to handle break down
repairs and "on site" exchange of major subcomponents to
be repaired at the Central Workshop.
(iii)  Four radio equipped pick-ups, one for each Field Service
Manager, are ahaigned to the 4 PP operating zones which
are: Zone I: Greater Accra and Volta region, Zone Il:
Central and Western regions, Zone III: Brony Ahafo,
Ashanti and Eastern regions, Zone IV: The remainder of
the country.
This division reflects the present work load distribution of PP, which
is essentially concentrated in the aouthern half of the country.
4.        The Central Workshop is located on a large yard and consists
of: a main concrete structure of about 80m x 3O" divided in 3 main
areas, the offices and aUxillary facilities, the PP spare parts store,
and the workshop facility inrluding a machlne shop, electrical shop,
velding and sheet metal shop, light vehicle and truck repairs. In



- 51 -
ANNEX 3-2
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 3
addition, opposite this building,2there is a steel frame structure
consisting of 6 bays (about 540 a ) which is the heavy equipuent
section. Located under the same roof and nixt to the heavy equipment
section there is a 3 bay store (about 270 m ) housing the spare parts
for contractor's equipment financed by BEC under the Third Highway
Project. Unfortunately, neither of these buildings is equipped with
built-in handling equipment (travelling crane). The workshop also
includes a tire-vulcanizing section located in a small separate shed, an
outdoor fenced storage area for lubricants and raw material and a
canteen. The existing facilities, including access roads and parking
areas, presently cover about 40Z of PP's total yard. ID general, the
workshop facilities are clean, adequately designed, and spacious, given
the present fleet inventory. However, several improvements are
required. Beside the lack of travelling cranes, some additional machine
tools, band-tools and special tools are badly needed.
5.        The equipment is rented to contractors with the following
services: operating personnel, and preventive and routine maintenance
including consu-mAbles and lubricants. Fuel is provided by the
customer. Rental rates are based on an 8 hour and a 5 day week. When
the equipment is hired on the same site for a long period, PP usually
provides on a permanent basis, a mechanic with a sufficient stock of
spare parts for preventive maintenance. In such cAses, lodging is
generally provided by hiring contractors.
6.        As noted above, there are two spare parts stores managed by
PP: the store housing spare parts for PP equipment (about 18,000 items,
worth approximately 16.5 million cedis, of which approximately 25Z are
dormant or slow moving stock and 5Z obsolete stock), and the store
housing spare parts for the equipment owned by the contractors working
for GRA, and financed through BEC (about 6000 items; worth approximately
6 million cedis). Given the fleet inventory of PP (about 93 units) and
of contractors (388 units) the spare parts stock of these 2 stores seems
to be badly unbalanced. Although inventory and consumption records are
not computerized, stores management seems to be satisfactory and
storekeeping procedures are adequately applied. However, in order to
improve storage capacity without additional floor space, and specially
to reduce fire risk, the present wooden shelves and bins should be
replaced by modern steel shelves in both stores.
7.        PP carries out its own spare parts procurement and does not
ultilise the services of specialized agencies like the Crown agents.
Given the present size of the PP fleet, the PP procurement procedures
while completely mnual, are satisfactory. Spare parts are only
reordered annually, because an import license is only obtained once a
year, which results in abnormal delays for spare parts supply and
equipment repairs. Reordering should be done at least twice a year in
order to keep the average availability of parts at a better and more
practical level. Given the increased worikload resulting from this
recommendation and the possible increase in the contractors and PP
fleets, a computerized system should be put into service, together with
adequate training to improve and speed up the PP store operations.



-52-                        ANNEX 3-2
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3
8.        BEC authorization iB required prior to release its spare parts
to contractors. This authorization is subject to the contractor's
financial reliability and loan-repayment situation. EBC's procurement
system is inefficient and complaints have been recorded regarding long
delays (6 to 8 mouth) between requisitions issued by GRA and orders to
suppliers issued by BEC, and lack of coordination between BIC and PP
personnel regarding delivery dates and quantity of spare parts expected
for contractor's equipment. This has resulted in shortage of spare
parts, abnormal customs clearance delays as well as in unpacking and
storage problems. The spare parts imported and distributed on behalf of
BHC are sold to the contractors at 2.05 the CTF price of which PP keeps
.23 for its services while the difference goes to BHC.
9.        PP has a total of 220 employees; their quality and
qualifications seen to be quite satisfactory. Due to higher salaries
than those paid by the civil service, and to the benefit of a
comprehensive incentive scheme, PP does not have difficulty in hiring
and retaining competent personnel. The Managing Director and the Heads
of Department receive free housing.
10.       The aging PP fleet should be completely renewed over the next
6 years by which time the equipment age will average 15 years old. If
the present fleet is not renewed, the survival of PP seems unlikely
since equipment maintenance costs will continue to Increase without
corresponding rental increases, and the demand will slow due to poor
reliability. This deteriorating process has already started. Another
problem facing PP is that parts are sold to contractors in Cedis While
equipment maintenance requires spare parts of which importation is
subject tc Government "Import licence". Presently the gap between needs
and "import licences" is about US$700,000.
11.       In order to better plan equipment acquisition and
standardisation, the P!IU will supervise the selection and procurement of
equipment. Given the present situation and capacity of PP. it is
estimated that an increase of about 301 of its equipment fleet can be
supported with only small investments in terms of equipment and storage
facilities provided that the increased activity remains concentrated in
the southern part of the country. Of the improvements recommended above
only the shelving units are included in the project.
12.       Given the depressed economical environment, PP performs well,
and will continue to have an importantrole in assisting small
contractors who dco not need on a full time basis certain types of
equipment such as bulldozers, tractor trailers, bitumin spreaders and
fuel tankers.
March 1985
WAPT1



- 53 -
AM=EX 3-2
Attachment 2
GEANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
A. Equipment to Be Purchased for Contractors
(in U.S. Dollars)
Quantity                 Type                Unit Cost            Total
9            Motor Graders (125HP)       70.000           630,000
7            Wheel Loaders (IOOHP)       50,000           350,000
23            Vibrating Rollers           40,000           920,000
48            Tipper Trucks (5+8M3)       35,000          1,680,000
11            Water Tankers               30,000           330,000
23            Water Pumps                  1,000            23,000
9            Pick-up Trucks              10,000             90,000
Sub-Total         4,023,000
About 10% Spare Parts            376,000
Total         4,400,000
B. Equipment to Be Purchased for Plant Pool
3             Bulldozers (140HP)         100,000            300,000
5             Bitumen Distributors        50,000           250,000
2             Tractor-Trailer Units       75,000            150,000
4             Fuel Tankers (8,000 LT)    35,000             140,000
1             Multi-Purpose Crane (20T) 150,000            150,000
Sub-Total           990,000
About lOZ Spare Parts            100,000
Total         1,090,000
WAPT1
May 1985



- 54 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTEWNACE PROJECT
Training Program
1.        The few existing MRH/GHA/DFR senior level staff are generally
capable, but low- and middle-level personnel, where they exist, are not
always sufficiently trained and often use inefficient work methods. All
current GRA/DYR training activities are planned by GRA's Training
Division which was established under the Second Highway Project.
Although GEA's Training Division activities have been hampered by a
severe shortage of staff, instructors, training equipment and recurrent
funds, the Division has occasionally managed to organize short refresher
and promotion course for road foremen, overseers and technical officers
at the Shal Hill Training Center by using existing staff as part-time
instructors. Because of the lack of maintenance and the fact that it
was constructed on unsuitable terrain (earthquake zone) the Center is in
a very poor condition with most of the buildings showing dangerous
cracks on the floors, walls and ceilings. Although it has some
audiovisual training aids and a few audiovisual courses prepared by
previous consultant training specialists, the Center has little or no
basic furniture, training equipment, workshop equipment and tools. A
considerable amount of money would be required to rehabilitate the
Center and even so it may not be worthwhile since training of most road
maintenance personnel would be carried out in the field .--id at the CMW.
The training activities developed by GEA over the last several years
would be substantially strengthened and expanded under the project to
include also the training of MRE and DFR personnel.
2.        The objective of the training program is to strengthen the
institutional capability of GRA to prepare, implement and supervise
training courses to improve the skills of maintenance personnel of GEA
and DFR at all levels. The program is designed for eventual training
some 1600 GRA/DFR maintenance engineers, road superintendents, foremen
and overseers, equipment operators, drivers, mechanics, storekeepers and
cost clerks engaged in road and equipment maintenance operations
(Attachment 1). In the first two years (1987-88) about 200 peronnel
will attend training courses, and 150-200 annually thereafter. The
training program includes: (i) the setting up of a Training Steering
Commlttee (TSC) under MMH leadership; (ii) the strengthening of GRA's
Training Division; (iii) the establishment of a Road Training Production
Unit (RTPU) under GEA for the training of road supervisors and equipment
operators/drivers; (iv) the setting up of a Mechanical Training
Production Unit (IMPU) under GHL for the training of mechanical
personnel; (v) the purchasing of training equipment and materials; (vi)
the recruitment of training specialists and instructors; (vii) the
training of GEH counterparts and instructors; (viii) the organization of
periodic seminars and other special courses for middle- and high-level



- 55 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 3
maintenance staff through TSC; and (ix) training abroad (fellowships,
international seminars/conferences) for selected MRH/GHA/DFR staff.
3.        Training of road supervisors (superintendents/foremen/
overseers), equipment operators and tipper drivers would be carried out
mostly in the field by adopting a system of training through production.
A RTPU would be set up to conduct training while, at the same time,
carrying out maintenance/rehabilitation operations on specific gravel
road sections within GHA's annual maintenance program. The RTPU would
be, in effect, a smaller version of the nMU but operating on gravel
roads. The trainees assigned periodically to the RTPU would be trained,
therefore, under actual working conditions.
4.        Training of mechanics would be conducted, mostly at MPTU in
the COW in Accra. In addition to some general theoretical courses, the
training of mechanical staff would focus on the repair of broken
equipment nmder the supervision of experienced mechanical instructors,
thus enhancing GHA/DFR's equipment maintenance capabilities and raising
their level of equipment availability. GHA would be required to provide
adequate spare parts for the training of mechanics throughout the
duration of the program. All contracts for equipment
suppliers/manufacturers would include provision of the services of
technicians to train selected equipment operators and mechanics on
operation and maintenance of new equipment.  Suitable national training
institutions such as the Accra Technical Training.Center (ATTC) would be
contacted and an agreement reached on courses which would be conducted
by them.
5.        Since the Shai Hill Training Center is unsuitable in its
present condition, limited essential physical trainling facilities would
be built at the CMW including one workshop, one classroom and a few
small offices for the instructors. A small dormitory would be needed,
and a decisiou should be reached with GHA as to its location. As an
interim solution, a hostel would be rented in the vicinity of the CMW
until a suitable site is found near the C0W for the construction of a
permanent dormitory. A study would be made by GUA to determine whether
there is a need in Ghana of a school for equipment operators and drivers
and, if so, whether the terrain on which the Shai Hill Center is located
is appropriate for such a school.
6.        Training equipment and materials varying from road maintenance
equipment such as a motor grader, a loader, a roller and tipper trucks
to workshop equipment, tools, spare parts and audiovisual training aids,
would also be provided under the project. All the training activities
would be coordinated by GHA's Training Division which would be assisted
on a full-time basis by an expatriate training adviser and five
specialists/instructors during the first two years of the program.
During the remainuig year of the project, training specialists would be
provided on an intermittant basis, as needed. About 110 u-u of
technical assistance would be provided. Additional support would be
provided from the Ghanaian private sector, until GRA is able to assign
counterparts, as well as 9 technicians/assistant instructors. GRA and



- 56 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 3 of 3
local specialists/instructors would work closely with the expatriate
training specialists/instructors and it is expected that they would take
over in 1989, after the full-time expatriate staff assignment is
completed, to follow up and consolidate action taken during the first
two years of the program.
7.        GHA equipment management consultants will manage training of
mechanical and store personnel under the coordination of GRA's Training
Division. Training of cost clerks would be carried out under the
guidance of the accountant assigned to PMU.
8.         Cost estimates for the training program and Terms of
Reference for training assistance are provided in Attachment 2, and
Working Paper No. 4 respectively.
WAFT1
May 1985



- 57 -
Annex 3-3
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
-ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Number of Personnel to be Trained
Description/Level                        Number
I. Ministry of Road | Highways (MRH)
A.  (1)  Engineers                                3
(2)  Administration                          2
(3)  Finance                                 2
(4)  Public Relations                        1
Sub-Total           8
II. Ghana Highway Authority (GHA)
B. Road maintenance
(5)  Senior Civil Engineers                 17
(6)  Civil Engineers                        13
(7)  Road Superintendents                   51
(8)  Road Foresan                          115
(9)  Road Overseers                        160
356
C. Equipment Operators
(10) Heavy Equipment Operators              120
(11)  Light Equipment Operators             300
420
D. (12)  Tippers Pick-Up. Etc.                  180
E. Mechanical Division
(13)  Mechanical Engineers                    9
(14)  Engineering Technicians                15
(15)  Technical Officers                     16
(16)  Storekeepers (CMW)                     15 -
(17)  Tradesmen (Mech)                       91
(18)  Stores Accounting                      15
(19)  Artisans (Mech)                       228
389
Sub-Total       1,345



-58 -
5Anne  3-3
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
Description/Level                        Number
III. Department of Feeder Roads (DFR)
B. (20)  Civil Engineers                          8
(21)  Engineering Technicians                 7
(22)  Planner                                 1
(23)  Quantity Surveyors                      2
(24)  Mechnical Engineer                       1
(25)  Senior Tech. Officers (Surveys)        16
(26)  Senior Tech. Officers (Design)         12
(27)  Senior Tech. Officers (Quantities)    10
(28)  Technical Officers                     16
(29)  Technical Assistants                   11
(30)  Works Superintendents                   2
(31)  Foremen                                10
(32)  Road Overseers                        108
(33)  Operators                              43
Sub-Total         247
I.  MBH                                               8
-I.  GHA                                           1,345
II.  DFR                                             247
TOTAL            1,600
Source: MRH, GHA, DFR
May 1985



5 59 -
ANNEX 3-3
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
ROAD REEABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Three-Year Tineslice of Training Program
Cost Estimates (US$)
1.       Civil Works                                  Local     Foreign
(i)   One classroom, 40 m2, at US$400 per m2       8,000       -8,000
(ii)    One workshop 180 m2, at US$380 per m2      34,000      34,000
(iii)    One dormitory, 120 m2, at US$460 per a2
(Including sanitary facilities)            28,000      28,000
(iv)    One office block, 100m at US$420 per i2
(to house 1 senior instructor, 2 mech.
instruc or, 1 secretary, one room for
zerox/duplicator, one small store)         21,000      21,000
=v)    Furniture and equipment for (i) to
(iv) above.                                25,000      25,000
Sub-Total  (1)                             96,000      96,000
2.       Training Equipment and Materials
a)    Road Maintenance Equipment (RTPU)
1)    1 Motor Grader                                          70,000
(ii)    1 Front-End-Loader                                     60,000
Ciii)    1 Bulldozer                                           100,000
(is)    1 Vibr. Roller                                         40,000
Cv)    1 Water Tanker                                         30,000
(vi)    4 Tipper Trucel-s                                     120,000
(vii)    1 Mobile Workshop                                      50,000
Cviii)  MHiscellaneous (hsnd compactors/
Water pumps)                                           20,000
(ix)    Initial stock of fast moving parts
(about 10%)                                            50,000
540,000
b)    CMW Training Center for Mechanics CMTPU)
(i)   Workshop Equipment                                      50,000
(ii)    Mechanical Tools                                        4,000
Uiii)    Spare Parts  a!                                      -(200,000)
a/   US$200,000 for spare parts included in the GHA. category for spare
parts will be allocated to training.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3-3
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 3
c)    Training Courses/Aids
(i)   Audio Visual Aids                                        5,000
(ii)    Special Audiovisual Courses                            15,000
d)    Temporary Accomodations
(i)    Military Tents                                          5,000
(ii)    2 Mobile Homes                                         30,000
e)    University Science and Technology
(i)    Soils Laboratory, Computer and
Photography Equipment, Technical
Books and Publications                                100,000
Sub-Total (2)                              10,000     749,000
3.       Transportation
a)    2 Mini buses                                           24,000
b)    3 Vehicles                                             36,000
c)    Spare Parts (about 15Z)                                10,000
Sub-Total (3)                               3,000      70,0C0
4.       Training Specialist/Instructors
a)    Technical Assistance (expatriate)
vi)    Traimnng advisor, 13 months at
Us$10,000 per month                                   130,000
-ii)    Chief RTPU, 22 months, at US$9,000 per
month                                                 198,000
(iii)    Chief MTPU (workshop manager)  b/
iv)    Mechanical instructor, 22 months at
US$6,000 per month                                    132,000
Cv)    Instructor equipment operator, 22 months at
US$6,000 per month                                    132,000
(vi)    Instructor road maintenance, 22 months at
US$6,000 per month                                    132,000
(vii)    Short term specialists (9 months)                      76,000
110 m-m Technical Assistance              80,000      800,000
b/  Supplied under technical assistane-e for GHA equipment management.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3-3.
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 3
b)    Equipment Manufacturers/Suppliers
Technical Training for:
(i)   Equipment Operators                            N/C         N/C
(ii)    Mechanics                                     N/C         N/C
c)    Local Trainers and Instructors             50,000
d)    National Trainilng Institutions
Such as AIT                                20,000         -
Sub-Total (4)                             150,000     800,000
5.       Per Diem (Incentive)  c/
a)    GBA - 520 T x 70 days x $2.60              95,000          -
b)    DFR -- 80 T x 70 days x $2.60              15,000
Sub-Total (5)                             110,000         -
6.       Operation of RTPU
Spares, fuel, materials
Sub-Total (6)                             170,000     130,000
7.       Training Abroad (Fellowships, International
Conferences/Seminars)
a)    16 selected officers from GHA for short
visits/attacbments (about US$5,000 each)               80,000
b)    Conference/Seminars                                     30,000
c)    6 Engineers for one academic year
including visits/attachments (about
US$20,000 each)                                       120,000
Sub-Total (7)                                 -       230,000
GRAND TOTAL                               539,000   2,075,000
Source: Mission Estimates
WAPT1
May 1985
c/   Funds for counterparts/instructors included.



62
ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
ROAD RERAB IlTATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Food Incentive Program
1.        Improvement in the productivity and efficiency of MRH and its
agencies is crucial for the success of the proposed project as well as
for the economic recovery of the country. In addition to the acute
shortage of spare parts and the resulting poor availability of highway
maintenance equipment, insufficient food diet, and salaries and wages of
GHA.DFR employees below or at the subsistance level rank as one of the
main causes of unsatisfactory performance in the highway sector. The
Government has committed itself to stringent measures to reduce
inflation and, accordingly, increases in salaries and wages have been
restrained. It is therefore indispensable to design an incentive
program that, at least in part, compensates for the present grossly
inadequate income. In this regard, there is already positive experience
with a food-for-work program.
2.        Despite its heavy commitment of food aid to Ghana (about US$72
million worth of food has already been comnitted in 1984 for the staff
and workforce of railways and ports in Ghana and for the employees in
the Cocoa Sector and other areas), the World Food Program (WFP) has
agreed to extend the food aid program to employees of MRE and its
agencies. The total coat of WFP food aid under the project. required
for a period of three years, is estimated at US$8.1 million including
price contingencies, cost of shipping, insurance, freight and wiF
supervision, for a period of about three years. The program will cover
about 11,000 employees. This program will be amalgamated with the
already approved aid program for the ports and railways personnel (about
15,000 employees). The US$8.1 million of food aid is included in the
pToject costs.
3.        Within the framework of Ghana's recovery and stabilization
programs with the help of the Bank and the Fund, the food aid is
expected to provide MRH and its agencies: (a) sufficient food intake for
employees and their families; (b) an incentive for the workers to
increase their productivity and reduce absenteeism; and (c) assistance
to the Government in controlling inflation by increasing real income and
prosperity through food aid without increasing salaries.
4.        The most important impact of the food aid program is likely to
be in revitalising routine maintenance of the road system which is
highly labour intensive and which has nearly ceased to be effective
because of absenteeism and low productivity of departmental labour. In
order to link the food aid with increase in productivity, MRH and Its
agencies will establish norms for food distribution together with



63-                      ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 2
practlcal performance targets. The distribution of "food for work" vlll
be based on three members in a rypical family. The norms and targets
will Include eliuinating absenteeism and improving punctuality,
maintaining order and discipline at all levels, and achieving
pre-established performance goals for maintenance functions in workshop,
stores, highways and related activities. Penalties, by way of
withholding food aid from workers who are absent and show poor
performance vithout reasonable explanation, will also be applied. MRE
and its agencies will finalize these norms before the food aid start
arriving in Accra and in no case later than September 30, 1985, and will
be responsible for storing and distributing food across the country.
The project will finance purchase of 18-5 ton trucks for GHA for food
distribution. A 20-ton crane, supplied by Plant Pool, will be needed
for moving containers.
5.        The items that will be included in the food aid would be rice,
vegetable oil, canned fish, sugar and dried milk which are either not
produced or produced in a very small quantity in Ghana and for which the
demand is very high. Consequently, the food aid would not compete with
local products and would not cause market displacement. It would
represent additional consumption as supplementary to local staples
thereby reducing minteral and protein deficiency, improving health of
staff and family and helping increase productivity.
WAPT1
May 1985



- 64 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 6
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Management Unit
Terms of Reference
A. Background
1.        The Government of Ghana has conceived a Fourth Highway Project.
The project is designed to contribute to the Government's economic
recovery programe by removing road transport bottlenecks to the vital
export/import programe and the movement of domestic farm outputs and
inputs. The objectives of the project are: (a) to strengthen the road
agencies under the Ministry of Roads and Highways (HRE) and revitalize
road maintenance operation through support of increased private sector
participation and introduction of improved management in Ghana Highway
Authority (GRA) and Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) coupled with staff
incentives and systematic training programme; (b) to reduce transport
costs and protect Ghana's large past and future investments in the road
sub-sector through lmproved maintenance; (c) to rehabilitate part of the
most important trunk road in the country; (d) to foster the
rehabilitation and recovery of the agricultural sector through
improvements to access in rural areas; (e) to improve transport planning
and to reorient transport investment through increased emphasis on
rehabilitation and maintenance and (f) to assist in the rationalization
of transport policies, including adjustment of road user charges, thus
ensuring better mobilization and utilization of resources. To assist in
the the development of domestic contractors, they would be given
sub-loans by the World Bank through the Bank for Housing and Construction
(BEC) for the procurement of complementary equipment and spares. In view
of the need for close collaboration between GRA and BHC in connection
with the development and support of a local road contractors, quarry
operators and further, because of the number of parties, in addition to
GMA and BBC, concerned with the project's implementation and financing -
Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRM), Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning (MOF), Department of Feeder Roads (DFR), local and foreign
contractors and the co-financing agencies - a Project Management Unit
(PMI) is to be established under the Fourth Highway Project with
technical assistance support.
B. Objectives
2.        PMU -will provide the project with overall coordination,
direction where applicable and monitoring services with special emphasis
on:
(i)  assisting withu MMRE in defining and carrying out its
functions. under the Monitoring and Evaluation Department
of the Ministry;



- 65 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 6
(ii)  strengthening of local road contractors and quarries;
(iii) procurement of goods for project execution;
(iv) developing costing and accounting procedures of agencies
under MEI (GEA, DFR and DUR); and
(v) management of project accounts in coordination with
related executing agencies and co-financiers.
C. Scope of Work
3.        PNU shall be an autonomous unit as far as its management and
coordinating functions are concerned, although PMU's activities will
involve several units of NRH and its agencies, as vell as BHC. PHU will
be attached to MRH for administrative purposes. The responsibilities of
PMU are detailed below.
4.        For local road contractors and quarry operators provide
technical and managerial assistance in particular to those assisted by
BHC under the Second, Third, and Fourth Highway Projects in developing
their ability to:
Ci) prepare bids in accordance with bid documents and
specifications;
(ii) prepare work programs;
(iii) execute works in accordance with specifications;
(iv) measure and present invoices on work done;
(v) prepare timely costing of operations and the firm's
accounts;
(vi) change work rates because of devaluations and price
increases;
(vii) Improve quarry productivity.
5.        Train local contractors and quarry operators in equipment
management. Training courses to be coordinated with Plant Pool and local
agents towards development of good equipment practices and operations.
6.        Train local contractors and quarry operators in business
management. Training courses to be coordinated with NRH organizations and
BEC for development of various skills required for efficient site and
office management.
7.        Investigate the state of quarry equipment (Government and
private) and identify needs for rehabilitation and additional equipment,
mnd the need fo, mobile crushing plant to support road works.



- 66 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 3 of 6
8.        For executing organizations under the project facilitate
procurement of equipment, spare parts and supplies financed under the
project including preparation of bidding documents and specifications,
bid evaluation, recomendation for contract awards, and ordering of goods
after receiving relevant authorizations. PHU will also advise GEA in
carrying out similar tasks, as requested, for the Accra Urban Road Unit.
Procurement arrangements are to be in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines for Procurement; cost effectiveness and efficiency, should be
the main criteria in selection of sources for procuring goods.
9.        By December 1, 1986, prepare conditions of contract for works
under ICB and LCB procedures, ICB procedures to conform to World Bank
guidelines and LCB procedures to be a simplified version of those for
ICB, suitable for s-All road contracts. Hold public seminars on
interpretation of the procedures.
10.       Investigate and evaluate present Government procedures relevant
to the public work sector concerning prequalification of contractors,
biddiug and awarding of contracts, payment procedures of contractors'
invoices, procurement of equipment and spare parts for existing
equipment, and imported material, including tax regulations, duties and
payment procedures. Make recommendations for improvements..
11.       Analyze and evaluate the influence of national economic
conditions of policies (tariffs, taxes and credit) on the road
construction industry and the environment in which it operates.
12.       Based on present and future supply and demand of road works, as
plAnned by Government, evaluate present status and Government planned
development of the road contracting industry with regard to contractors'
financial situation, availability of capital and credit, in both local
and foreign currencies, inventory of equiDment, and subcontracting
activity, technical assistance and any other data required to evaluate
the industry.
13.      Analyze and evaluate the structure and operation of the labour
market, marketing of construction materials, supply of spare parts and
servicing of construction equipment and other operational topics relating
to the contractors' performance.
14.       By June 1. 1986, prepare indices and formulae for systematic
price adjustments of work items normally carried out by road contractors;
collect data on indices and set out procedures for regular publication.
15.       By Karch 1, 1986, assist  HRE in consultation with its agencies
and BHC, in establishing a register of local contractors for road works,
based on a sufficient number of financial categories to satisfy the work
programs of Government agencies involved in road construction and
maintenance. Set out procedures for updating the register, which should
be computerized.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 4 of 6
16.       By December 1, 1985, develop an appropriate pricing system,
acceptable to BBC and Plant Pool, for goods purchased under the project
for the local contractors and quarries.
17.       By January 1, 1987, propose procedures for initiating
competitive bidding of road improvement and maintenance contracts under
GHA and DFR which would be instituted for all contracts to be awarded
after January 1, 1988.
18.       Assist MRE agencies and BEC to develop and institute sound and
efficient procurement procedures for works and supplies.
19.       Prepare model specifications for plant, equipment and vehicles
for MRH agencies, BRC, Plant Pool and road contractors and quarry owners,
in order to enable standardization of units wherever possible.
20.       Coordinate the operation of the revolving funds under the
project and the maintenance of appropriate accounting records therefore.
21.       Coordinate disbursement requests for the various co-financing
agencies, monitoring such record keepirn as may be required by those
agencies.
22.       The Financial Manager will be responsible for coordinating and
supervising all finaucial operations of PHU and for training MRE and its
agencies in accounting and costing. His specific duties will include the
following:
(a) supervise and manage operations of revolving funds, maintain
proper accounts for the Special Account and sub accounts for
GRA, BHC and DER and control the disbursements of various
cofinanciers.
(b) assume responsibility for maintaining proper records and
supporting documents for SOE's prepared by BBC, GRA and DFR and
the withdrawal applications under the project.
(c) maintain up to date records for procurement commitments and
dlsbursement and periodically reconcile with the cofinanciers
accounts and the bank statements on Special Accounts.
(d) improve GHA and DFR road maintenance cost accounting, help
improve the information reporting system and ensure that cost
accounting is adequately integrated with financial accounting.
(e) assist in establishing uniform accounting and costing records
within MMR and its organization.
(f) train the local counterpart staff of MER and its agencies with
the objective that they would be able to sustain the system on
their owue after the departure of the consultant. The areas of
training will cover all of the PM2 related operations and cost



- 68 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 5 of 6
accounting for workshops and road maintenance and quarry
operations.
23.       Prepare and implemnt a monitoriug system for measuring
progress under the project covering all components.
24.       Prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Eighway
Proji.ct by March 1986, in accordance with World Bank guidelines.
25.       Prepare a similar PCR for the Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project two months before the completion of the Project
Manager's assignment, which would evaluate the impact of the project also
taking into account the achievements and problems experienced under the
Second and Third Projects.
26.       PMU will carry out on-the-Job training and run demonstrations
and seminars for all aspects covered by PMU's functions. A detailed
training program will be submitted for approval by February 1, 1986.
D. Staffing
27.       The professional staff required for PMU have to be good
communicators. PMU staff would be required to have the following
qualifications and experience, including previous experience in
Sub-Sahara Africa.
(i) General Manager (3 years) - A senior civil engineer of
proven managerial ability with past experience in the
direction of major civil works projects and/or highway
agencies.
(11) Mechanical Engineer (1 year) - a mechanical engineer with
broad practical experience in the selection, operation,
maintenance and costing of owning and operating road
construction and quarry equipment and vehicles.
(iii) Procurement Manager (1 year) - an engineer/manager with
extensive experience in international contracting and
procurement of goods for road construction.
(iv) Contractor Adviser (3 years) - a civil engineer
experienced in civil works site management, costing,
bidding and quality control.
(v) Quarry Specialist (9 months) - a quarry operator with
extensive experience in quarry management and selection of
suitable methods and equipment for winning materials for
the production of road aggregates.
(vi) Financial Manager (3 years) - professionally qualified
accountant with substantial experience in financial



- 69 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 6 of 6
management of construction firms and highway agencies,
preferably with knowledge of procedures of international
lending agencies.
28.       The above staff would be supported in each position by
qualified but not necessarily experienced Ghanaians except for an
Assistant Manager who should have experience in direction of civil works
projects and/or highway agencies.
29.       In addition to the professional staff PMU will have a basic
staff of administrative and clerical personnel to maintain the
appropriate financial progress and monitoring records related to the
tasks assigned to PMU.
E.        Reports
30.       PMU will prepare and submit to MRH, GRA, DFR and BBC a draft
Inception Report within three months of coamencing the assignment,
defining in detail the tasks to be carried out during the three-year
period. The comments of the above agencies will be given within fifteen
days and the final report submitted to the World Bank and other
cofinanciers (3 copies each) together with the comments by the end of the
fourth month.
31.       Quarterly Progress Reports, including performance indicators to
monitor progress of the various components under the project, will be
submitted to the above agencies within 15 days of the end of each
calendar quarter. Comments from the agencies will be given within 15
days and the reports and coments submitted to the World Bank and other
cofinanciers (3 copies each) by the end of the month after each quarter.
WAPT1
March 1985



- 70 -
ANE  3-6
Page 1 of 2
GHIAN
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Bridge Rehabilitation Program
1.       The preparatory work under this component was financed by the
PPF, and consisted of: (i) completing an inventory of the country's
bridges; (ii) preparing feasibility studies for about 1,000 m of high
priority bridges; (iii) preparing detailed engineering and bidding
documents for 500 to 600 m of the highest priority bridges; and
(iv) evaluating of GHA. inspection and maintenance procedures, including
the preparation of a technical maintenance manual for the use of GHA.
The work was satisfactorily completed by consultants Tahal Consulting
Engineers, Ltd. (Israel) in 1983.
2.        Tahal updated its study in late 1984 to provide latest cost
and economic data. It recommended the repair of 11 existing bridges,
the construction of nine new bridges and the conversion of a rail bridge
to road traffic, further design and supervision of the foregoing and a
bridge maintenance program to strengthen the bridge division of GRA.
3.        Because of funding limitations, the scope of the bridge
program has had to be reduced to the repair of 11 existing bridges, and
the construction of three new bridges to replace existing structures all
as identified below. A fourth new bridge, at Anyinam is included in the
Anyinam-Kumasi road rehabilitation works. The cost of the repair works
averages somewhat over US$100,000 per bridge while the construction
averages less than US$1 million per bridge. Tahal has completed the
detailed engineering and the tender docurents, and will be responsible
for works supervision, under its existing contract witb GE. Bidders
are now being prequalified. The work will be carried out under one or
more contracts which are expected to be awarded by the end of 1985. The
work is expected to take two years to complete.
4.        The project also includes the strengthening of GEA's Bridge
Maintenance Unit (BMU) including 20 m-m of technical assistance, and the
following equipment:



- 71 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 2 of 2
Unit Cost        Total
Bridge Maintenance Unit
- 1 Pickup (2x4)                         10              10
- 2 Pickup (4x4)                         15              20
- 2 Tipper Trucks (4m3)                  25              50
- 1 Flatbed Truck (lOt) &
3t Crane                               60              60
- 2 Towed 3 Wheel Air Comp.
(250 cfu)                              25              50
- I Towed 4 Wheel
Concrete Mixer Set (200LT)              8               8
- 2 Towed 4 Wheel Water Tanks
(250 gal.)                              2               4
- 1 Pedestrian Vibrating
Compactor                              10              10
- 1 Tractor (651P) & Trailer             15              15
- 1 10 KVA Generator-Towed
4-Wheel                                 6               6
- Miscellaneous                          LS              40
SUBTOTAL            283
Initial Stock of Spare Parts              27
TDTAL            310
List of Bridges to be Repaired
Road Number *                 Bridge Number *              Region
4                             15                    Ashanti
4                             11                    Ashanti
1                         8.9,10                    Greater Accra
13                              1                    Greater Accra
3                              1                   Volta
2                             30                    Upper
2                             32                    Upper
412                              1                    Eastern
461                              2                    Ashanti
List of Bridges to be Reconstructed
43                              1                    Eastern
6                             19                   Northern
1                             11                   Greater Accra
* Reference: Feasibility study of First Priority Bridges, Tahal, May
1983.
WAPTI
may 1985



- 72 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 5
.     ~GUN
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENIANCE PROJECT
Pilot Feeder Roads Program
A. ObJectives
1.         The long term objective of the feeder road program  is to:
pLau, improve and maintain the Ghana feeder roads network based on
technical and socio-economic criteria, applying low cost-effective
solutions to actual rural area access needs and relying to a such larger
extent than presently on local resources in order for the development to
be sustainable.
2.        The program's immediate objectives are to:
(a) support rural area activities in the Western, Ashanti and
Brong Ahafo regions, and in particular in the Sefwi Wiawso
District within the Western Region;
(b)  develop and implement guidelines for planning, improving and
maintaining the feeder roads system, and increase the local
capacity thereof; and
(c) develop and liplemnt work methods for improvement and
maintenance of feeder roads involving a decreasing use of
foreign resources and an increasing use of local resources
including local un- or under-employed labor.
B. Project Description
3.        To achieve these objectives, the following sub-components have
been agreed:
(a) Improvement, using mainly labour-based methods, of about 200
km of feeder roads by contract mainly in the Sefwl Wiawvo
District;
(b)  spot Improvements to eliminate transport obstacles, inadequate
drainage, and steep slippery gradients on about 700 km of
feeder roads In the Western, Ashanti and Brong Ahafo regions;
(c) maintenance of 2000 km of feeder roads in the three regions
under (b) above; and



- 73 -
ARNEX 3-7
Page 2 of 5
(d) technical assistance: (i) to DFR for implementation of the
pilot program and (ii) to local contractors and force account
crews in using a balanced mix of labor and equipment.
C. Improvement of Feeder Roads (Sefwi Wiawso District)
4.        In the past, feeder roads have been constructed to excessive
geometric standards. Widths have generally been about 10 m, although
recent designs were reduced to 7 m.  Experience has clearly demonstrated
that these roads are much more difficult and costly to maintain than
narrower roads, and some years after their constrnction they are
generally passable to vehicles over the width of one lane only. In
other cases. vehicles cannot pass at all, or in the dry season only.
DFR is fully aware of geometric standards being excessive and
improvements carried out under the project would limit widths to four
and six meters depending on traffic level<. with provision for surface
gravelling only where needel to obtain adequate accesstbility and/or
avoid excessive subsequent maintenance costs. Under ne project the
entire national feeder road network would be classif-td and geometric
standards, justifiable by traffic levels, determined or future road
construction and improvement.
5.        It is envisaged in the three year implementation period
(1986-1988) to improve about 240 km of feeder roads under the project.
The first year of the program would be considered a training period
along about 40 km of roads in order to instruct interested contractors
in carrying out rational and substainable methods and procedures for
improving feeder roads. During the second and third year construction,
by contract, about 200 km of roads will be uncertaken in the District of
Sefwi Wiawso. Some works may be carried out in other regions.
6.        For the first year program, simple engineered projects,
including bills of quantities, pertinent drawings, estimated sunit costs
and costs by road section, simplified technical speci'ications and
conditions of contract would be completed, to a large extent, by the
time of loan negotiations. The contractors would be obliged to use a
balanced mix of labor and equipment-intensive operations. For many work
operations manual methods appear highly competitive from a financial
point of view and much more so in economic terms. Thus, the contract
documents would specify operations which are to be carried out by labor.
Because of the difficulty and lack of experience in estimating a fair
unit rate, contractors may in initial contracts carry out some tasks on
a day-work schedule in order to subsequently calculate fair rates; other
rates would be set by DFR and negotiated with the contractors during the
training period. From January 1, 1988, competitive bidding-procedures
would be introduced in all contracts.
7.        Presently contracts are awarded somewhat subjectively based on
contractors past performance without tendering. Payment is based on a
bill of qgKntities priced by DFR using standard rates. The local
contracting industry is generally not sufficiently mature to engage in
estimating the individual unit rates as a basis for their bids. After



- 74 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 3 of 5
January 1. 1988, contractors would be prequalified, based on usual
criteria as vell as satisfactory participation on the training works,
and requested to bid a plus or minus percentage applied to all bill
items for which DFR would have estimated a rate based on work methods
specified in the bidding documents and demonstrated during training.
All improvement works under the project are expected to be carried out
by about four local contractors.
8.        Contractors would be encouraged to repair their existing light
equipment through the provision of spare parts under the project.
Essential equipment would be procured under the project for firms
awarded contracts, and some units would be assigned to Plant Pool, which
would rent them, on a priority basis, to the contractors under the
program.
C. Spot Improvements (Western, Ashanti and Brong Ahafo Regions)
9.        ifany feeder roads presently have a poor level of accessibility
which constrains economic and social activities. Often the reason is
that short subsections or specific points of the road present one or
several of the following problems: (a) inadequate drainage structures;
(b) roadway erosion specifically on road gradients; (c) soft/muddy
areas; (d) slippery surfaces. For these cases, spot improvements
generally represent a minimum cost solution to achieve a desired level
of accessibility. This is particularly true under conditions of severe
resource constraints. Therefore, under the projecc methods will be
developed for diagnosing problem spots and, thereafter, for correcting
deficiencies through minimum cost solutions. The spot improvement
component aims to do this by (i) establishing a drainage structure team
in each of the Western, Ashanti and Brong Ahafo regions, which by force
account would carry out repair and construction of simple drainage
structures, and (ii) carrying out mostly by force account with
participation of local communities corrections to the other mentioned
deficiencies. Works would, to a large extent, be carried out by
labor-based methods. It is intended to make increasing use of self-help
community labor, where communities can be identified as main
beneficiaries of the improvements. Intensive improvement works may be
contracted out.
10.       The spot improvements along some 700 km of feeder roads would
be implemented over the three year period. About 210 km (20Z) are
expected to be treated and 420 culverts improved or constructed. During
the initial six months, force account teams and interested contractors
and communities would receive training on execution of the various
activities on a 40 km road section, to identify the most effective and
sustainable ways of planning and implementing spot improvements which
over time, could be applied to the entire country.
D. Feeder Roads Maintenance (Western, Ashanti and Brong Ahafo Regions)
11.       Feeder roads maintenance has been, for many years, grossly
inadequate. In 1983 and 1984 the situation improved thanks to increased



~ 75         ~          ANNEX 3-7
Page 4 of 5
budgetary resources but the network continued to deteriorate even though
at a slower rate. The reasons are: (i) many roads are in a state of
disrepair until they receive substantial spot Improvements, (ii) DFR has
taken over from GHA deteriorated equipment, more than half of which is
down due to lack of spare parts, (iii) handtools both for DFR labor and
self-help coomunity labor is inadequate, (iv) salary levels for DFR
staff and labor are inadequate to ensure adequate work outputs, (v)
office equipment and vehicles for supervisory field functions are
completely inadequate, and (vi) budgetary allocations are still too
small.
12.       Improvements in maintenance management would be concentrated
in the three regions: Western, Ashanti and Brong Ahafo; the project
would address maintenance problems by (i) carrying out spot
improvements, (ii) providing spare parts for reparing existing DFR
equipment, (iii) and procuring tools, (iv) renovating offices and
provision of equipment and vehicles for supervisory functions, (v)
providing work incentives and carrying out work on a task basis, and
(vi) providing technical assistance. In addition, three towed graders
would be procured under the project to be used as a cost-effective
substitute to motergraders. About 2000 km are expected to be maintained
over the project period.
E. Technical Assistance and Training
13.       Technical assistance would be provided to DFR in the following
areas: vi) overall feeder roads planning, vii) implementation of pilot
improvement and spot improvement as well as maintenance programs, and
'iii) training of DFR staff, local contractors and communities.  In
total, it is envisaged that about 97 man-months of technical assistance
consisting of an engineer planner (36), a labor-intensive expert (32),
and a maintenance engineer (29) would be provided plus ad hoc short-term
consultancy services. UNDP is expected to finance the technical
assistance and consultancy services for which ILO (Employment and
Technology Branch) would be the executing agency. Adequate counterpart
staffing would be provided by DFR to enable full technology transfer
during the project period. Outline terms of reference for the technical
assistance and counterpart staffing requirements are' given in Working
Paper No. 5.
F. Cost Estimate
14.       The cost of the pilot feeder roads program, net of taxes.
duties and contingencies, but including amortization of equipment
already owned by contractors and used under the project, is estimated at
US$5.7 million equivalent. Amortization of equipment purchased and used
on project works would amount about US$700,000. The cost under
maintenance includes that required for p-ocurement of vehicles, tools
and office equipment and for actual execution of maintenance work
(excluding DFR salaries). Costs estimates, in May 1985 prices, are
summarized below and detailed in Attachment 1.



- 76-                      h ANEX 3-7
Page 5 of 5
Summary of Costs for Pilot Feeder Roads Program
LOCAL           FOREIGN            TOTAL
For DFR
Equipment                                           748               748
Spare Parts, Tools, Sundry          -               357               357
Petty Contracts, Operations
& Maintenance of Equipment
& Vehicles  1/                      90              403               493
TOTAL                               90            1.508             1,598
For Plant Pool (BBC)
Equipment                           -               240               240
Spare Parts                         -                70                70
TOTAL                               -               310               310
For Contractors (EEC)
Equipment                           -               344               344
Spare Parts, Tools                  -               350               350
TOTAL                               -               694               694
For Civil Works Contracts
Gross Total                     (1.540)          (1,300)           (2,840)
Net Total(Excluding depr. etc)  1,540                588            2,128
For UNDP Financed T.A.              0               980               980
GRAND TOTAL (Base Cost)          1,630            4,080             5,710
WAPT1
April 1985
1/   ixcluding salaries.



- 77 -
ANNEX 3-7
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Pilot Feeder Roads Program - Cost Estimate
(April 1985 US$ '000)
A. IhWweament of about 240 Km in Sefwi Wiaso - By Conmat
Fqi4ment for Contractors (EC)  No.      Ukit Cost   IDcal 1/      Foregn       Total.
Tipper Trucks (4Gr)              4          25          -           100         100
Trwtors (65 P)                  12          12          -           144         144
Non-MTipng Trailers (9  )        24          2          -            48          48
Pedestrian Viberator Roller3     4           5          -            20          20
Towed Water Tankers (241*ml)     4           2          -             8           8
ains Saws                        4           2          -             8           8
CUlVertlDIds                     8           2          -            16          16
Sub-Total (Euipment)                                    -           344         344
Spare Parts                                             -           150          50
Hand Tools                                              -           100         100
TUDAL                                                   -           594         594
FAqneinmt for Plant Pool (SC)
Bllldroer (140 HP)               1         100          -           100         100
Jm-Bed Trailer                   1          75          -            75          75
Fuel       (20,000 1)            1          85          -            85          85
MobileW Wrkbop                    1         50          -            50          50
Subtotal   qupment)                                     -           310         310
Spare Parts                                             -            90          90
1T[AL                                                   -           400         400
Equirzut for DFR
4 W.. Vebilcles                  2          14          -            28          28
u,torb1ikes (125cc)              6           2          -            12          12
Radio CoumicatiLos (Sets)        3           4          -            12          12
Office F1!iEtE                  iS           -          -            50          50
Subtotal (equipment)                                   -           102         102
Spare Parts                                                          30          30
Stat ery Etc.                                           -            20          20
qrwnein &MYsnutemne                                     -            50          50
TDLTA                                                               202         202
Civil Work Contracts
Buildigsq  (50% fec)            IS                     220          22)         440
Road1Kerks (45% fec)         240km          10      (1,320)      (1,080)      (2,400)
RPadwadcs less deprecatln,
tools, & spares                                      1,320          368       1,688
MTAL (net)                                           1,540          588       2,128
1/   Additional local costs would amount about 10% of CIF of equipment for
internal handling and transportation.



- 78 -
ANNEX 3-7
AttachFent 1
Page 2 of 3
B. Spot Ipromuts to about 700 E= - By Fore hAcmut
tywm  for DBR
TIpe Tad  (4ue)                  6         25          -            150         150
water Pwus                       3          1           -            3            3
Tzaet   (65 lEP)                 3         12          -            36          36
N)-MIp        TmUlms (3mP)       3          2           -            6            6
Culert mds                       6          2          -            12           12
4WD VebIc1es                     2         14          -            28          28
1tlckes (125cr)                10          2          -            20           20
Offic Equipmet                  IS          -          -             5           5
ttal (d t)                                             -           260         260
span PE r ts                                           -           100          100
Arpn  0t Oredmils                                      -            60          60
Iools                          s-                                 30          30
Petty Contects                  IS                     60            0          60
peumixn &                       is                                  125         125
Stioc.y Etc.                    IS                     -             4           4
-DJDIL                                                 60          579         639
C. Road 1utenane for about 2,000 klm - By Force 4ct
Equutit for 1Df
Towed                            3          6          -            18           18
Tzcors (85 BP)                   3         16          -            48          48
;ipperfs (4Ma)                   3         25          -            75          75
4 -ID Plda                       3         14          -            42          42
ibt- bdkes (125cc)              12          2          -            24           24
4 - )VeicIa                      6         14          -            84          84
So3ar Kiln                       1          4          -             4           4
office Pqwint                   is          -          -            10          10
Sbtotalv (eq t)                                        -           305         305
spare Parts                     LS                     -            60          60
Fqdpa*t Ovedaas                 IS                     -            30          30
Eimd Toos                       IS                     -            20          20
Petty Cmnts                                            3D            0          30
Operatim &                      IS                     -           200         200
Statk.-M.y Etc.                                                      5           5
lD=AL                                                 30           620         650
D. MF fleadof fkie Plamm1z and Ciorzdiatlim
Office Equdpmut                IS                      -            30          30
4i1D Vebilc3                    3          14          -            42          42
Su1~= (ewt)                                            -72                      72
..  -tim &  lutezmwe                                                90           90
L                                                        .                      1



- 79 -
ANNEX 3-7
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3
E. Tedxaical Ass! Bm  (MMF
TOM LerlPr                     36 bzds fxcu Septaeber 1985
Civll Works - Cwtr             32 uamts fmra Jmaxy 1986
Civil Works -  i               29        fra  April 1986
97  itbs                           ll$786         786
31  Traing Cm1±tnt (4w)                                                40          40
Empr Tcral                                                              6           6
UD Sq5mIa  and PvJ,ti missii                                           12          12
&    Abcxzzrats                                                        40          60
Study Tours                                                            19          19
On Aditiowl Vedrl                                                      15          15
50C     =a    - 3 Vehicles                                             36          36
Reports                                                                 8           8
&Sdry                                                                  18          18
SubTfotal                                                             980         980
Terbdcl Assamn  DER
50Z                ]MInce                                36            -           36
TOL                                                      36           980        1,016
Me l985
. . . ~    &PT
1~~~a  19 .



- 80 -
ANNEX 3-8
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
1.        Project costs have been estimated at April 1985 prices using
latest prices and supplier quotations. The detailed cost estimates are
shown in Attachment 1.
2.        Physical contingencies have been taken at variable rates as
follows:
(a) 101 for rehabilitation of Accra-Kumasi road,
rehabilitation of bridges and trucks under
incentive program;
(b) SZ for technical assistance and training; and
(c) OZ for PPF, food aid, and the three year road
maintenance and feeder road programs.
The price contingencies were added to both the foreign and local base
costs at the estimated foreign inflation rates of 5X for 1985, 7.5Z for
1986, and 8X for 1987-90. It is expected that adjustments in exch'gnge
rates would be made by the Government if the local inflation rate is
much higher than the foreign inflation rates in the future.
3.        The financing plan for the project is presented in
Attachment 2.
4.        Attachment 3 shows the expected annual distribution of project
costs based on the implementation schedule.
The ProJect's Impact on Government Budget
5.        Attachment 4 presents the estimated budgetary contribution to
be made by the Government for the project. The figures show the
Governments' contribution, excluding taxes. The actual budget of MMi
will have to cover more than this contribution. This is because the
full costs of periodic maintenance contracts executed by domestic
contractors have to be paid through GHA. budget, even though the project
will finance import of the contractors' equipment and materials, which
will be handled through BEC or private dealers. The full MRi budget
should cover the following:



- 81 -
ANNE 3-8
Page 2 of 2
(a) the cost of annual periodic maintenance works under the
project, estimated at US$42.5 m equivalent for the three-year
program (1986-88) in 1985 prices (see Annex 4, Attachment 3).
(b)  incremental costs for more intensive routine maintenance have
to be provided through Recurrent Budget. GHA's recurrent
budget in 1985 is about US$6 million equivalent, of which
about US$4 million is estimated for routine maintenance.
Incremental costs for routine maintenance for reaching the
higher targets set under the project would be: 1986: US$0.9 m
equivalent; 1987: US$1.7 m; 1988: US$2.4 m and 1989: US$3.1m
(see Annex 3-1, page 2);
(c)  for tIe pilot feeder roads program, all civil works and
maintenance costs have to be reflected in DFR budget, since
the work will be done through contractors or force account.
This will be in addition to DFR's regular maintenance budget.
60% of civil works and maintenance costs will be financed
under the project.
'd) for other project items - bridge rehabilitation and
Accra-Kumasi highway rehabilitation -- MRH budget has to cover
10% of total costs, since 90% (net of taxes) will be covered
through external financing;
(e) in addition to the project related budget, Government will
have to continue budget provisions for the following items:
(i) capital budget for ongoing and other road projects, at an
annual level of about US$18 million equivalent Cat about
75% of the 1985 level);
(ii) maintenance and rehabilitation of urban roads;
(iii) recurrent budget at 1985 level, with increases for salary
levels; and
(iv) concurrent additional costs for periodic maintenance to
increase coverage of road maintenance from 30% (provided
under the project during 1986-88), so that the target of
50% can be reached by 1991 (see para 2.26).
(v) provision for regular annual periodic maintenance for
1989 (overlapping wvith the project's spill-over to 1989).
WAPT1
May 1985



-82-                                                                               38
GHANAI                                   SAttachut  1
--~                                       Page I of 5
ROGD EAEILITATIGH AND MINTEIDIA         PRJECT
Project Cost Estimate
lusS '000)                         lCedi '0001
Duty                               Duty                         Percentage
Loal I Ta: Foreign Total           LK&I . & Ta: Foreign   Total         of Base Cost
A. REHABILITATIONIAIHTENUACE OF
THE ROAD IIETMUIC
A.! Assistance to Shma Highway Authority
[a) Equipxent far second mobile
maintenance unit (MMW)                         19    S00   2000   2519          1007  26500  106000  13r507              0.03
lb) Equipment and spares:
(ii)Spares,tires,hatteries,lubricants and fuel   30   1950   3700   5580            1590  99050  196100  29574d              0.06
(iiiLocal inputs                                1974    197      0   2171        104622  10462        0  115094             0.02
(ivllndirect foreign casts (imported items
purchased lacallyl                           0    1;2   1100   1232             0   6996   5300   65296               0.01
Ic1 Equipment spares and explosives
(for existing quarries)                       19    249    620    9E6            954  13144   3260   46959               0.01
(dI Vehicles for supervision (BRA)                   6    132    530    668           318   6996   29090   35404              0.01
Wei Laboratory equipment for quality control         2     50    200    252           106   2650   10600   13Omh               .00
If) Insurance and Auditing
(1HA and FR, lIC, PP)                         25       0    311    409          1325      0   2C2?9   2164                .00
19' Reconstructionflprovement of markshops        110    123    507    740           930   6540   26871   39242              0.01
Ease Cost                                            2184   3233   9040  14457         15752 171339  479120  766210              0.14
Contingencies - Physical                                0      0       0      0             0      0       0        0            0.00
- Price                                444    499   1316   2259          23532  26447   69748  119727              0.02
Total Cost, A.L                                      26     3732  1035   16716        139294 !97795  54B969  995937              0.17
: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   ~   ~  ~   ~  ~   ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  - -- -   -  -



583                                                                        ANNfl 3-8
Attachmnt 1
(1S1 100)                          (CCdl '00)                           Page  2 of 5
Duty                               hty                          Percntaoe
Local  I Tas Foreign Total         Local  I Taz Foreign   Total         of Dose Cost
A.2 Assistance to local contractors, Plant Pool
and quarrin through I6H and BtC
(a) To local contractors:
(ilEquipumnt and sparn  125 coatractors)          46   1100  6400   5546            2430  53300  233200  2938               0.06
(ihiSparas for xisting equipmnt                   21   1000   2000   3021           1113  53000  106000  160113             0.03
(iiilTires and tubes                              16    750   15N0  2266             B40  3750   79500  120098              0.02
(iv)Oils1 lubricants and fuel                      6    750   1500   2256            3110  3975    79500  IIS56B            0.02
(lo8atterius                                       0      20     80    100             0   1060    4240    5300               .00
(bi To quarries:
Ci)Sparas for emisting operations                  7    325    650    902            371  17225   34450   52046             0.01
(ii)Ezplosiwes                                     9    365    730   1103            424   M45   3860   50459               0.01
(cl To Plant POoI:
li1 Equipmut and Spares                           10    272   I00   1372             530  14416   57770   72716             0.01
lill Stores Rodelling                               8       6     25     39           424    331    1325    2090              .00
(d1 Local inputs                               1IZ    1336         0  14695        708027  70103       0  77B830             0.15
(It Indirect foreign ruot limprted
items purchased locally)                        0    385   3207   3592              0  20397  16971  190368              0.04
Base Cost                                           13411    09   15182  34972        714493 334376 904646 1853515               0.35
Contingencies - Physical                                0      0      0       0            0       0       0       0             0.00
- Price                               2796   1151   2730   6685        14810   61003  145214  356305              0.07
Total Cost, A.2                                     16277   7460  179M  4*16'         362681 395379  947602207820                0.41
A.3 Technical Assistance
(a) SPAl
li Instit. build. for flec. Div. 1165 ml          150       0   1600   1750          7950      0   89400   92750             0.02
1ili Strengthening of Planning Div. (24 mln        25       0    260    295          1325      0   13780   15105              .00
Iiii) Strengthening fbnageant
(Foreign Exch. support for expatriate
field engineers)                              0      0    250    250              0      0   12250   13250              .00
liv; Follow-up proj.I sisc.st. (50 ml              70       0    500    570          3710      0   26500   30210             0.01
(hi nRH
Establishment of Budgeting and Programing Unit
in fIRM  (30 mI)                                    32      0    300   3;2           1696      0   15900   17596               .00
(c1 Dank for Housing and Construction (BHCI
li1 Technical assistance (71 mmi                   46       0    500    546          2438      0   26500   28938             0.01
Iii1 Office equipent and vehicles                  90    200    300    590           4770  10600   15900   31270             0.01
Base Cost                                             413:   200   3710   4323         21889  10600  196620  22S119              0.04
Contingencies - Physical                               21     10   16    216           1094    530    9032   11456               .00
- Price                                 7      35    650    766          3869   1355   34874   40598              0.01
Tital Cost, 1.3                                       507    245   4554   5305         26652  12M    241336  281173              O.OS



-84-                                                                     ANNEX 3-8
Attachmet I
(USs  0001                         (Cdi loco0                            Page  3 of 5
Sbty                               Duty                          Purcentagu
Local  & Tax Foreign Total         Local  I Tau Foreign   Total         of Base Cost
A.4 Training Prograa - Base CKt                        430    104   2075   209           22790   3512  10975  138277              0.03
Contingmncles - Physical                               22      5    104    130           1140    2'6    549    6914                .00
- Price                                 U       21    423    532          4664   1113   22419   21196              0.01
Total Cost, A.4                                       540    130   2602   3271          21594   6901  1379'3  173387             0.03
4.5 Incentive Progras
a) Food aid program
(for 6HR, DIFR  d HRH eqlplosy l                  53      0   BRIO   9153          2909       0  429300  432109             0.03
(I) Vehicles and spares fcr food
distribution                                  6    100    400    506           319   5300   21200   26910              0.01
') hises for staff (6) - 6Ha                           3 S    3    S30    416           19   4399   1749    22049                .00
Cd) Honsing for staff 140 units) - 6HA              579    2?7    912   1169          30697  14745   43036   *46B               0.02
Base Cost                                             641    461   9642  10744          33973  24444  511021  569443             0.11
Contingencies - Physical                               59     46    154    259           3116   2444    B173   13733              .00
- Price                                 97     76    254    427           5141   4021   1344.s  22631               .00
Total Cost, A.5                                       797    593  10050  11430          42230  30916  532161  605607             0.11
1.A Project Rnageont Unit
(Technical ksuistance)                           200       0   1400   1100         10600       0   M420   54800              0.02
Contingencies - Physical                               10      0      70     so           5'0      0    3710    4240              .00
- Price                                 35       0    249    29'          1955      0   23144   1499                .00
Total Cost, 4.6                                       245      0   1718   1963          12985      0   91054  104039             0.02
Base Cost of ' (Items 4.1 to 1.61                   17349  10307  41049  69705         919497 546270 2175597 364!364             0.69
Contingencies   Physical                              III     61    513    161          5T80   3250   27213   36343              0.01
- Price                               3533   1792   5637  20952         17219  94446  298761  500456               0.11
Tctal Cost of A                                     20993  12150  4719   00343       1112626 643966 2501571 4259164              0.90
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------        -    -                                                                 -- 



-85 -                                                                    ASl 3-8
itacln.gnt 1
IUtS$  o000)                       (Csdi 'aO                             Page  4 of 5
Duty                               Duty                         Prcentage
Local t Tas Foreap Total           Local  & Ia  Foreign   Total         of Basu  Cost
P. REIABILITAT71U OF BRID6ES
3.1 Rehabilitation of 14 bridgn                         1920    681   2714   3215         96460  3S093  143842  27635               0.05
8.2 Supervision and deign                                 50      0    500    550          2650       0   26500  -29150             0.01
3.3 bridge maintenance unit (equip./mater.1               10    235    950   1199           530  12518   50350   63461              0.01
1.4 Technical assistance for tHU1 (20 a)                  20      0    190    200         l1OO  .   0    9540   10600                .00
Bass Cost                                            1900    919   4344   7163        100700  48631  230232  379613              0.07
Contingencais - Physical                              190     92    434    716         10070   4968   23023   37961              0.01
- Price                                f95    191    903   1409         20935  10123   47859   78917              0.01
Total Cast of 3                                      2405   1201   56e    968          31705  6372  01114  49691                 0.09
C.  PILOT FEEDER ROADS PRGuRAI
C lIapfovement of 246 km by omntract
(a) Equipimnt and spares for contractors               59    145    594    901          31:7   7944  31412   42453               0.01
lbh  Equipment and spares fir Plant Pool               40    100    400    540          2120   53o0  21200   29620               0.01
£cl Equipment and spares for 8FR                       :0     51    202    273          lObO   2703   10706   14469               .00
(dl Roadworts                                        1320     54    36    1742         69960   2962   1954   q.9226              0.0o
(el  ual4dangs                                        220     X2    20    472          11660   :516   11660   25016               .00
C.2 Spot :mprovemmnt by iorce account
Cal Equipment, s;ares and operations                  119    145    579    942          6254   7605   30687   44626              0.01
C.3 Road uantenance by force account
Cal Equipment, spares and operations                   92    155    620    967          4976   3215   32360   459I               MIt
X4 Plannang and Coordination                              16    40    162    216            948   2120    856   1155                 .00
C.5 Technical kssistance                                  36      0    "0   1016           1908       0   51"0   53040              0.01
Base Cost                                            :921    725   4125   6771        101913   942'5  2.181625  39963            0.07
Contingenries - Pbyt:cal                                0      0      0       0            0       0       0       0             0.00
- Pricr                                359    115    769   1262         1974   7155   4075?   66196              0.01
Tota: Cost of C                                      2279    860   4894   9033        120787  45590  :59382  425749              0.09
D. REHABILITATION OF ACCRA-KUIIASI
HIiSHNIy
D.1 Aspha't con:rete overlay of Anyinam-
Kausi (105 km)                                    2770   1'92  1:319  16271        146810 115646  599107  962363              O.lt
1.2 Supervision                                          166      0    679    945          B?79       0   35907    4785             o.o0
Base Cost                                            2936  2192  119O  17116          15550  11:646  635994  It7148              0.17
Cnt;ingrties - Physical                               294    219   12,00   1712        15561  11565  6359   90715                0.02
- Price                                734    546   300   420           39902  2938  159000  22640                 .06
Total :ost of O                                      3964   2946  16159  23106        2!0071 156149  B53493 1224703              0.2'



-86-                                                          JI 3-8
Attachasst I
(U11M   mi)                        ICdi '0001                    Page 5 of  5
Zlty                               Duty                         Prcentqe
Lcal    T T   Foreiga Total        Local    Tam Foreign   Total        of Ba  Cost
E. REPATET OF PK AWNCE (TO DIM                               0      0   1000   1000             0      0   53000   53000             0.01
Contingencis - Physical
- Price
Total Cost of E                                        0       0   1000   1000            0       0   53000   53000             0.01
*RAD TOTAL
_ ._____._
Dame Cost                                          24106  14132  62516 100754        1277618 749022 3313!49 533999              1.00
Cootingencia   - Physical                            575    371   2148   3114         31511  19683  11301  165019               0.03
- Price                               5020   2654  10309  13793        268060 140662  546377  95309              0.19
Total Cost                                         29721 1715B  74973 121951        157519 909367 3973550 6459106               1.21
IITES: 1. Figures may not add up exactly, due to rounding.
2. Dam pricen relate to April 19M5.                                               Abreviations used:
Eschuge rate used: U531 * 53 cedis                                             *um u
PU - Bridge faintenaace Unit
3. Physical contingencies of 5? to 102  insed dpnding on                          6HA - Ghana Highpny Authority
ites.  No physical contingencies assuud for items A.1 and                      DFR - Department of Feedr Roads
4.2 as thes  ites can be tailored to funding availability.                     BHC - Dank for Housing and Construction
Price contingencin ntimted assming the following                               PIU - Prcject  anagement Unit
anul inflation rats: 195 * 52; 1996 a 7.5;                                     IIRH - Ministry of Roas and Highwys
1997-90 z 8.  It is npected that exchange rate adjustments                     PP - Plant Pool
will bt made by Bovernient if the local inflation ratn are
uch tigher than foreign inflation rates in future.
Source: 1G4, DIC, ant Dank Mission.
WTI
ay  I995



*,'                                                                                                                                                                                                      .    ,               ,.. ,,,.
.4
AMA  RIIAILrUflON AMl KUIM*WKX?W         Wf03
Total      m         f=7L          D        African Del. Wak                 iDA               TotluIzernal 
_____                        ___~-O&     YT1  9A-91  frv                              L                      L        l  L_V                            I      L       V 
A. bkbebMat. of Trunk load !kth-o
A4.1 & A.2
Assist. to GU and local contractor.
(iquip. and MAterials)              16.91.     26.2?       1.7.11              2.00  1/ l..9   2.4.59                                                          10.59   11.59   11,91   11.36   20.29
A.3  lust.aldg./tscholcai Ahsista~ce        0.51       4.55       1.04                           0.3 1/I                             0.51    4.17    4.94     0.51    4.55    5.04      .*
A.4  IratLea in    aTm                      0.54       2.40       3.2',                                                              0.54    2.60    3.1.4    0.54    1.60    3.14
A.5  locantive Prrogrm                      0.60      10.05      10.55    a.101l/                                                   0.60    1.95    2.75      0,50   10.05   10.61     -.       -
A.4   Prjoect Han.eanot Unit                0.24       1.73       1.9?                                                              0.21.   1.73    1.97      0,24    1,73    1.97      -       .
Total of A                           11.00      4          6.20 12a  lin       L          La                                  LM    ALA    27.43        2.09   35.51   37.91   U.91    Jj          j
1.   Uahbllitatioa of kUmale                2.49       5.65       3.17                                                              1.11    5.45    4.4       1.1     5.49    4.93    1.14     --     1.14
C.    Feeder loa  Proram                    2.26       4.89       7.17                           0.95 1I                            0.73    3.91    4.64      0.73    4.59    5.62    1. 55    -        55
0.   ILba. ASersiK.basi RSubway             3.94      14.10      20.14                                      1.94   11.20   111.U  .           --              1.94   16,20   15.14    2,02             slo1t0
3. ~~~~~~~                     -- ~~~~~~ 1.00       1.00                                                                       1.00    1.00      *-     1.00    1,00      -
mm .4130.110                        29.73       ?49       10.7    6.10         2.00        1.34       1.94   16,20    U 11.4   4.07   35.93   40.00     4,01    5.5    49.0       J37    11.3   51
Li lacudins taze but includLos cootingeociu. fazes and import duties of about USS17.0 million equivalent viii to ebmoched 117 GovernAMt.
for utm As Government v1llia.aat, all local costs (eacept for technical assistance) end 284 of forelpu costs for imparted squipmet, spars parts and mAterials.  ora  other itma,
ecept 5, Ooern t will meat about 104 of total costs, nt of taes.
L   f ot on  aid.
dfor 261 equipet.
/aFIror PMrosilng, Plaumitl and budgetloa Unit in M.
l  for techical assistance, Feeder loads Prop .
mLion l     aat. ofT n
A,16 L
Nay    t 1 o945dlalenretr



611636
ROAD AMNILITATION UP MINTENAKE PROECT
Project .os ......... ...........r.......o.
fn10'000 equivalent)
Total  2915                2916                           2911                          2916~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l           1919
Duty                           hntl                           Duty                           Duty                          Oty'                           htj
Local  I Tit Foreign Total   Local  I Tas foreign Total  Local  I fit Farellg  total  Local  I los forella Total  Local  I Tu, foreip  Total Local   , Tau  Frerigs Total
A. RENI6ILIIATINfl2AINTEMAcE OF
tIC 3NU 1111110
Total Cost .2 A                                  20993  12225   47200  10344       205    922   3152  4148    4941   3530  24442 23122         5490   3007122413 22310    4335   3193  11193 2072.          3915  21504   5042 I2442
3. 3[MIRITATION U 11I1(5
Total Caotof I                                    2435   5201   3482   9348          0       0      0      0      477    327   1541  2553       734    335  2171  2745         M9      382   18063218        214    131    41020M
t.  PILOT P(tK1 ROADS 7101M
Total Cost of C                                   2279   3M0   4194   3034          99      31    112   341       Si9    29    1124  2321       474    25    1448  2317        724    214   2559  25         242      99       1   9"I
I.  EMIILITAIIEOF W    AA-KUM111 
HINT
total Cost sf3I                                   3944   2944  14291  23201        394    29    1240  2322       231    2 031   144   3087      1387   2032   5469  ON?        55    442   2438  344          2I3    247      I    132 0 N
C.  WATER?" OF 7P  AWAKE ITO 23A2
Total Cost ofI                                       0       0210001t00              0       0  100   0200          0      0        @   0         0       0       0    0         0       0      0 S0            6      6        0
WA TOTAL
lose Colt                                        24204  24232  42524 100754        481   1137   4039 .714        4422   4446  20249321235    7005   30   21107 2M52           4594   3345  1352 23490    U40    2317   3013  9147
Coottiegecbo  - fkticnlc                           595    371   224    3224         34      25    140   29"       200    227,  732  20401    295    22.k   71212034            224      14    400   59         42      22    211   222
Prics                            5020   2455  20309  279114        79     12    404   54i       710    491   2092  3293    12204    72    2914  4934    2727    I17   3034  5442           1217    416   279   349
Total Coot                                       2912  27259  14973 1222352        400   2244   4583  0427    7532   5084  22973 31569    345   444   22407 34340    6445   4294  2419U~2972                4459   IN?    M         12  3467
011is  2. Fligres Hy lot 044 up 05octly, Oaa to ronaileg.
2. Caleadar TINE VI used.
UaN prices retatl to April Ills.
Isicaage rotea snai 4002 a 53 cello
3. flys2cal cmntiageocies of SI to 202 itanso deponiila us
A.5 is theme Stim cmn be tailwre to floadig avalliahllty.
Price cutlegooc2es stliuted asuselog the falloeleg
MUsua inflation ratess 2955 Ij 21 914 a MI51
1937-90 8     Is isaepocded that whaphg  rate adioltoents
gill be sefa by Iovoroeat If thaIo      I local l   1f fal lsroe  art
Nich higher thm foreils lsf latim rate s  futera.
Wllsu    16m, IFNI KgC ud link Hisoao..



-89 -
ANNEX 3-8
Attachment 4
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND KAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Government Budgetary Contribution (Excluding Taxes)
*  I.  Government Contribution:            1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    TOTAL
(With Price Contingencies,
in US$ million equivalent) a/
For Items Al and A2 (Rd. Maintenance)
- Local                 1.27    4.97    4.63    5.22    2.82    18.91
- Foreign                 -       -       -     7.17    4.21    11.38
For Item B, Bridges                    -     0.34    0.37    0.39    0.14      1.24
For Item C, Feeder Roads             0.07    0.35    0.46    0.49    0.18      1.55
For Item D, Accra-Kumasi Road        0.20    0.71    0.71    0.30    0.10      2.02
TOTAL                                 1.54    6.37    6.17   13.57    7.45    35.10
I1. The Above in April 1985
Base Prices:                         1.50    5.90    5.27   10.77    5.48    28.92
III. Government Contribution b/
Base Prices:                          79.5  312.7  279.3  570.8  290.4  1,532.7
a/ Government contribution based on Attachment 2; annual distribution
based on implementation periods, summarized in Attachment 3.
b/ Exchange rate used: 1US$ - 53 Cedis.
General: See para 5 of this annex for supplementary items to be included in the IMR
budget.
WAPT1
May 1985



I                 I          if   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    .:,,u, ij,,
,~~~~~-            '    .                    H  :    ' .:
f~~- C=     I                                                             0                                            91  
t                 X              2|                             I                a      *     *     d   |                           .
_ ___           ____                      __     _.____              ,       _=  ,,,_,,,,                  ,,,.-_  z        .° 1 i .
_      _ _      _ _      _                _  _    .    _____  _           ____..... _ _  _  ___ _              II ,  ,
C      _          ___                       __ I__                 __ X      _                        19p__    fljiI                     ;
__l                                             _-A              -                         _             
A. ~   ~     
..              .       . 
b~~~~~~~~~~~. ,..           .  :,



-                                          -        - -PE .-1
ASEK 3-10
-91-                                   Pa8  lof2
-nD RanAIL3r' -. S  DMINTENANCE
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Date of                                                       Date of
End of                       Cumulative       Cumulative      End of                       Cumulative     Cumulative
Quarter     Disburasesta   Disbursements   Disburemnts    Quarter   Disbursements   Disbursements  Disbursements
(U mlnion)      ($ *tlln)                                    (S  illion)      ($ mlnion)
FY86                                              Z           FY89
Sep-85            0               0                0          Sep-88          2.00            29.40           73
Dec-85          1.50             1.50              4          Dec-48          2_00            31.40            79
Mar-86          2.00             3.50              9          Mar-89          2.00            33.40            84
Jun-86          1.00            4.50              11          Jun-89          2.00            35.40           89
FY87                                                          Fm
Sep-86          1.80            6.30              16          Sep-89          1.00            36.40           91
Dec-86          3.30            9.60              24          Dec-89          1.00            37.40            94
Mar-87          3.30            12.90             32          Mar-90          1.00            38.40            96
Jun-87          3.30           16.20              41          Jun-90          1.60            40.00          100
FY88
Sep-87          2.80           19.00              48
Dec-87          2.80           21.80              54
Yar-88          2.80           24.60              61
Jun-88          2.80           27.40              68
Note: Assumed Date if Effectiveneas: September 1985. Assm e. initial disbursement of US$1.0 million to repay PPP advance.
Other initial disbursements include provision for down payments and revolving funds. A tiselaS of 6 months betveen
comaitment and disburseent is generally assumd. The above schedule is aborter than the historical disbursement
profile of all Vest Africa highway projects financed by IDA. SInce this project is a time-slice (1986-88)
of the Government's maintenance program. and disbursements will be mostly agalnst imported inputs, the
project disbursement is likely to be faster than the historical profile.
Source: Mission Estimates
v'T
March 1985
:, .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



GHANA: ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
EXPECTED DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
1 00-        ..FRC                                              -*                                    .         . ,.;.
90  -        -    W.AFRXCA HWY PROJECTS,IDACHISTORICAL PROFILE)
80---PROPOSED PROJECT PROFILE
i70
40                             ,                 
FY86           FY87            FY88            FY89           FY90           FY9 1ot
FY86 THRU FY9 1I 
EXPECTED BOAD APROVALt E  1066 
MXPCCTED CRDIT 07ECTZVNESSs SEPTEM    10"                                                                    :
Nt9t11# MI6SSON ESIXTES
VAPTI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MeRCH I;'
I~~~~~~~~~ ..,; 
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:.   ..... :



.:-   .  -    -  -  93 _   ANNEX 3-11
,,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~9
Page I of 2
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Accounting, Budgeting, Costing and Auditing
1.        GHA's Accounting Division in Administration Department is
responsible for accounting and financial duties. The accounting system
is properly designed and documented in an accounting manual and is
adequate for the overall accounting functions of GL. The system allows
GEA to appropriately document all receipts and expenditures so as to
properly discharge Its responsibilities to Government for the funds
entrusted to it. The accounting system also provides GEL's management
with planning and control information and services.
2.        In accordance with a decree establishing GEL in 1974, GEL is
to prepare and submit its annual budget for the ensuing year to the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs (MOP) for approval three months
before the end of each fiscal year. Budgeting for GEA is the
responsiblity of a Budget Committee consisting of the Chief Executive,
the Planning Directorate and the Chief Accountant of GHE. The annual
budget comprises estimates for (a) capital expenditure (b) development
expenditure and (c) recurrent expenditure. After the budget is
approved, funds are released to GEA on evidence of comitment to
purchase for capital expenditure, on presentation of valid certificates
for development expenditure and on a quarterly basis for recurrent
expenditures.
3.        Control of expenditures on development projects is exercised
through established procedures. While works performed by contractors is
supervised and certified by Resident Engineers of GEA, the financial
aspects are approved by ERE and actual payments are approved by the
Controller and Accountant General of the MOF. This procedure ensures
adequate control over project expenditures.
4.        GEL also has an Internal Audit Division which is under the
direct control of its Chief Executive. This Division reports to the
Chief Executive on the accuracy of financial statements, the internal
control system, adherance to Government directives and financial
regulations regarding the application and disbursement of funds
including Implementation of investment programs.
5.        GEL has an accute shortage of qualified staff in its
Accounting and Internal Audit Division. GEA recently appointed a
foreign qualified Gbanaian managemnt accountant but after a few months,
he left GEL and joined a private organization at four to five times
higher salary. In order to strengthen the competency and productivity
of the staff, some training by consultants is required in accounting and
costing. Since DFR has recently been separated from GEL and h&s been



*  94
XANE=  3-11
Page 2..of 2
established as a separate agency under the control of ERB, consultants
will assist DIR in improving accounting, internal auditing and budgeting
procedures as in GEL.
6.        Stores accounting in the CMW is very weak. Because of lack of
training and breakdown of an accounting machine there is a heavy backlog
of vork. Financial records and bAlAnce sheets can not be kept up to
date due to missing vital information. Consequently, the exact value of
the inventory is not known at present. Under the Third Highway Project,
consultants are reorganizing and improving inventory control through a
kardex system and the stores accounting, and a workshop job costing
system is being established.
7.        Further improvements are needed in GRA's cost accounting
system so that the calculation of unit costs for various highway
maintenance functions are refined and the budgeting results are more
accurate and reliable, and finAncial and costing records are fully
integrated. DFR, as a relatively nev agency also needs to improve its
cost accounting system. A consultant will be appointed and assigned to
PME to assist GEL and DFR staff in improving the highway cost
accounting, quarry costing and accounting and to manage all financial
operations of PHU. He will also be responsible for maintaining
Integrated accounting records and will prepare consolidated financial
statements of GE&, BEC and DFR expenditures under the project. In
addition, a stores specialist will also be appointed to ensure proper
recording and accounting of spare parts that will be purchased under the
proposed project.
8.        The Auditor-General's office is responsible for the external
audit of GEH accounts. For several years, a private independent
auditing firm (Pannel, Kerr and Forster) has been appointed by the
Auditor-General to carry out the audit. This firm uses auditing
procedures in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. In
addition to the overall audit of GHA, there is a need to carry out a
project audit for project expenditures incurred by GEL, DFR and BBC.
The project audit report would conform with the Guidelines for Auditing.
The auditors would give a separate opinion on the expenditure for goods
received and works or services performed through proper certification of
expenditures by authorized personnel. The audit report would also
accompany a management letter comenting on the quality of internal
control of the finances and the adequacy and accuracy of the accounting
records. GEC, BHC and DF. agreed to appoint one audit firm to audit the
project accounts of all three agents. A short list of three firms has
been approved. The Auditor-General will make a final choice. During
negotiations such agreement should be formalized with the Government
stating that (i) the project accounts of GCH, BEC and DFR including the
Special and Project Accounts would be audited by independent external
auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with appropriate
auditing rules; and (ii) the audit report together with the management
letter would be furnished to the Association not later than four months
after the end of the fiscal year. The auditors' fees would be financed
under the proposed project.
RAPT1
March 1985



ANEX 4
Page 1 of 5
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Intangible Benefits
1.        Project benefits have been quantified only for some
components, and that too on a partial basis by quantifiying mainly the
vehicle operating cost (VOC) savings produced by the project. The
following is a list of other important project benefits which are not
included in the estimates: (a) macro-economic benefits in helping to
increase exports and farm production by partially removing the physical
constraints on road transport; (b) long-term benefits through
improvement of road maintenance institutions and financing arrangements;
and (c) a major impact through the project's pilot feeder road
components, in improving the techniques and, standards in maintaining
the country's large feeder road network which has not received such
institutional support in the past. An estimation of benefits from
avoiding headloading by improving feeder road access in the pilot area
(covering 240 km roads in the Sefwi-Wiawso area), showed an IRR of about
17% from the total feeder road program, and 24% from the feeder road
program minus the planning unit's costs. This is, however, more in the
nature of a notional estimate, and is not included in the project
returns presented below.
Traffic
2.        The analysis assumes as starting point the depressed traffic
levels observed during surveys in 1983-84, which are known to be at
least 30-40% less than levels reached around 1980 due to the
r.onavailability of vehicle tires, spare parts, and fuel, and due to the
economic decline in the country. Traffic levels should pick up much of
the lost ground in the next two or three years, with the expected
improvement in imported inputs and the general economic upturn of the
country. The project analysis assumes, conservatively, only a 3% annual
growth in traffic from 1984 onwards. Sensitivity analysis shows that
the project investments would yield high economic returns even if the
traffic level is frozen at the present levels.
Economic Prices
3.        Economic returns are calculated using border prices of both
cost and benefit streams. Border prices consist of estimated import
prices of all foreign inputs (excluding taxes but including their
internal transport costs) in addition, all local costs at market prices,
expressed in dollar equivalent at official exchange rate (1$-53 Cedis),



'!- S                                   96
-96-                     AMNEX4
Page 2 of 5
are converted to border prices using a general conversion factor of 0.5.
Foreign components constitute about 85Z of total costs and benefit
streams.  The base price figures relate to April 1985.
Economic Costs of the Project
4.        This is estimated from the financial project costs in the base
year, including physical contigencies but excluding price contingencies,
and converting the data to border prices. Cost items which benefit more
than one component, or whose benefits are too general to be classified
against any component, are allocated as shown in Attachment 1.
Attachment 2 presents the distribution of economic costs among various
items and over the project period.
5.        The actual financial cost of the project's periodic
maintenance program (the three year program with 1950 km of
regravelling, 600km of resealing, 195 km of resurfacing and 135 km of
improvement) would amount to about US$42.5 million (See Attachment 3);
excluding taxes, this would be about US$ 40.0 million. The project cost
for periodic maintenance (financial excluding taxes) shown in Attachment
2 is higher than this cost by about US$5.0 million, because the project
includes import of machinery which will outlive the three year project
duration, and can be used for future maintenance works. The economic
costs should strictly deduct the salvage value of this equipment life,
but the present analysis uses the full costs.
Project Benefits and Rates of Return
Mi) Maintenance Program For Trunk-Roads:
6.        The main source of benefits in this case is VOC savings due to
improvements on project roads. Variations in vehicle operating costs
were calculated by applying the relationship between road deterioration
and vehicle operating costs developed by the Transport and Road Research
Laboratory (TRRL), United Kingdom, through their research programs in
Kenya. The VOC in Ghana under varying road conditions were intially
developed by consultants Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick and Partners, (SWKP),
as part of project feasibility studies during 1981-84, and further
researched by Tahal Consultiag Engineers, Israel, (1984), as part of
their updating of the bridge feasibility studies and economic appraisal
of the proposed trunk road maintenance program, these studies having
been financed under a Project Preparation Facility advance from the
Association. The estimated vehicle operating costs (economic) under
different road conditions, used for the analysis, are presented in
Attachment 4.
7.        VOC savings for the project roads are calculated as the
difference between VOC without the project (for the relevant road
condition of moderate failure, severe failure, etc.) and VOC with the
project (that is, under the "good" condition initially; VOC will
increase subsequently as the impLoved roads deteriorate again. No such
deterioration in road conditions (or additional maintenace costs in



-97 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
keeping road conditions unchanged) is assumed in the "without project"
situation; this understates project benefits.
8.        Since the proposed project covers (because of shortage of
funds) only a small part of the backlog of the periodic maintenance
needed, the selection of roads yielding high economic returns for
inclusion in the program poses no difficulty. GHA maintains a
classification of roads according to road traffic density and surface
condition under 8 types (see Attachment 5), which is updated from time
to time based on traffic surveys and other data. This provides an
approximate but acceptable basis for analysis. The selection of project
roads from the different road types, which has been done by GHA, is
based on a rough economic ranking of relative costs and VOC gains, the
latter being a function of traffic density and road condition (fair,
poor, etc.). As a result, roads with higher traffic density and more
serious deterioration are selected first, before moving to other
categories. To some extent, regional needs have been considered, since
a project selection based on VOC benefits alone would leave out most of
the northern regions of Ghana whose traffic density is lower than in the
southern regions. To ensure a minimum threshold of economic return
(about 152), gravel roads with traffic less than 60 vehicles per day
(vpd) are excluded from regravelling if their present condition is
better than "severe failure". Similarly, roads under "fair" condition
with traffic less than 150 vpd are excluded from regravelling. GHA
would however consider doing less expensive spot-gravelling on such
roads.
9.        The Planning Unit in GRA which will be strengthened under the
project will be involved in guiding the selection of roads during
1987-88, so that the selection process can be further streamlined and
optimised than has been possible by GHA so far.
10.       Attachment 6 presents typical project benefits on the
completion of the first year periodic maintenance program under the
project (out of the targetted three-year program), under various road
types. In economic returns calculations, these benefits are phased
according to anticipated delays in execution. Further, these benefits
would decline over the following years as the improved roads deteriorate
again. Benefits from routine maintenance have not been estimated
separately even though their incremental costs in the project have been
included as part of the maintenance program costs while calculating rate
of return. While the periodic maintenance will cover about 960 km
annually, the routine maintenance will cover about 60-70% of the network
(ie: about 9,000 km). Without the routine maintenance, road conditions
will deteriorate faster, causing additional VOC. A notional estimate of
such benefits indicates a rate of return in excess of 40% from routine
mantenance.
11.       The overall internal economic rate of return (ERR) from the
maintenance program is about 73Z in the base case. Sensitivity analysis
shows that even if benefits were reduced by 50%, the ERR will be as high



98
- 9B - ~~ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
as 25%. The rate is high because of the high percentage of poor roads
in the network which would benefit from the project.
(ii) Rehabilitation of Accra-Kumasi Road (Anyinam-Kumasi Section):
12.       The economic analysis of this project component is based on
the feasibility study done by consultants SKWP, updated in October 1984.
Consultant's estimates have been further updated to April 1985 and
suitably adjusted for the length of the road covered under this project.
The selection of this road as a high priority project was itself based
on pre-investment studies for about 2,000 km of trunk roads done by SKWP
in 1981. Out of 136 km of the Anyinam-Kumasi road needing imediate
rehabilitation, only 105 km, judged to be of utmost urgency from the
engineering and economic point of view, will be covered under the
proposed project due to shortage of funds.
13.       In the "without project" situation, the roughness parameters
of the road are assumed to be kept as at present, tbrough intensive
maintenance. The VOC will be less because of the road rehabilitation,
these benefits declining over time as the road deteriorates again. The
TRRL relationships between road deterioration and vehicle operating
costs are used in the analysis. The main project benefits considered
are: (a) annual savings in VOC due to the improvement of the road; and
(b) annual savings in maintenance costs on the improved road compared to
the situation without the project.
14.       The routine maintenance costs with and without the project are
assumed the same. The cost benefit stream is estimated for the project
life of 18 years. A traffic growth of 3% per annum is assumed. The
traffic density over the route in 1984 was in the range of 1,600-1,700
vehicles per day (vpd), increasing as the road approached Kumasi. Even
if the traffic is frozen at the 1984 level, the rate of return would be
less by only about one percentage point.
15.       The ERR from this project is 26% with a first year return of
21%.   Sensitivity tests with a 25Z increase in costs combined with a
25% decrease in benefits show an EU of 16%. These returns are indeed
based on the assumption that the "without project alternative" would
consist of "intensive maintenance", with regular resealing in 5-6 year
cycles, which Is an unrealistic assumption in Ghana's conditions, where
implementing such a regular maintenance schedule is likely due to
financial and other constraints. When a "null maintenance" alternative
was considered, the ERR in the base case was about 45%. The real
situation would be between the "null" and "full" maintenance options. A
realistic base case ERR for the project would therefore be somewhere
between 26% and 45%.
(iii) Bridge Rehabilitation
16.       Estimates of project benefits from the bridge program are
based on detailed studies done by Tabal Consulting Engineers, Ltd.
during 1982-84. The project covers rehabilitation of fourteen bridges.



- 99 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
Tahal ranked a number of bridges to be repaired/reconstructed into three
priority classes, according to economic return criteria. The bridges
under the proposed project are from the first priority. There are 10
more bridges in this category, but they could not be included in the
project because of shortage of funds; 22 bridges under the first
priority, including the bridges covered under the project, were
estimated by Tahal to be yielding Individual ERR of well above 200x.
17.      To be conservative, the present estlmate includes only a
portion of the project beneflts estimated by consultants. The benefits
included consist of avoided detour costs for a part of the traffic which
will take b-sch detour after the bridge collapses or because physically
unusable dur!.ng their remaining lifespan of about one to five years.
The compo-Ice rate of return from the group of bridges works out to
about 751. While the present estimate groups all project bridges under
one component, the Tahal estimate shows high return for each of the
fourteen bridges in the project.
Summary of Results
18.       Results of the ERR estimates and sensitivity tests are
presented in Attachment 7. They show that even under very adverse
circumstances of reduced benefits and increased costs. the overall
project and its individual components show a high rate of return,
testifying to the strong justification for the project.
19.       Detailed data used for computation of ERR are kept in the
Project Files.
WAPTI
May 1985



- 100-
AMNES 4
Attachmt I
ROD IIILITATION AND MAINTE C  PROJECT
Allocation of Project Caots Among Various Proiect Components
(Costs in US$'000 equivalent)
Percntage Distribution
IteH                          Item Cost aI               Periodic   Routine   kcrc-  Feeder   Bridge  Genral
(financial)                   Nntce.   lintre.  Kumasi  Road       Rehah.  System
----------------                 (trunk    (trunk    Road    Program            Iprowv.
Local Foreign    Total             roads)   roads)   Reab.
A.1 Rehab.llntce. bU
I   of Roadl ebtork
A.2  (6HAlContract.)       I566     24222    39997                 98         2
A.3  Tchnical kssistance
(a) IHA
(i)lhch.biv.            159     1680     1938                20         90
(iiiStrength.Plmn.       26      273      29                 50         20                                  30
(iii Strength.fgmt.       0      263      263                50         20                                  30
CivlIv)Others           108      840      94B                                                              100
Ib) IIC                   143      940      93                  75                                            25
A.4  Traini9ig Program       452     2179      2631                70        10                                   20
A.5 Incative Program:
Food aid, trucks        60     9540     9600                  5        7S                                  20
Benz and Housing       640     16       166                  So        tO                                  40
A.6  Supervision (P1U)       210     1470      1680                75                 10        5        10
S. Rehabilitation
of Bridgn               2090     4778      96                                                      100
C. F*eer Road Prog.         1921     4123     6046                                            100
D. Rhabil:tation
kcra-Iuasi Rd.          3230    13199    16428                                   100
E. PPF Adv.Repay. cl                 1000      1000                1S                 25                 60
TTAL:                 24703    64634     9337
a/ Financial costs as in 1M5; acludes price contingncin, but includes physical cantingmnc;es.
bI The amnt ftr routin  mintenace is for tools and fuel.
c  Alrady spot, and treated as sunk costs in economic analysis.
Swrwe. cisio Estiastn.
wn
Ba  199



SHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MINTENMNCE PROJECT
Economic Co3ts of the Project
................... ...................... .
1985 prites;
lln US$OO  equivalent)
Economic
Financial Costs  bi/  l  hare        PPF Advance Repayment  c/            Cosls  d/         Annual Spreid of Economic Costs (total costs) e;
----...--------------. of the    ------------------------                     ........          .       .      .       .       .      .
Project Coeponents a/                  Local  Foreign    Total    Item          Local  Foreign    Total                Total                1995      1986      1987      1989      1989
Periodic haintenance                   1630    28789    45090           50                  ISO       150              36790                1139    12876       9197      9197      3679
I*A
Routine Naintenance                      599      9681      9290        10                                              Bil1                    0     3143      2245      2694      n893
(incremental costs)                                                                                                                                                                      .
Subtotali                           16900    37471    54310          61                  ISO       ISO              45770                1839    16020    11413    11992        4577
Act  ,-Kumasl Road Rehab.               3251    13595    16846          19                  50       250              14971                1497      5240      5240      2246       749
Feeder Road Program                     1932      4199      6130         7                                              5164                 2 .J     1291      1549      1549       516
Bridge Rehabliltation                   2111      5525      7636         9                  600       600               5981                   0      1794      1794      1794       598
senera) Improvements                     510      3845      4355         5                                              4100                 205      1435      1025      1025       410
TOTAL                             74703    64634    89337         100                1000      1000               75986                3800    25779    210S1    19506        6950
t Allocation by components based on assumptions in Attachment 1.
b/ Excludes price contingoncios. 
c/ PPF advance, fully spent for project preparation, is treated as sunk costs,
d/ Expressed In border prices, lased on CIF isport prices of foreign components,
excluding taxes; local costs in dollar equivalent at official exchange rate
ire conyerted to border prices, usipg a conversion factor of 0.5 (similar
to the basis used for VOC benefits). Also excludes PPF advance (see
Attachment 11 which Is fully spent and treated as sunk costs.
c/ In Calendar years.  Folloms comitment profile.
Source:  lank staff estimates.
ViPT9
Nay 1985



-102
-                        -                    -  ~~~~~~~~~ARME 4 .- :
Attacbhent 3
GHAN~A
ROAD REHABILITATION AUqD NA1TNRE PROJECT
Periodic Naintenance Programn (Trunk Roads) Under the ProJect:
Cost Estimates based ou Unit Rates f or Contrac-tors
(Cost in US$'OOO Equivalent)
Amnual Programa! By         BYunit cost                 Total Cost ( 0100)
GHA .                    K bl
Under the Project (MM1) Contracts         ($N)OO0)     One Year Three Year
(DQ)       (KJK)    (Kg)                         ProgrmProgram Cl'
Regravelling         650        .650                    7.000          .550       13-650
Reseallug.           200         40      160           22,000          4,400      13,-200-
Resurfaciug           65         32       33           35,000          2,275       6,825-
Improvements          45         22       23           65,000          2,925       8,775'
TOTA'l                                                                14,150      42.4.50
a( Average ove-r the three year period; actual annual program may vary.
b/ Conxtractor -rates (with built-in tax elements.* April 1985; it is likely
that the unLit cost of maintenance through GHA will be less, since no
payment has to be made for equipment owned by GRA.. Figures exclude
price contingencies.
cl Bet of taxes, the three-year program costs may amount to about US40
million equivalent. As against this, net of tax periodic maintenance cost
shown in the Atcmn  2 is about US$45 million. This is because the
latter includes import of-machinery that would last longer than the
three years of the project, and could be used in future maintenance
works; it also Includes some technical assistance support.
Source: Bank Staff Estimates
WAPT1
May 1985
. ~ ~   ~      ~      ~           
--                              .                                 --.



- *1.c-*-**  -                             -~~~~103-
ANNEX I
GHANA
Attachment 4
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs for Different Road Conditions, as in 1985
(US cents eq,uivalent, per vehicle-ke)
(Economic Costs)
Weighted a/
Average of YDC
-      Rcad                    Average                                                                               jor Typical 'Vehicle
Condition                Roughness                                       average Vehicle Operating Cost        -      Composition
: am ki)                                 Cars       ICY       PCV      n6vY      NM
- 'a) Paved Roads
1. good                      2000                                  13.6       16.1     43.3      T73      73.3               2.0
2. Fair                      4000                                  !'.5       20.0     55.       42.2     93.5               31.0
3. Pror(;oder.fail.i         6500                                  21.8       24.4     66.7      49.2      98.1               a .2
4. Severe failure            9000                                  26.1       29.8     76.5      55.6    113.4               #3.-
(bh Unpaved Roads
1. & od                      3000                                  15.9       19.84    52.6      40.1     79.1               2B.?
. Fair                      4501                                  18.6       21.1     59.5      43.9     97.0               32.5
3. Poori(mder.fail.;         800C                                  24.0       26.6     72.3      52.8    '05.6               40.4
t. Severe failure           11000                                  30.1       32.7     84.6      61.0    124.7               49.5
a!  Usin9  folloning veights, indicated ty 1984 tri-fic survey:                  Abbreviations:
Cars 36%; LCY 31$; PCS' 15'%,; mgv 12Z; HEV 61                            Cars - car ane taxi
(Ref: Scott Wilson Ktrkpatrick, Consult:ng Engineers,                      ICY  - light comeercial vehicle
'ShaMa - 4tth tghuay Prcgram, 4ddendum ta the Draft                       PCV  - large passenger commercial vehicle
Supplementary Repcrt' f or Preconstruction Studies', October 1984          NV  - uediua goods vehicle
HEV  - heavy goods vehice
Source:  Bank staff estimates, based on following consultants' st dies:
")lScott Wilson (irkpatrirk, Oct. 1994, noted above; (2i 'Shana - Economic
Proposals', Tahal Cons. Engrs., July 1994.
WAPTI
May 1995



--~~   --               -      -                                   -                                                  -   ..-. 
-   ;. -.                            
-104-                                         MNEI 4
At tachaent 5
ROAD REHABILITATIDN AND IA[NTENANCE PROJECT
Road ClassIfication: Distribution of Trunk Roads
by Surface Types, Traffic Levels and Surface Conditions
fer.d-1984)
Leagth by Surface Conditions (1m)
Class        Surface            TraffIr     Road      Good     Fair     PRor   Severe
Type             Range   Length                                Failure
lADTD    (km)
Paved fiRads
I     Cerent Cancretel
Asphaltic Con:rate        } :000        _1        1        15         0         0
2     Bituainous Surface
Dressing  MM              :1002 -10   :o3        127      264      S5i        .3:
3     BSD                       500-t1CC    14i2       175      364       692       :81
4     BS'                       20&500      3M 6       4'1      B56       1625      424
Subtota!, Paved Roads                          57c'       7S2    :1S9        2818      736
u^npaved Roads
S0    Gravel (laterite)           ' 30       r-1       '3:      3C          1        35
6     gravel                    150-300      851       £45      '03        2555      43
7     Gravel                     50-'i50    ;72        607     175        1072      179
8     Gravel                    < 50        3:58       57      :516        947      159
Suu'otal, 'paved Roads                         8'52      1420     '009       2'06      4:e
Total, A". Trur.k Roads                        14134
So-rce:  SN0 estimates.
KAPT'
Kay 19-,5



ROND RIIIUTATiN IIN M MINTEIANCE IOJMCT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  . ...............  . ...........,.,'.!.
ProJect hogeilts Periodic Nalatenau - Savings to YVeicle Operating Costs
he to Irproved  eal Cnoitlains
1I)
IAI                 set
Periodic Nalliteance Ou tputt                      Aonual Vthicl  Operatial Costs        It                 (A 1-11
listributlin of ProJlt lkid                                 MitI,t Project el         Project             First Trru
(Anbual Avrge If year 1 2 and 32 He  SI                            (US 5OOI               1131 lOl               SnVIe.;
Roadlass           Are.   .-.- . -----..--...  -                                                      . ------        . -     . --  -- ---.. . -            in VOC
of Project          Daily                Total     kdW       Fair     Por   severe                 Fair     Por   Iever    Total   lae /e to Project 1I
loads           Traffic                                                   r Failure                             Faile                                        000
.._. ... .  ... _.. ....._  __ _._-..                                                 ....   -.           ..  _.   ...,...                  *.._.__.__.                      a 
as per Attucht 21    IeTI
1i  enrnavellie          5                350                220         0      125       so        Is               5190     4130       9      1024m      I12                2124
$                 25                20         0         0       Us        Is                  0     2121       517    3411      231$                1044
I                1o0                2U         0         0      220        40                  0     3245      I10      430e     24                  1552
I                 40                 50        0         0        0        se                  0        e       335      354       211                143
hitotal (al                                              150        0       125      315       140               5190    109        2941    11232     13463               44U3
(bI R   seIa"             2               1000                 50        0        20       30         0               2240    407           0     u3s       47$42               15
3               is                   4         I         0       a5                            0 0 3974           0     397       2774               1200
4               500                 105        0         0      105         0                  0     4230         0     420      297                 122
htetal 11i                                               200        0        20     I11          0               220    12330          0    1450    10503                 4017
Icl hirfaci              2               1000                 40                  0        0        40                  0        0      $517     6317      3793               2524
3               750                  25        0         0        0        25                  0        0      2941   29  1  I 7  I7U i
uhtsta( Icl                                               i5        0         0        0        l5                  0        0      13       9271      571                3707.
(di llprnnale             2               1000                 25        0         0        0        25                  0        0   3943        394       2371               1577
3               750                  20        0         0        0        20                  0        0      2349     2JU9      1422               946
SIteal (if                                                45        0         0        0        45                  0        0      U317     $317      3793               2124
-  TOTAL                                                 940        0       145      545       250               7450    22525 1      3     4511    3531                  49110
._   .              .....         .         .__........__.._...
a/ lecative figWe  vith.i the traffic rtig  of the read clin
caucornds tin  Atachet 51 basd u  recent traffic wyrvt  ad 6H
entliites.
b/ Feilus prieritin  estahiteht  by l, a the basis et sc.auik  rakieg.
cl lse  m  Atatuk t 4.
di gmu beeilts in t1e first yer, after lqreveut;NH           fi   foll"iale
yuas  bnefits  wld dcrease, due to deterleration of the  ud srwface
huset Niacin etleUt".
Wi I
Ray I95



-106-
ANNEX 4
Attacbment 7
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Suamary of EconomiLc Return Calcuatious and Sensitivity Aualysis
SensitLviLty Analysis
Project Component         Z inu Total FEconomic    Benefits    Costs   B-25Z
Economic    Rate of   Less 25Z                and
Cost      Raturn                    25Z    CRUZ%
(ERR)
1.' Trunk Road Network
Maiutenance Program
(PeriLodiLc plus routine;
including assistance to
GEWL aud Contractors)             61         73          50         55       35
2. Rehabilitation of
Accra-Kumasi Road Sections
(100 I"A                         19          26          20         21       16
3. Bridge Rehabilitation               8         75           61         64      51
4.  Feeder Road Program                7              (BENFITS NiOT QUANTIFIED)
5.  General Improvemeuts (Not
alloc-ated to the above)           5             (BENEITS NOT QUANTIFIED)
6. Composite Return on Items
1-3                               88         59          42          45      31
7. Composite Returns on Total
Project (Based on
quantified benefits from
items I - 3)                     100         53          38          41      29
Source: Bank Staff Estimates.
WAPT1
Nay 1985



NMR 18727
- t 7 ~~~~~BU R KI|NA                                    Jr                                                     J->r>
- MA#i¶IO UND POM5C
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pw    PM M.=."-_-top
-.    .   } P       P       Et        &e           ~~~~REGION                .                       "Iow
7 < a ~~E   S\T                     ,.-N   }5-   
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MI POV WT/'Ur
_ ) S . 9--s 2" 0 --........... 
E* aay  La  O _w
O I I I f b c:£ - *f_ d
X,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o    o~}wr no9 _w    _m     _  rw
MARCH 1985
r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~TG






