Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C Re. /4e> 0 .7
RePort No. P-4076-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 40.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
May 14, 1985
This wu ^ nYt bw a restnckd distributibe and May be wed by recipients ady in the performne of
their officaud . Its countentsi my not othrwise be diclosed without Wodd Bank xuthorizaton. I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Cedis (C)
US$ 1.00 - ¢ 53
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF      -  African Development Fund
BEC       -  Bank for Housing and Construction
DFR       - Department of Feeder Roads
DUR       -  Department of Urban Roads
CRA       -  Ghana Highway Authority
NMU       - Mobile Maintenance Unit
MOTC      - Ministry of Transport and Communications
.wtOR     -  Ministry of Roads and Highways
PMU       -  Project Management Unit
PPF       -  Project Preparation Facility
STC       -  State Transport Corporation
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Program



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:      Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries: Ministry of Roads and Highways (MRH), Ghana Highway
Authority (GRA), Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC),
and domestic contractors through subloans from BHC.
Credit Amount: SDR 40.4 million (US$40.0 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Relending      US$5 million of the proceeds of the Credit would be
Terms:         relent to BBC at 12 percent per annum for 12 years
including 3 years of grace.
Project        The project would -support the following components:
Description:   (i) a three year (1986-88) rehabilitation and maintenance
program for Ghana's trunk road network, (ii) a bridge
rehabilitation program, (iii) a three year pilot feeder
road program, and (iv) rehabilitation of about 105 km of
the Accra-Kumasi highway. The project would provide
funding for new equipment and spare parts, civil works,
fuel, technical assistance and training at all levels.
Project        The main benefit from the proposed project would be
Benefits and   improvement in the physical condition of Ghana's road
Risks:         network, which would help remove, at least partially, one
of the most serious infrastructure constraints hindering
Ghana's economic recovery. By arresting further
deterioration and improving maintenance, the project
would help avoid substantial future capital expenditures
for road reconstruction, and would generate sizeable and
immediate savings in vehicle operating costs. At least
80 percent of these savings would be in reduced use of
foreign inputs, such as tires, spare parts, fuel, and
from the extended life of vehicles themselves. The
considerable benefits from the project will be ultimately
passed on to the transport user as reduced transport
costs, through the competitive transport market
prevailing in Ghana. The main project risks would be
slow project implementation as has been the case with the
ongoing Third Highway Project. The proposed project
incorporates measures designed to avoid the problems
faced by the preceding project. Moreover, the economic
environment in the country is improving, which should
support the successful implementation of the project.
This document has a resticted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  |
of their official dute Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local       Foreign       Total
(US$ Thousand)
Rehabilitation and Maintenance
of Trunk Roads:
(a) Rehabiliation/Maintenance (works,
equipment and materials to
GRA and local contractors)    25,207         24,222      49,429
(b) Tecbnical Assistance Program      613        3,710        4,323
(c) Training Program                  534         2,075       2,609
(d) Incentive Program               1,102        9,642       10,744
(e) Project Management                200         1,400       1,600
Bridge Rehabilitation Program          2,819         4,344       7,163
Pilot Feeder Roads Program             2,646         4,125       6,771
Rehabilitation of Accra-Kumasi
Road (Anyinam-Kumasi Section)       5,118        11,998      17,116
Repayment of PPF Advance                -            1,000       1,000
Total Base Cost                       38,239        62,516     100,755
Physical Contingencies                    966        2,148       3,114
Price Contingencies                    7,675        10,309      17,984
Total Project Cost (with Taxes)a/ 46,880         74,973     121,853
Financing Plan:
IDA                                 4,070        35,930      40,000
African Development Fund            1,940        16,200      18,140
Japanese Government                  -            2,000       2,000
World Food Program                   -            8,100       8,100
UNDP                                 -            1,360       1,360
Government                         40.870  a/   11.383       52,253
Total                               46,880       74,973     121,853
a/ Includes taxes of about US$17 million equivalent which Government wil.
absorb.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA Fiscal Year
1986      1987      1988      1989      1990
(US$ Million)
Annual          4.5      11.7      11.2       8.0       4.6
Cumulative      4.5      16.2      27.4      35.4      40.0
Economic Rate of Return:
The economic rate of return (ERR) for the total project, based
on quantifiable benefits, is about 53 percent. Sensitivity
analysis with an increase of 25 percent in project costs
together with a 25 percent reduction in project benefits
shows an ERR of about 28 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5479-GE, dated May 14, 1985
Map: IBRD 18727



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR A
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project to the Republic of Ghana in
an amount equivalent to SDR 40.4 million (US$40 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms. US$5 million of the proceeds of the Credit would be
relent to the Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC) for 12 years
including 3 years of grace at 12 percent per annum. Cofinancing of
US$18.1 million, $2 million, $8.1 million and $1.4 million equivalent
are expected respectively from the African Development Fund (AfDF), the
Japanese Government, the World Food Program (WFP) and the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP), all on grant basis except for AfDF which
would lend on the same terms and conditions as IDA.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Ghana: Managing the Transition""
was distributed to the Executive Directors in November 1984 (5289-GH).
A summary of the economic situation is presented in this section. Basic
economic data and selected social indicators are summarized in Annex I.
3.        Ghana once enjoyed a fairly high standard of living compared
with most other West African nations. However, a declining gross
national income has combined with high population growth (estimated at
about 3 percent a year) to cause a substantial erosion in real per
capita income. The average real income in 1983 is estimated at US$320,
which represents a substantial decline over what it was a decade ago.
The rate of unemployment is quite high and underemployment is wide-
spread. Almost half the population of about 12 million is now estimated
to live in absolute poverty. The country's basic needs indicators, once
the best in Africa, are no longer much better than those of other
Sub-Sahara African countries with comparable per capita incomes. Modern
health services are available to only about a third of the people and
fewer in rural areas; only 35 percent have access to safe water.
1/ This Part is substantially the same as Part I of the President's
Report for the Second Reconstruction Imports Credit which was
approved by the Executive Directors on March 28. 1985.



-2-
Although the education system is well established and elementary educa-
tion has been free since 1962, 50 percent of adult men and 70 percent of
adult women have had no formal education.
Basic Structural Characteristics
4.        Ghana is comparatively well endowed with natural and human
resources. The country has valuable mineral deposits, particularly
gold, but also diamonds, bauxite and manganese, and offshore oil. There
ifs further potential for hydro power generation. Ghana has a relatively
good supply of land suitable for growing cereals and starchy staples and
possesses considerable fishing and forestry resources.
5.        Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy, accounting
for over half of GDP. Only 11 percent of the land area is cultivated,
half of which is under cocoa. Nearly 70 percent of the population
derive an income from agriculture or related activities. The basic
staple foods are maize, rice, millet, yam, cassava, and plantain but,
except for cassava, yields of these crops have stagnated in recent
years. Food production in 1980 was only 88 percent 3f that in 1975.
Prolonged droughts in 1975-77 and 1982-83, inadequate support services,
poor transport facilities, and lack of fertilizers cad other inputs
contributed to the decline. In recent years, Ghana has had to import 10
to 15 percent of its cereal consumption (mainly rice and maize).
6.        Ghana's economy is highly dependent on primary products for
exports. Cocoa (of which Ghana is the world's third largest producer)
still contributes about two-thirds of total export earnings, although
production has been declining. Timber is also an important export item.
Mining is still Ghana's second largest foreign exchange earner, contrib-
uting 20 percent of the total, although production has been declining
over the past two decades. Efforts to diversify the export base have
not made much headway.
7.        Industrial production and services currently account for 7
percent and 40 percent of GDP, respectively. Manufacturing - including
textiles, steel, tires, oil refining and simple consumer goods -
contributed 3.4 percent of GDP in 1983 declining from 11.4 percent in
1970 and provided full- or part-time employment to just over one-tenth
of the labor force. However, manufacturing in Ghana remains heavily
dependent on imported inputs.
8.        Ghana used to import all of its petroleum, mostly in the form
of crude oil, which is refined domestically and used chiefly as a source
of fuel for the transport sector. Recently, some oil deposits have been
discovered and commercial exploitation has commenced. Production of
crude is now about 1,200 barrels per day, equivalent to 7 percent of the
country's requirements. Hydroelectric power meets most of Ghana's
non-transport commercial energy needs, altitough it has been drastically
affected by the drought in recent years.



-3-
Past Economic Developments - The Inheritance
9.        Throughout the 1970s, Ghanals economy was subject to gross
mismanagement. Large budgetary deficits, necessitated partly by the
need to support a sprawling, inefficient public sector, led to a marked
acceleration in domestic inflation. Given the reluctance to move the
exchange rate, the fixed nominal rate became grossly overvalued, shift-
ing relative incentives away from exports into import trade, and more
specifically from cocoa, Ghana's main export, into subsistence food
production. The resulting deterioration in export performance, combined
with a growing disenchantment on the part of aid donors with Ghana's
policy performance, caused a perpetual foreign exchange crisis that
pushed successive Governments into increasingly restrictive import
regimes. Thus, what was once an economy with ample imports became
starved of the main fuel for its growth. The erosion of the tax base
due to declining exports and imports, and the related decline in
economic activity forced severe cutbacks in Government operations and
maintenance and capital expenditures. Thus, foreign exchange shortages
and declining public expenditures contributed to the marked deteriora-
tion in what was once a fairly well developed economic and social
infrastructure. This, in turn, further reduced the country's productive
capacity.
10.       A tendency to respond to shortages with controls and rationing
worsened the problem; extensive price controls and widespread resort to
administrative price setting eroded the incentives to produce and save,
diminished the capacity of public sector entities to maintain the level
and quality of services, and created a vast parallel black market with
its related evils of corruption, smuggling and tax evasion. Declining
real wages, political instability and reduced economic opportunities led
talented and skilled Ghanaians to leave the country, depriving the
country of scarce managerial, administrative and technical skills.
11.       To add to all its difficulties, Ghana was subjected in the
early years of the present decade to three additional problems. First,
a prolonged and severe drought that created the worst food shortages
since Independence. Second, a sharp deterioration in external terms of
trade following the increase in petroleum import prices, and a softening
in prices of Ghana's major exports (cocoa, gold and manganese). Third,
the sudden and unexpected return of over one million Ghanaians from
Nigeria, placing a severe strain on the food and unemployment situation.
The cumulative effect of the downward economic spiral and these most
recent "shocks" to the system can be seen in the trends in key economic
indicators between 1970 and 1982: per capita real income declined by 30
percent; import volumes fell by a third; real export earnings fell 52
percent; domestic savings and investment declined from 12 and 14 percent
of GDP respectively in i970 to almost insignificant levels; inflation
averaged 44 percent per annum over the period.



-4-
A Program of Reforms
12.       The Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC) which came to
power under the leadership of Flt. Lt. Rawlings on December 31, 1981,
established a National Economic Review Committee early in 1982 to review
the country's economic difficulties and to develop an adjustment program
that would check this downward economic spiral and pave the way for
national economic recovery. An economic recovery program was developed
by the Government in close coordination with the IMF and the World Bank.
The program was supported in the period April 1983 to August 1984
through a (First) DMF Standby Arrangement for SDR 238.5 million and
through IDA financed operations including a Reconstruction Import Credit
(US$40 million) and two Export Rehabilitation Projects (US$93 million).
Support for the period August 1984 to December 1985 is being extended
through a (Second) IMF Standby Arrangement for SDR 180 million and a
Second IDA Reconstruction Imports Credit (US$60 million). Since its
inception, the Economic Recovery Program has focussed on: (a) establish-
ing a more realistic exchange rate, which has resulted in an exchange
rate movement from 0 2.75 = US$1.00 to 0 53.00 = US$1.00 within a
twenty-four month period; (b) establishing realistic relative prices and
incomes in the context of the new exchange rate. Cocoa producer prices
were raised by 67 percent to 0 20,000 per ton on May 1, 1983 and further
to 0 30,000 per ton for the current crop year (1984/85). A further
major increase is expected to be announced for the next crop year
(1985/86). In the case of all administered prices of imported goods and
services, or inputs, a full pass through of the higher cedi cost
following the exchange rate movement was effected. Public sector
salaries and wages, and statutory minimum wages were raised to offset in
part the drastic erosion in real incomes. Public utilities announced
substantial tariff adjustments to more realistic levels; (c) increasing
domestic resource mobilization, by an improved public savings effort,
and by improving the environment for private savings and investment.
Since the last one and a half years, all interest rates were raised by
65-70 pe-cent, or by 4.5-6.5 percentage poiats; and (d) rehabilitation
programs for key sectors designed to ensure a prompt supply side
response to the planned improvement in incentives. The three
IDA-financed import support credits are intended to help achieve such
response.
13.       Following the announcement of this program, the Bank, in
consultation with the Government, decided to reactivate the Ghana
Consultative Group, which had lain dormant for 13 years. There has been
a good response to this initiative. The Group met in Paris, first in
November 1983 and for the second time in December 1984, and has been
broadly supportive of the Goverment's program. Aid indications pro-
vided at the 1984 meeting of about $415 million, together with the
existing aid pipeline, could generate disbursements during 1985
exceeding US$300 million. This, together with the IMF Standby is
designed to help finance the third year of the economic recovery program
(1985) by (a) an increase in imports, which would in turn stimulate



-5-
domestic production and exports; and (b) a further reduction in Ghana's
past payments arrears (US$256.8 million at end December 1984).
Response of the Economy
14.       Data are inadequate to assess in depth the response of the
economy to this major dose of policy reforms.   However, it does appear
that while the country experienced almost no growth in 1983, economic
recovery was evident during 1984. The overall growth of the economy is
estimated at over 6 percent in 1984. This is the first major upswing
that Ghana"s economy has experienced since 1978. The weather provides a
major explanation for this improved performance although improved
supplies of imported inputs were also making an impact in the latter
half of 1984. The near normal rainfall patterns in 1984 have resulted
in a sharp recovery in agricultural production, and the consequent
decline in food prices since May 1984 is providing much needed relief.
Energy availability has also improved, as water levels rose in the
Akosombo and Kpong reservoirs, and as petroleum imports returned to more
normal levels. Capacity utilization in manufacturing, while still
unacceptably low, has improved compared to 1983. About one-half of the
one million returnees from Nigeria are believed to have re-migrated.
The response of donors to Ghana's recovery program in 1984 has also been
encouraging. While much remains to be done, Ghana now needs to build on
the momentum it has generated.
15.       The Budget.  In broad terms, the structure of the budget has
improved: (i) revenues financed 65 percent of current expenditures in
1982, 76 percent in 1983, and are estimated to finance 99 percent in
1984; (ii) the proportion of total expenditures financed by revenues has
risen from 57 percent to 82 percent; (iii) development expenditures and
net lending are estimated to rise from less than 5 percent of total
expenditures in recent years to about 14 percent in 1984; 2nd (iv) the
overall budget deficit fell from 4.4 percent of GDP at market prices in
1982 to 2.2 percent in 1983, and is estimated at 1.6 percent in 1984.
16.       Prices.  At the time the reform program was initiated, it  as
anticipated that inflation in 1983 could be held to around 50 percent.
This expectation did not materialize because of the severe drought and
the resultant increase in food prices which fuelled the 123 percent
increase in consumer prices in 1983. On a December to December basis,
the index of consumer prices rose by 142 percent during 1983. However,
in the eight months following the substantial exchange rate adjustment
in April 1983, prices rose by 50 percent. That inflation was not higher
is evidence of the fact that most prices already reflected scarcity
values, and that fiscal and monetary policies have been largely success-
ful in curbing inflation. The good rains and the abundant crops have
helped dramatically reduce inflation further in 1984, with the annual
rate through December 1984 down to 6.3 percent, yielding an annual
average rate of increase of 39.7 percent over 1983.
17.       Balance of Payments.  Preliminary data on the 1984 balance of
payments out-turn suggest a considerable improvement in the overall



-6-
balance of paymenta position over the drought affected 1983. This is
due to an improvement in Ghara's export Frices, and a substantial
increase tn capital receipts. The value of exports is estimated to have
risen to US$566 million, a 29 percent in:rease over the very low level
of 1983. The recovery of exports is led by cocoa, earnings from which
grew by some 45 percent. This i3 despite a decline in the volume of
cocoa exports, which at 165,000 tons reached a new low. However, unit
prices for cocoa have risen temporarily by over 50 percent above 1983
level. Cocoa exports are set to recover to some 200,000 tons in 1985.
Exports of other goods rose much more modestly in 1984 (12 percent over
low 1983 levels). Imports rose by some 21 percent. This partly
reflects the return to near normal levels of petroleum imports.
Non-petroleum imports are expected to rise by 17 percent. The terms of
trade improved in 1984 due mainly to the improvement in export prices.
The current account deficit of US$322 million at 3.5 percent of GDP is
substantially below original program projections. Net capital receipts
are projected to increase by some US$70 million to US$200 million in
1984. This is mainly on account of gross aid disbursements which are
expected to nearly double to US$298 million. The capital account might
have looked healthier but for the increase in the level of public sector
amortization payments betwreen 1983 and 1984 from US$95 million to US$123
million, delays on the part of donors in committing aew aid, and the
relatively slow initial pace of disbursement of such aid.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.       Ghana's medium- and long-term external public debt outstanding
and disbursed at end-1983 is estimated at about US$1.1 billion, repre-
senting less than 4 percent of GDP. The debt service of public and
publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term debt was estimated at around
10.7 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services in 1982.
However, it is estimated to have risen sharply to 34.2 percent in 1984
on account of both a further decline in export earnings and the expira-
tion date of the grace period on rescheduled debt. Arrears on Ghana's
short-te-rm debt went from US$245 million in 1977 to US$601 million by
the end of April 1983. The arrears are now being reduced in a phased
manner under the economic recovery program. By December 1984, they
declined to around US$256.8 million, a rate of reduction beyond the IMF
requirement. A further net reduction of US$60 million is planned for
1985.
19.       Ghana must rely on official sources for most of the external
capital required to support its development program; relatively little
of its medium- and long-term borrowing is on commercial terms. Conse-
quently, Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed at end-1983 (US$192.1
million) together represented about 17.5 percent of the country's
estimated public external debt of US$1.095 billion at end-1983. Service
payments on these loans and credits accounted for 25 percent of the
country's external debt service, but they are projected to decline rc 17
percent of external debt service by 1987 as other sources of lending
revive. Bank Group commitments on a per capita basis amounted to only
US$1.76 during 1977-82. Lending dropped to less than a project a year



-7-
during this period before increasing sharply in 1983 to support the
economic reform program.
20.       Ghana's extremely difficult economic situation and its vulner-
ability to fluctuations in cocoa export earnings make it desirable that
future debt service obligations be kept as low as possible. Consequent-
ly, Ghana will have to depend on IDA resources for Bank Group borrowing
over the next few years. This is also consistent with Ghana's relativ-
ely low per capita income. At the same time, to help ensure an adequate
flow of foreign exchange into the country and support the country's
resource mobilization efforts, it would be appropriate to finance a
significant portion of local costs of projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA 21
Lending Strategy
21.       The principal objectives which now guide the formulation of
the Bank's assistance program to Ghana are: (a) to support the adoption
of policies designed to adjust the structure and improve the efficiency
of the economy and return it to a path of growth; (b) to help rehabili-
tate and improve capacity utilization of the country's existing priority
assets; (c) to stimulate agricultural and industrial production, partic-
ularly for export promotion and efficient import substitution; and (d)
to improve the country's essential infrastructure (transport, water,
petroleum, power) and relieve major bottlenecks to increased production.
The Bank Group is undertaking a substantial program of economic and
sector work to broaden and deepen understanding of the constraints which
are likely to impede the recovery process, to provide direction to
future lending and the design of project components. An economic
memorandum is being prepared and, in preparation for the Second
Reconstruction Imports Credit, the Government budget and import program
for 1985 were reviewed in detail. A public expenditure review is also
being carried out. Agricultural and industrial sector stu:ies are at an
advanced stage of preparation as well as a transport sector note and a
mining sector review note. In both lending and economic sector work,
attention will be given to ways of strengthening the institutions
responsible for economic management and development spending.  The
Bank's dialogue has been most effective, and the Government continues to
be both receptive and responsive to the Bank's advice.
22.       In response to the Government's announcement of a major
economic reform program in April 1983, the Bank Group reopened its
2/ This Part is substantially the same as Part II of the President's
Report for the Second Reconstruction Imports Credit which was
approved by the Executive Directors on March 28, 1985.



- 8 -
lending to Ghana which had been put in abeyance for nearly two years due
to political and economic uncertainties and lack of proper economic
policies. The Executive Directors approved a US$40 million
Reconstruction Import Credit which aims to meet emergency import
requirements for the agricultural and transport sectors and is now
approaching successful completion. Two credits were also made for
export rehabilitation and related technical assistance. To aate,
despite some expected initial problems, the performance on projects
approved after April 1983 has been satisfactory. However, a major
impediment to Ghana's economic recovery is the dilapidated condition of
roads and low transport capacity. The proposed project is designed to
contribute to the Government's economic recovery program by removing
road transport obstructions to the vital export/import trade and the
movement of domestic farm outputs and inputs. The project will
strengthen the road agencies and improve transport planning including
rationalization of transport policies.
23.       In the near term, IDA expects to support programs to
rehabilitate Ghana's power distribution system and main parts as well
priority aspects of the education and health sectors. In agriculture,
an agricultural rehabilitation project emphasizing cash crops is
envisaged, given the importance of earning foreign exchange. Similarly,
in industry, the rehabilitation and restructuring of key subsectors is
envisaged. In brief, projects with major rehabilitation components are
likely to absorb the bulk of IDA resources for the next few years as
these are likely to show the highest benefits and quickest returns. IDA
is also maintaining a dialogue with the Government for a possible
structural adjustment credit in the near future. For the outer years,
IDA will begin to examine prospects for new productive investments and
other important activities in the social sectors. The extent to which
the Bank Group can provide financial and technical assistance to support
such a broad-based program will be conditioned upon the performance of
the Government in carrying through its economic recovery program.
Past Operations
24.       Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation
in Ghana, the Bank has made 10 loans totalling US$190.5 million and 28
credits totalling US$490.2 million. In addition, Ghana is a beneficiary
of a Bank-financed regional clinker project covering three countries
(Togo, Ivory Coast, and Ghana). An IFC investment of US$55 million in
Ashanti Goldfields Corporation in Ghana was approved in June 1984.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as
of March 31, 1985.
25.       Agriculture has been a major focus of Bank Group lending,
receiving 19.2 percent of the Bank Group's lending to Ghana. The main
thrust of the Bank Group's operations in agriculture has been to assist
the country in achieving greater self-sufficiency in agricultural
production, particularly food and raw materials for agro-industries, and
rehabilitating the cocoa subsector. In the energy sector, power genera-
tion and distribution has also been a major focus of Bank Group lending



-9-
(19.1 percent). The sector has been assisted by three hydro power
generation projects and three power distribution projects. A project
aimed at strengthening Ghana's technical capacity to accelerate petrole-
um exploration was approved in May 1983. A second project in the
sector, approved in March 1984, provides technical assistance and
financing of immediate requirements for rehabilitation of Ghana's sole
refinery. Transportation is the third most important sector in the Bank
Group's program in Ghana (14.2 percent of commitments). Projects
financed in this sector include three road projects (in 1973, 1975 and
1980) and a railway rehabilitation project approved in 1981. The two
Reconstruction Import Credits and the Export Rehabilitation Project are
providing partial emergency assistance to the road transport and port
sub-sectors. The Accra District Rehabilitation Project supports the
transport sub-sector in the Accra area as well as the strengthening of
the administrative and financial basis of the Accra City Council and the
improvement of a poorer part of the city. A telecommunications project
currently under implementation aims at improving and expanding domestic
telephone services in Accra and major urban centers.  In the field of
water supply three projects (in 1969, 1974 and 1983) have helped
increase and improve the water supply in the Accra/Tema metropolitan
area and adjacent rural areas, with the most recent one helping to carry
out emergency repairs and maintenance on main water pipelines. In the
manufacturing sector, two DFC operations (in 1975 and 1979) have
financed investment projects in manufacturing and agro-industry under-
taken by small and medium enterprises.
Project Implementation Experience
26.       The country's economic difficulties in recent years have
adversely affected a number of Bank Group-financed projects. Dwindling
Government revenues have denied projects needed local financing, and the
lack of foreign exchange has resulted in a severe shortage of imported
materials and spare parts required for completed projects. The mass
exodus of qualified Ghanaians to neighboring countries, and
demoralization, absenteeism and low productivity among the remaining
work force have also adversely affected project performance. The
unusually adverse conditions surrounding Bank Group-financed projects
and their generally poor performance have been described in greater
detail in the Project Performance Audit Reports. Overall, the main
conclusion of the reports was that macroeonomic and sectoral policy
constraints were the major factors responsible for poor performance of
the audited projects. Because of delays experienced in the
implementation of a number of Bank Group projects in Ghana, the
disbursement performance is behind appraisal estimates. Annual gross
disbursements over the four-year period FY81-84 have averaged about 20
percent of outstanding loan/credit commitments and as of March 31, 1985,
US$271.6 million remained undisbursed. The Bank Group has held periodic
implementation reviews with the Government to identify steps which could
be taken by borrowers and the Bank Group to accelerate disbursement on
ongoing loans and credits.



- 10 -
27.       In the roads sub-sector, the First and Second Highway Projects
achieved only mixed results. The Bank's combined audit report for both
projects noted that while the physical investments yielded acceptable
economic returns, the projects' achievements in meeting their institu-
tion-building objectives were rather limited. Moreover, the ongoing
Third Highway Project faced major problems in implementation (see para.
42 and 47). While this credit is 86 percent disbursed, general road
maintenance work has fallen far behind schedule for the reasons
discussed in para 42. It should be emphasized, as the audit report
does, that a good part of the problems of the previous projects arose
from political and macroeconomic instability which adversely affected
the transport sector.
IFC Operations
28.       IFC approved an investment of US$55 million in the mining
sector (Ashanti Goldfields Corporation Ltd.) in June 1984. This is
IFC's first investment in Ghana. The loan will help finance a US$158
million rehabilitation project designed to increase gold output from
about 255,000 oz. in 1984 to 400,000 oz. in 1989-90, a level of
production AGC last achieved in the early seventies before the deterio-
ration in Ghana's foreign exchange situation began to affect production
at the mine.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
29.       Ghana has a relatively well developed transport system com-
prising: (a) a network of about 14,100 km of trunk and urban arterial
roads. and about an equal length of feeder roads; (b) a railway system
of 947 km of main and branch lines in the southern half of the country;
(c) two major deep-water ports and several fishing ports; Cd) a small
inland water transport system on the Volta Lake; (e) a national maritime
shipping company, the Black Star Line; and (f) one international airport
at Accra and three main domestic airports, and a national airline, Ghana
Airways, providing international, regional and domestic air transport
services.
30.       The present capacity of virtually all transport modes in Ghana
is inadequate to meet even the current reduced level of demand, due to
lack of regular maintenance and upkeep for several years. Ghana's
transport system has nearly broken down over the past few years and
remains a serious constraint to economic recovery. The Government's
transport strategy emphasizes maintenance and rehabilitation rather than
creation of new capacity. About 85 percent of road transport which is
the dominant part of the transport system, is operated by the private
sector. The public sector, on the other hand, controls ports, lake
transport, railways and civil aviation. Though state intervention was a
major feature of policy in the past, the present Government has clearly



- 1.1 -
announced itself in favor of encouraging the private sector, reorganiz-
ing public sector organizations on more efficient lines, and privatizing
some of them if justified.
31.       Administration of the transport sector is the main responsi-
bility of two Ministries: (i) the Ministry of Transport and Communica-
tions (KOTC) which is responsible for the formulation and monitoring of
policies and programs of public and private sector organizations and for
overseeing the work of the public sector agencies in ports, shipping,
railways and air transport; and (ii) the Ministry of Roads and Highways
(MRH) which deals with the planning, construction and maintenance of
highways, urban roads and feeder roads. In addition, the Ministry of
Fuel and Power oversees the Volta Lake Transport Company.
32.       Ghana's railway system, operated by the Government-owned Ghana
Railway Corporation (GRC), has played a major role in carrying four of
Ghana's most important export products to the ports: bauxite, manganese,
timber and cocoa. Those four commodities constituted over 90 percent of
total rail traffic, which amounted to about 1.6 million tons per year in
the early seventies. In addition, close to 8 million passengers per
year were transported in 1972-74. However, in 1983, traffic was down to
356,000 tons and 3.3 million people. This decline was due to the
overall slump in economic activity, increased competitiveness of the
road transport industry, and steadily deteriorating efficiency of the
railway system. The ongoing Railway Rehabilitation Project (Credit
1170-CR) supports the reorganization and physical rehabilitation of the
system.
33.       Ghana's two major ports at Tema and Takoradi were built with
ample capacity but their present effective capacity is extremely limit-
ed. Port operations have become increasingly inefficient in recent
years due to the lack of handling equipment in working condition,
general deterioration of installations, lack of maintenance and dredging
for many years, and inefficient organization of the port agencies. The
port sub-sector is currently receiving emergency assistance from IDA for
spare parts and equipment, technical assistance and studies for the
reorganization of port sector management under the Export Rehabilitation
and associated Technical Assistance Projects. It is expected that a
medium-term rehabilitation plan for the ports will be finalized by
mid-1985, which will be the basis for an IDA-supported ports rehabilita-
tion project scheduled for FY86.
34.       Transport on the Volta lake is operated by the Volta Lake
Transport Company Ltd., which carried about 12,000 tons of goods and
53,000 passengers in 1983. The lake transport facilities are currently
being expanded with the help of a bilateral credit from the Federal
Republic of Germany.
35.       The international airport at Accra and domestic airports in
Kumasi, Sunyani, and Tamale are maintained and operated by MOTC.
Available infrastructure appears to be sufficient for present low
traffic volumes.



- 12 -
The Road Transport Subsector (See Map)
36.       Ghana's road network comprises about 28,300 km of classified
roads, of which about 6,000 km are paved, and the remainder gravel or
earth surfaced. The road system is further classified as about 14,130
km of trunk and semi-trunk roads and about 14,160 km of feeder roads.
Additionally, there are 6,000 km of village tracks and private mining
and timber company roads. About 70 percent of trunk roads and 80 percent
of feeder roads are located in the southern half of the country where
population and economic activities are concentrated.
37.       Traffic volumes are heaviest (about 3,000 vehicles per day)
near the Accra-Tema area, the country's capital and main port. In
general, traffic volumes have declined recently due to the poor condi-
tion of roads and shortage of vehicles. Fuel consumption data show an
almost steady growth of 3 percent per annum on average from 1970 to
1981, and a 40 percent decline from 1981 to 1983. With the expected
availability of larger fuel imports, vehicle spare parts and an upturn
in economic activity, traffic levels should rise agaiu in the near
future.
38.       The road transport industry is made up of three major
state-owned companies, one large and some 170 medium-size and small
private trucking companies (owning 4-5 vehicles on average), numerous
individual truck owners/operators, and a large number of private bus and
other passenger transport operators. Of the three state companies, the
State Transport Corporation (STC) provides trucking services for public
sector goods and scheduled inter-city passenger bus services while the
other two similar companies, which are likely to be merged in the near
future, provide public passenger transport services in major cities and
surrounding rural areas. Though these public sector companies do not
receive Government subsidies, the Government is currently studying the
possibility of reorganizing them in a more efficient manner. Entry in
the transport market is free. Any Ghanaian owning a roadworthy vehicle
and valid insurance coverage can operate goods or passenger transport
services along any route he chooses without Government licensing.
Private and state companies compete for available demand although the
public sector agencies have to call on STC first before approaching the
private sector. Transport tariffs are set by MOTC, based on a fairly
thorough analysis of vehicle operating costs and take into account, to
some extent, the higher black market prices to be paid by private sector
vehicle operators for purchasing various inputs. Official rates, which
are adjusted frequently in line with changes in price levels, are
strictly applied by the state companies while private companies
frequently charge more; actual rates in rural areas are reported to be
often 4-6 times higher.
39.       The fleet of privately owned roadworthy vehicles has decreased
by about 6 percent between 1979 and 1983 and now stands at about 74,000
units. The average age of the fleet is estimated at well over 10-15
years as there have been only minimal imports of new vehicles over the
recent past. The percentage of vehicles actually on the road was



- 13 -
estimated as low as 30 percent of the fleet in mid-1983 due to lack of
tires and spare parts, but may be about 60 percent in early 1985 largely
due to the assistance of IDA and other co-donors in financing imports of
tires and spare parts.
40.       Public roads come under the jurisdiction of The Ministry of
Roads and Highways (MRH), which operates essentially through two agen-
cies, the Ghana Highway Authority (GRA) for trunk roads, and the Depart-
ment of Feeder Roads (DFR) for feeder roads. In 1983, a third agency,
the Department of Urban Roads (DUR), was set up under MR to look after
urban roads, but its role and functions are yet to be properly
established; meanwhile, urban roads are presently under the technical
control of GHA. The organization of MRH, with its present structure
(GHA, DFR, DUR and their parallel regional units), is inefficient and
needs restructuring. The Government, with assistance from UNDP,
appointed consultants in December 1984 to study the reorganization of
the various agencies under MRH. Based on review of this study, an
action program for reorganization of the Ministry was agreed during
negotiations (Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
41.       GHA was established in 1974 as an autonomous body.  Its board
of directors was recently replaced by an interim management committee.
GRA has a staff and workforce of about 8,400 and carries out the
majority of routine maintenance and part of periodic maintenance of
trunk roads through its own work force; all other periodic maintenance
and construction/reconstruction works are done through contractors,
administered by GRA. In terms of overall cost, contractors executed
about 80 percent of the works and GHA about 20 percent in 1984. DFR has
a staff and work force of nearly 2,000, and functions as a Government
department without much autonomy. It deals with feeder road planning,
construction, and maintenance, through its central, regional and
district offices. Feeder road construction and maintenance (other than
routine maintenance) are being done almost entirely through contractors,
administered by DFR.
42.       GRA is beset with many problems.  In addition to inadequate
funds, it has about 65 percent of its engineering positions vacant and a
surplus of unskilled staff. Despite Government's efforts, assisted by
the Second and Third Highway Projects, only about 20-25 percent of the
road system's actual maintenance needs have been met during the past
10-12 years, and even less recently (19 percent during 1981-84). As a
result, roads have deteriorated to such an extent that some important
sections have become practically impassable, and road transport costs
are high all over the country. This condition will continue to worsen
unless measures are taken immediately. The main factors responsible for
GRA's poor performance have been:  (i) insufficient foreign and local
inputs and shortages of fuel, materials and spare parts due to the
critical financial situation of the Government; (ii) delays in payment
to contractors and, more recently, in adjustment of contractor rates
after the 1,700 percent devaluation since April 1983; (iii) inefficient
management of GRA, particularly of its workshops and stores; and (iv)
below subsistence level wages for Government workers, resulting in lack



- 14 -
of incentives, high absenteeism (50 percent in some units) and low
productivity, resulting in a virtual breakdown of the routine
maintenance which is dependent on G1A's work force. Indeed, GHA's
continued operation is primarily due to the tenacity and devotion of a
few competent managers at the top of the organization.
43.       Under the ongoing Third Highway Project and in preparation for
the proposed project, GRA devised the following measures in 1983-84 to
improve its performance: Firstly, it employed a consulting firm to be in
charge of the problem-ridden workshops and stores, a decision which has
already improved their performance significantly. These consultants are
also studying a reorganization of the workshops and of the entire
equipment maintenance system. Secondly, GRA, in consultation with the
Association, commissioned a manpower study, which will be the basis for
GHA's intended reduction of surplus staff (para. 58). Under the
proposed project, GHA will increase training and bring in expatriate
line managers to help fill professional vacancies temporarily while new
Ghanaian staff are trained.  Thirdly, CHA set up a Mobile Maintenance
Unit (MMU), with Japanese aid, which has produced impressive results in
pavement rehabilitation and resealing works. Essentially, the MMU is a
project unit organized under a project manager with technical staff,
equipment support, autonomy, a defined work program, special
output-related cash incentives, and which reports directly to GRA, thus
avoiding political interference at the regional level. A second MMU
will be created under the proposed project. Fourthly, GHA has already
introduced "single-man contractors" with responsibility for roadside
maintenance of about 5 km stretches of road, and a maintenance contract
with a timber company. Road maintenance should improve under the
proposed project with the expansion of the above measures.
44.       In 1984, GHA had a total capital and development budget of
1,568 million (US$45 million equivalent at the average exchange rate of
US$1 = 035 prevailing in FY84) and DFR had a capital budget of 0496
million (US$14.2 million equivalent). These amounts were grossly
inadequate to meet needs. All financing for investments in and
maintenance of roads comes from the Government. Although additional
resources are needed, current road user charges are insignificant (para.
52).
45.       The Second and Third Highway Projects provided, among other
items, financial and technical assistance to domestic road maintenance
contractors and quarry operators, channelled through the Bank for
Housing and Construction (BEC). The Third Highway Project also Included
institution building for BHC, and indirect technical assistance for
Plant Pool (a BEC subsidiary) and domestic contractors. The proposed
project would provide additional inputs for assisting contractors and
BEC. While the contractors have generally performed much better than
GRA, they have recently faced major problems due to delays in
contractual payments and in revising contract rates to account for
increased prices after major devaluations, as well as difficulty in
getting imported spare parts and fuel. In order to solve the problem of
rate adjustments, and to ease part of the debt burden on domestic



- 15 -
contractors who were BHC's sub-borrowers under the Third Highway Project
(para. 47), the Government has provided assurances that contractors'
unit rates under existing road maintenance or rehabilitation contracts
would be adjusted by December 31, 1985 to reflect devaluations and price
increases since January 1, 1983. The Government already announced in
November 1984 changes in unit rates to reflect increases up to March
1984, which will be implemented retroactively. Furthermore, as from
January 1. 1986, automatic adjustments of contractors' unit rates for
road works would be made to reflect changes in exchange rates or prices
in accordance with a formula acceptable to IDA (Section 4.03, draft
Development Credit Agreement).
46.       BHC is a Government owned development bank established by
decree in November 1972, with an authorized share capital of ¢20.0
million. Its two major areas of activities are commercial banking
(about 40 percent of total portfolio) and industrial loans, mainly to
contractors and for the production of building materials (about 50
percent of total portfolio). Due to reasons largely beyond its control
(e.g., serious staff constraints and interruption of technical assis-
tance due to political turmoil), its performance under the Third Highway
Project, though slightly better than under the Second Project, remained
at best, marginal. BHC continues to suffer from institutional and
financial problems. On the institutional side, procedures remain weak
and the bank is understaffed. On the financial side, BBC's continued
weak financial management and high portfolio arrears, coupled with the
effects of the recent series of devaluations of the Cedi, which have
significantly eroded the dollar equivalent of BEC's net worth (from
US$12.8 million in June 1982 to US$1.4 million in June 1984), have
resulted in a deterioration of its term debt/equity ratio to 29.5:1.
However, BHC's board has recently approved a capital increase and other
financial measures whicb, when they become effective, would improve
BHC's net worth significantly and raise its term debt/equity ratio to
10:1. At least this is a first step towards the right direction.
47.        Although the Third Highway Project provides for the
sub-borrowers of BHC to assume the foreign exchange risk, two major
problems further compound its alread7 difficult financial situation.
Firstly, although the sub-borrower assumes the foreign exchange risk up
to the point of repayment to BHC, the Government is to assume all such
risks during the time elapsed between collection from sub-borrowers by
BBC and actual repayment to Government. However, due to political
changes in the interim, the relevant approved subsidiamy loan agreements
between the Government and BRC were signed only in April 1985.
Secondly, since the loan and purchase of equipment by the sub-borrowers
were made before devaluation, and the Cedi equivalent of the loan has
now substantially increased, the resultant additional debt burden has
become a collection problem for BHC.
48.       Notwithstanding the problems noted above, a reorganization of
BBC with an able and dedicated top management team an' the recruitment
of 12 new professionals in 1984 have brought about some improvement.
Furthermore, the Government and BHC have agreed on the adoption of an



- 16 -
action program by September 30,1985 to strengthen the financial
condition and operational and financial management capabilities of BEC
(Section 4.04, draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.14,
draft BHC Project Agreement); the main elements of the proposed action
program have been agreed with the Association.
Transport Sector Issues and the Bank's Strategies
49.       A Transport Sector Strategy Note (TSSN) prepared by the Bank
and focusing on the country's main transport problems and policy issues
was recently reviewed with Government officials. The TSSN proposes a
coordinated approach linking policy and institutional reforms to a
phased program of assistance. From the conclusions of the report and
the dialogue with the Government, the IMF and other major donors, it is
clear that the Bank Group's transport strategy should continue to
concentrate on rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing roads,
bridges and ports, together with a strong emphasis on institutional
improvement and local staff training. While the TSSN provides a
reference point for further action and follow-up by the Government and
the Association, the three issues highlighted below need to be dealt
with in the context of the proposed project.
50.       Investment Planning.  Investment planning has been weak and
needs strengthening (para. 53).  It is important that (a) rehabilitation
of the transport sector receive high priority in the allocation of
resources in view of the dilapidated condition of the basic transport
infrastructure and its key role in facilitating economic recovery;
(b) funding for high priority projects should be adequate, while funding
for non-priority projects should be excluded; and (c) there should be
proper monitoring of progress in project execution and financing.
Accordingly, the Government and IDA have agreed (a) to a joint review
annually between 1985 and 1990 of the Government's annual investment
program for the transport sector for the three years subsequent to the
review, beginning with the 1986-88 period and including detailed
physical work programs and projects in all transport modes, and (b) to
monitor jointly implementation of the programs at six-month intervals
(Section 4.05, draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.       Allocations in the Government's capital budget for 1985 have
already been agreed with the Association in the context of the Second
Reconstruction Import Credit. Of the 08.25 billion estimated budget
(US$156 million), about 45 percent is allocated for transport,
reflecting the high priority which rehabilitation of the transport
system plays in the economic recovery of Ghana. The proposed project is
part of the Governent's core development program for roads during
1985-88, and has been reviewed by the Association.
52.       Road User Charges.  Road users make practically no contribu-
tion to road maintenance and rehabilitation costs. Gasoline and diesel
prices in Ghana are currently only slightly above international prices
at the current over-valued exchange rate, thus yielding no significant
fuel tax revenue from road users. The Government has agreed to levy a



- 17 -
fuel tax (gasoline and diesel) of 05 per gallon and to deposit the
proceeds in a Road Fund. Proceeds from a new vehicle use tax and
existing tolls would also be added to the Road Fund. Based on 1983
consumption levels, the lowest in recent times, annual yield from the
fuel tax and other levies would be approximately 0610 million or US$11.5
million equivalent (about 25 percent of the estimated annual periodic
maintenance requirements). Further, the Government has agreed to
complete before December 31, 1985 a study on the structure and adequacy
of road user charges with the objective of attaining coverage .of at
least 50 percent of the cost of annual periodic maintenance requirements
as from January 1, 1991, through suitable periodic increases in user
charges (Section 4.06, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Establishment of the road user tax and the Road Fund would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(a), draft Development
Credit Agreement). Since the proposed project covers the highest
priority investments in the road subsector, Road Fund revenues during
1986-89 (the project implementation period) would be utilized to meet
the local costs under the project; all remaining funds would be
allocated in accordance with the priorities established in consultation
with the Association while reviewing road sector investment plans.
53.       Transport Planning.  To provide sector-wide planning support
for Ghana's transport sector, the Government, the UNDP and the Associa-
tion have recently prepared a coordinated program, which vill be largely
financed by UNDP under the proposed project. The program provides for
technical assistance and other support to strengthen planning units in
HOTC, GRA and DFR. The planning units will, in coordination with one
another, prepare investment plans for the sub-sector concerned, conduct'
project evaluation, improve collertion and analysis of statistics. and
conduct studies and analyses of tiansport problems, with expatriate
assistance as needed.  Further, as part of reorganisation of NRH, UNDP
will assist in setting up a Budgeting, Planning and Programming
Department in NRH. NRH will monitor and coordinate the planning work
done by GHA and DFR, and also coordinate with MOTC and the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning. UNDP has already initiated assistance
for the MOTC planning unit.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
54.       The project was originally prepared with a Project Preparation
Facility advance of US$1 million granted in August 1981, but held in
abeyance because of the adverse macroeconomic situation in Ghana. After
the introduction of the Government's economic recovery program in 1983,
the project was appraised in September 1984. Negotiations were held in
Washington in April 1985; the Ghanaian delegation was headed by Mr. 0.
Edward Donkor, PNDC Secretary for Roads and Highways and included
representatives from the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning,
Ghana Highway Authority and Bank for Housing and Construction.
Supplementary data on the project are presented in Annex III.



_ 18 -
Project Objectives
55.       The project is designed to contribute to the Government's
economic recovery program by removing key road transport obstructions to
the vital export/import trade and to the movement of domestic farm
inputs and outputs. The objectives are: (a) to strengthen the road
agencies under MR and revitalize maintenance through increased private
sector participation and improved management in GHA and DFR coupled with
staff incentives and systematic training programs; (b) to reduce
transport costs and protect investments in the road sub-sector through
improved maintenance; (c) to rehabilitate part of the most important
trunk road in the country; (d) to foster the rehabilitation and recovery
of the agricultural sector mainly through feeder road improvement and
maintenance; (e) to improve transport planning and to reorient transport
investment through careful selection of high priority investments and
increased emphasis on rehabilitation and maintenance; and (f) to improve
mobilization and utilization of resources through the rationalization of
transport policies, including adjustment of road user charges.
Project Description
56.       To assist in fulfilling the objectives, the project would
provide financial assistance for the following components: (a) three-
year (1986-88) requirements for rehabilitation and maintenance of
Ghana's trunk road network comprising: (i) a three-year time slice of
GHA's road maintenance program including regravelling. paved road
resurfacing and minor improvements, as well as road and equipment
maintenance management and support to domestic road contractors through
sub-loans through BHC; (ii) a technical assistance program, benefitting
MRH, GHA, DFR, BEC, and domestic road maintenance contractors; (iii) a
training program for staff of GHA and DFR; (iv) food aid and incentive
program to reduce absenteeism and to increase productivity of MRE and
its agencies; and (v) project supervision and coordination; (b) a bridge
rehabilitation program; (c) a three year pilot feeder roads program
with DFR, comprising road and drainage improvements and maintenance; and.
(d) rehabilitation of about 105 km of the Accra-Kumasi road.
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of the Trunk Road Network
57.       Road Maintenance Program. To improve the condition of the
trunk road network so that normal mnintenance activities can be carried
out, GHA will continue to rely mainly on domestic contractors for
bitumen resurfacing and regravelling works. GRA will also add a second
MMD (para. 43) to carry out paved road rehabilitation and resurfacing.
The proposed three-year periodic maintenance program would only cover
about 30 percent of the actual needs mainly because of funding con-
straints. However, this represents about a 60 percent increase over the
maintenance level achieved during 1981-84. The program is within the
administrative and technical capacity of GRA and its contractors. The
list of roads for resurfacing and minor improvements under the program,
the regional location and lengths of roads to be covered under resealing
and regravelling have been agreed with GHA. The lists of roads will be



- 19 -
reviewed annually between the Association and GRA (Section 4.05, draft
Development Credit Agreement). Government has agreed that the selection
of specific roads will follow priorities based on economic criteria, and
will be such that investment on any road would yield an estimated
economic return of at least 15 percent from savings in vehicle operating
costs.
58.       Further, to ensure GHA's organizational reform, agreement has
been reached on the following: (a) initiation by July 1, 1986 of an
agreed action program for the reorganization of GRA's equipment
management as well as a personnel management program acceptable to IDA
(Sections 3.04 and 4.02, draft GHA Project Agreement); and (b) adoption
of a plan to transfer an increasing portion of road maintenance works to
contractors so that all periodic maintenance beyond the capacity of the
two MMU's would be undertaken by contractors by December 31, 1989
(Section 4.02, draft GHA Project Agreement). As part of (a), GHA has
indicated its intention to reduce its staff from 8375 to about 6700 by
December 1988.
59.       GHA equipment management was placed under the direct manage-
meut of consultants in May 1984. This arrangement will be continued and
strengthened under the project. The services to be provided by GHA
workshops throughout the country have been redefined by the consultants
and will be consolidated. The project would improve workshop and store
facilities, provide spare parts, tools and machinery and about 165
man-months of technical assistance. Each specialist would take direct
managerial responsibility during the initial years of the project.
Counterparts would be trained during this period to take over the
management functions. The spare parts and materials purchased and
warehoused under the project by GHA, DFR and Plant Pool would be rein-
sured with a foreign insurance company. Agreement has been reached, in
principle, on the locations and functions of GHA workshops, which will
be refined under the project, and on a timetable for implementing the
new physical and administrative structure for managing GHA's fleet, as
well as insurance arrangements covering warehousing of spare parts
(Section 3.08, draft Development Credit Agreement; Section 2.13, draft
BBC Project Agreement; and Section 3.03, draft GRA Project Agreement).
60.       BHC will finance the acquisition of equipaent, spares and
other inputs to be made available to contractors, quarry operators and
the Plant Pool, through sub-loans. Plant Pool will make such equipment,
spares and inputs available to GHA and DFR contractors engaged under the
project, through hire or direct sales under terms acceptable to the
Association. New metallic bins will be installed to increase Plant
Pool's storage capacity. Specialized ass.atance to domestic road
contractors and quarry owneis in their operations will be continued
through the Project Management Unit (para. 66). Negotiated contracts
will be initially continued under the project but from January 1, 1988
all new contracts would be awarded through local competitive bidding
(Section 3.05, draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 20 -
61.       Tachnical Assistance Program.  The project would provide
technical assistance for: (1) workshop and stores management (165
"an-months); (ii) strengthening the planning and budgeting units in ME
and GHA (54 man-months); (iii) planning and project execution for DFR
(97 man-months); and (iv) preparation of a follow-up project and other
studies, including a study on road user charges (50 man-months). It
will also provide foreign exchange support for continuing GRA's program
of employing expatriate regional engineers as supervisory field staff,
which was recently curtailed due to foreign exchange shortage.. Other
technical assistance includes support for BBC (71 man-months), and a
Bridge Maintenance Unit (20 man-months). Such a large input of
consultancy personnel is needed because of shortage of experienced
Ghanaian engineers as a result of large-scale emigration.
62.       Technical assistance to BEC based upon a detailed action plan
(para. 48) would be provided by a suitable overseas banking institution
engaged in similar activities and/or experienced, operationally-involved
experts. The technical assistance would formulate, document and
implement appropriate and effective guidelines and procedures covering
BHC's policy statements, organization structure and operations. The
assistance, covering about 71 man-months, will involve seven largely
"in-place" operationally involved experts.  The action plan for BHC and
terms of reference for the related technical assistance have been agreed
at negotiations (Section 2.14, draft BEC Project Agreement). The action
plan includes management reinforcement, the gradual phasing out of
excess and/or unsuitable staff, recruitment and training of qualified
staff, the improvement of the accounting and management information
system and the capabilities of project appraisal and supervision.
63.       Trainiug Program for GHA and DFR.  A comprehecsive program to
train and upgrade MRR, GRA and DFR personnel at all levels engaged in
road/equipment maintenance will be administered by GHA with the assis-
tance of consultants. The project will support a three-year tranche of
a continuing program to train some 1,600 maintenance personnel. The
consultants will assist GEA in setting up and running road and
mechanical training production units; after the second year, GHA will
take over the management of the training program. The project will
provide equipment and tools for the two units to function independently
of other GEA activities, as well as training aids and course material.
The project would provide about 110 man-months of training assistance,
incentives for counterparts, instructors and trainees and operating
materials for the two production units.
64.       In view of acute shortage of trained highway engineers and
managers, the project will provide one-year academic and practical
courses for about six engineers, short-term courses or attachments to
foreign highway organizations and participation at relevant internation-
al seminars. Also, funds will be provided to upgrade teaching and
experimental equipment at the University of Science and Technology in
Kumasi, the sole source of highway engineers in Ghana.



- 21 -
65.       Food Aid and Incentive Program.  Arrangements have been made
with the World Food Program (WFP) to supply food imports to employees of
HRH and its agencies, through GHA.   The food aid will be in items which
will not adversely affect local production. In order to link the food
aid with increased productivity, norms for the food distribution program
linked to reduced absenteeism and increased productivity will be
established. These arrangements are similar to those which are being
successfully carried out under the Railway Project and the port
component of the Export Rehabilitation Project. The project will also
provide other incentives such as provision of staff quarters for key
personnel, and worker transport.
66.       Project Supervision and Coordination.  To provide coordination
between BHC, GHA, DFR and private domestic contractors and to supervise
the project, a Project Management Unit (PHU) would be established for
the duration of the project with terms of reference acceptable to IDA
(Section 3.04(a), draft Development Credit Agreement). The PMU would be
staffed by an experienced team of consultants (about 130 man-months) and
supported by qualified local staff. PMH would be an autonomous unit as
far as its management and coordinating functions are concerned. It
would be attached to, and assist the new Monitoring and Evaluation
Dcpartment within MRH in defining and carrying out its functions. It
would train, through on-the-job demonstrations and courses, staff of
HRH, GHA, DRF and BHC, in all areas covered by PMU's functions. These
functions will be gradually absorved by the Monitoring and Evaluation
Department which will fully take them over by the end of the project.
PHU would administer the procurement for domestic contractors under the
relevant authority of DFR, GHA and BHC. The engagement of the PMU
consultants would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(b),
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Bridge Rehabilitation Program
67.        A country-wide survey of bridges financed under the PPF
identified those in need of reconstruction or rehabilitation. Of these,
11 of the most critical will be repaired and three reconstructed under
the project. The detailed design work has been completed and the
bidding process has started. GHA will also establish a bridge
maintenance unit within its Maintenance Division with 20 man-months of
technical assistance to ensure that preventive maintenance is carried
out correctly and in a timely manner. Details of the program, the terms
of reference for technical assistance, and the organization and staffing
of the bridge maintenance unit have been prepared by GRA and agreed with
the Association.
Pilot Feeder Roads Program with DFR
68.       The three-year pilot feeder roads program will be carried out
in accordance with the study which was completed in March 1985 by DFR
with assistance of consultants and IL0 (Section 3.07, draft Development
Credit Agreement), and comprises (a) rehabilitating, maintaining and



- 22 -
improving about 2,900 km of feeder roads; and (b) strengthening DFR's
planning and maintenance capacity. The initial program is in the nature
of a pilot effort in limited areas with the intention of gradually
replicating it in other regions. All work would be essentially
labor-intensive to be carried out by local contractors for road
rehabilitation and force account for spot improvements and maintenance.
Equipment would be made available to the contractors through sub-loans
from BHC or through rental arrangements with Plant Pool. DFR would hire
consultants to assist it in executing the program (about 97 man-months).
Design standards to be applied under the project, and the terms of
reference and counterpart staffing have been agreed with DFR.
Rehabilitation of the Accra-Kumasi Road
69.       A major portion of the Accra-Kumasi road (256 km) is in a
seriously deteriorated state. Consultant studies indicate that the
northern Anyinam-Kumasi section (136 km) urgently requires an asphalt
overlay to protect the sub-base and base; however, funding for only
105 km is expected to be available. This component will be financed by
the African Development Fund (90 percent of costs) and the Government
(10 percent). The consultants have completed the detailed engineering
and will be responsible for work supervision; the bidding process has
commenced. In view of the keen interest shown by contractors in
prequalifying, and anticipated highly competitive bidding, AfDF will
invite tenders for the entire length of 136 km; the length of road to be
.ehabilitated will be determined by the funding available.
Refinancing the PPF
70.       To assist Ghana in preparing the project, IDA granted an
advance of US$1.0 million from the PPF in August 1981. The funds were
used to finance the necessary engineering work in connection with the
bridge and highway rehabilitation programs. The work has been
completed.
Project Cost and Financing
71.       The estimated total cost of the project, including contingen-
cies, is US$121.8 million equivalent, inclusive of taxes of about
US$17.0 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component is about
US$75.0 million or 62 percent of the total cost. Costs have been
estimated at April 1985 prices. Costs include an average physical
contingency of about 3 percent. This low rate is assumed because most
of the project cost covers a 3 year (1986-88) time slice of the
Government's road maintenance and feeder roads program. There is also a
provision for price escalation of about 17 percent, based on estimated
foreign inflation of 5 percent for 1985, 7.5 percent for 1986 and 8
percent for 1987-1990. Estimated rates of inflation on foreign costs
have been applied to both foreign and local costs. This assumes that
any persistent divergence in foreign and local rates of inflation will
have to be corrected by exchange rate adjustments. The project would be
financed by IDA (US$40.0 million equivalent), AfDF (US$18.1 million



- 23 -
equivalent), Japanese Government (US$2.0 million equivalent), WFP
(US$8.1 million equivalent), and UNDP (US$1.4 million equivalent).
Government will bear US$11.4 million in foreign exchange and US$40.9
million equivalent in local costs. Government's contribution will cover
44 percent of total costs including taxes. The above cofinancing
arrangements are firm, but have yet to be formally committed. The
Government gives the highest priority to this project in the current
development budget because transport bottlenecks have been hampering the
implementation of the economic recovery program, and have allocated
enough funds to cover its contribution to this project. However, given
the foreign exchange shortage the Government is facing, it would be
desirable to relieve the Government from making a foreign exchange
contribution. Therefore, efforts will be continued to obtair. furtner
cofinancing, and the Government and IDA have obtained positive signs
from two of the possible cofinanciers so far approached.
72.       In addition to US$1.0 million for technical assistance and
related inputs which will be passed on to BHC in the form of a grant,
the Government will relend US$5 million of the credit proceeds for 12
years including 3 years of grace at 12 percent per annum to BHC for
onlending, for equipment and other inputs, to (i) private domestic
contractors and quarry operators who execute GHA/DFR road maintenance
contracts; and (ii) Plant Pool. BHC's sub-borrowers would assume the
foreign exchange risk but would be substantially protected by automatic
adjustments in contracting rates following devaluation (para. 45). They
would pay an interest rate of 20 percent per annum with up to 12 years
repayment period including 3 years of grace. The domestic inflation
rate, 39 percent in 1984, should continue to subside provided Governmeut
continues with its economic stabilization program. The Government is
committed to achieving positive interest rates by the middle of 1986.
The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
BHC would be a condition of disbursement for the BHC sub-loans
(para 3(b)(i), Schedule 1, draft Development Credit Agreeneat).
73.       The local currency contribution would be made available by the
Government from the Road Fund and through its budgetary allocations.
The Government has agreed to: (i) cause PKU to prepare and present to
IDA for approval a program of work for GRA and DFR and related estimates
of expenditures one month prior to the commencement of each quarter; and
(ii) furnish GRA and DFR the local funds to meet their expenditure needs
for each quarter one month before the start of such quarter (Section
3.06, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Implementation
74.       ThLe project would be implemented by GRA and DFR under the
authority of MRM, and by BHC insofar as financial assistance to the
domestic contracting industry is concerned. The PM[ will provide
overall coordination and management of the various project elements, and
assist the domestic road construction industry. The project is expected
to be physically completed by December 31, 1989.



- 24 -
Procurement
75.         Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:
Amounts and Methods of Pioee Went a/
(USS million)
Total
PFoEurenent Method                       Project
Items to be Procured                       1CB       L          Otber         NA          Cost
Equipment, spares, fuel, batteries,      10.0        5.0       17.0                       32.0
tires, b/                               (10.0)      (2.0)      (3.0)                     (15.0)
Road Maintenance Works d/                            9.2        9.2                       18.4
(3.6)      (3.6)                     (7.2)
Technicat Assistance                                            5.8                        5.8
Program                                                        (4.8)                      (4.8)
Project Supervision  el                                         3.6                       3.6
(2.6)                     (2.6)
Training Program                                     0.5        0.3                        0.8
(0.3)      (0.3)                     (0.6)
Incentive Program
(food aid)                                                      8.1                       8.1
Bridge Rehab Works                         7.3                                             7.3
(5.5)                                          (5.5)
Feeder Rd Works                                      3.7        0.5 f|                    4.2
(2.2)      (0.3)                     (2.5)
Road Rehab Works                        20.2 Xl                                           20.2
Misc. Works h/                                       3.3                                  3.3
(0.8)                                (0.8)
Refinancing PPF                                                              1.0          1.0
(1.0)        (1.0)
Total Project              37.5      21.7        44.5          1.0         104.7
(15.5)     (8.9)     (14.6)        (1.0)        (40.0)
a/ Amount financed by IDA in parenthesis; costs exclude taxes.
b/ For GEA, BBC, and DFR.
c/  Includes US$2.0 m financed by Japanese Government and USS12.4 m for proprietary spares and
equipment.
d/ Contract and force account works.
e/ PHU, construction supervision of bridges and road rehabilitation works,
and training program.
El  Force account.
v&I Financed by AfDF.
h/ Includes workshops, housing, training quarters, etc.



- 25 -
76.       Procurement of civil works under the bridge component will be
carried out under ICB in line with IDA guidelines. Consultants for
technical assistance and project supervision will be appointed as called
for under Bank guidelines. PMU would coordinate and facilitate
procurement for BEHC, GHA and DFR, and would group items, where
practical, with other similar items financed under the project in order
to benefit from bulk purchasing. International shopping involving price
quotations from at least 3 suppliers would be permitted for equipment
and spare parts of a proprietary nature or where standardization is
important for efficient operation. Contracts for supply of goods,
estimated to cost less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate of
US$1.0 million, may be procured under local bidding procedures. All
other goods will be procured under ICB in line with IDA guidelines.
Civil works for periodic maintenance will also follow local procurement
procedures. Local bidding procedures were reviewed and found
satisfactory.
77.       All procurement under the project except contracting for
services, will be reviewed by PHU for compliance with credit and guide-
line provisions. Bidders will be prequalified for bridge works. All
transactions in excess of US$100,000 equivalent will be subject to prior
approval by IDA. Goods manufactured locally will be given a preference
margin of up to 15 percent or the applicable customs duty, whichever is
less. Local contractors will have a 7.5 percent preference for civil
works under ICB.
78.       To the extent that the project cannot obtain fuel supplies
through normal channels in an adequate and timely manner, the Government
will make special arrangements to ensure that contractors and quarry
operators will be supplied with the necessary fuel to carry out the
project (Section 3.09, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursements
79.       Disbursement of the IDA Credit of US$40 equivalent million
would be on the basis of: 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
directly imported equipment, materials, office equipment, vehicles and
reinsurance of warehoused spare parts and 70 percent of expenditures for
locally procured equipment and materials; 100 percent of expenditures
for consultant services, training and studies; 16 percent of
expenditures for GHA related civil works by force account, and
contracted civil works other than those for bridge rehabilitation; 100
percent of foreign expenditures and 50 percent of local expenditures for
contracted bridge rehabilitation civil works; 60 percent of expenditures
for MRH and DFR related civil works. Retroactive financing of up to
$0.5 million for GHA consultants from September 1984 would be permitted.
The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1990.
80.       A Special Account will be established and controlled by PMU
for GRA, DFR and BEC-managed components in a commercial bank autiorized
to deal in foreign currencies.



- 26 -
81.       An advance of US$2.0 million in IDA funds to the Special
Account would be made after Credit effectiveness. The Special Account,
which would cover all categories of expenditures, would be replenished
following applications for reimbursement by PMU, together with appropri-
ate supporting documents or statements of expenditure (SOEs), as well as
bank statements of the Special Account. Reimbursement applications
would be submitted to IDA on a monthly basis or whenever payments were
in excess of 25 percent of the amount advanced to the Special Account.
Disbursements would be made against SOEs in the case of eligible force
account civil works, local training programs, and contracts of less than
US$20,000 equivalent. PMU would manage all accounting records, but
preparation of the respective project accounts would be the respon-
sibility of GHA, DFR, BHC, and other departments and agencies (Section
4.01(b), draft Develepment Credit Agreement).
Accounting and Auditing
82.       The accounting, costing, budgeting and internal audit systems
are well established in GEA. Cost and financial accounts, however, need
to be adequately integrated to enable GEA to produce reliable and timely
reports on expenditures on road maintenance and equipment operations.
Domestic contractors and quarry operations and workshop costing need
special attention to institute sound cost accounting procedures.
Technical assistance and training to establish accounting and costing
systems for GRA and DFR would be provided by PM1. Independent auditors
acceptable to the Association wili be engaged to carry out specific
audits of the Special Account, project accounts, PMU's accounting
records and stores and workshop accounts and provide the audit report to
IDA within 4 months of the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.01
(c)(ii), draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition, GEA and BHC
would appoint independent auditors acceptable to the Association and
would provide the audited report on their overall accounts to the
Association within 6 and 4 months respectively of the end of each fiscal
year (Section 4.01 (b)(ii), draft GEA Project Agreement and Section
3.01(b)(ii), draft BEC Project Agreement). The PMU will submit
quarterly reports on project implementation and expenditures, including
key indicators for monitoring progress of the project and efficiency of
operations.
Benefits and Risks
83.       It is difficult to quantify the sizeable macro-economic
benefits to Ghana that would result from the proposed project by remov-
Lng, at least partially, current and potential future road transport
constraints. Other long term benefits Which are difficult to quantify
are: (i) facilitating tne reorganization and strengthening of road
maintenance institutions, (ii) ensuring long term prioritization and
funding for road maintenance by raising road user charges and by setting
up a Road Fund, and (iii) developing appropriate feeder road standards
and labor intensive construction and maintenance systems more
appropriate to Ghana's conditions, which will reduce the wastefulness in
the present feeder road construction and maintenance. The main



- 27 -
quantifiable benefits consist of savings in vehicle operating costs and
relate to project components totalling 88 percent of project costs.
84.       The project yields very high returns, even on the conservative
assumptions made. The internal economic rates of return (ERR) from the
three main project components are as follows: 73 percent for the
maintenance program for trunk roads (61 percent of total project costs);
26 percent for the rehabilitation of Accra-Kumasi road sections (19
percent of total project costs); 75 percent for bridge rehabilitation (8
of project costs). These three components, totalling 88 percent of
project costs, have a combined ERR of 59 percent. Sensitivity tests
show that this would become 31 percent if benefits decrease by 25
percent together with a cost increase of 25 percent. The total project
including all costs would yield a rate of return of 53 percent even if
benefits relating to only 88 percent of the project are considered.
85.       The ongoing Third Highway Project (86 percent disbursed) has
produced tow physical progress in the maintenance program due to the
adverse factors listed in paras 26, 27 and 42. The proposed project has
been designed with reasonable safeguards against these pitfalls. Some
of the special features of the proposed project which will reduce
project risks are: (a) special incentives for GRA's workforce including
food aid; (b) provision for financing of all foreign components; (c)
special financial measures such as setting up a Road Fund and revolving
funds, and foreign financing of local costs, which will improve avail-
ability of local funds for the project; (d) greater reliance on private
contractors, MMU's, single-man contractors and contracts with road user
companies for doing periodic and routine maintenance; (e) quicker and
more automatic adjustment of contractor rates and more institutional
support to contractors through BEC; (f) provision of expatriate line
management staff for the GHA workshops as a continuation of the practice
recently introduced by GHA under the ongoing Third Highway Project; and
(g) the setting up of the PMU with expatriate assistance to help
coordinate and supervise project implementation, jointly with a new
Monitoring and Coordinating Department to be established in the MRH.
These safeguards would minimize project risks to acceptable levels.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUThORITY
86.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Government
of Ghana and IDA and the draft Project Agreements between IDA and the
Ghana Highway Authority and between IDA and the Bank for Housing and
Construction, as well as the Recommendation of the Committee Drovided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 28 -
87.       In addition to the features of the Development Credit Agree-
ment and Project Agreements referred to in the text and listed in
Section III of Annex III, special conditions of Credit effectiveness
would be (a) establishment of a fuel tax and a separate Road Fund (para.
52) and (b) employment of consultants for PHU (para. 66).
88.       1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
89.       I recommend that the Executive Directors of the Association
approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
May 14, 1985



- 29 -
TABLE  3A                                        PAEl I
ANA                   - SeCIL INDICATORS DTA SER?
GAUMA                               EUlUECEourS (NIOHWD AVERAoSU) ti
NMST                  CNMOS  RIlY STIIATE) A
17 auy         wLO IIIC  AFRICA       MIDDLEt Ils
igGaLb-    WaLb- 9iiESUDATb-         SOUTH OF RAVA0 A    AFRICA S. OP SAMA
As       D {musaa  q. m)
TOTAL                              238.5    238.5       236.5
AGICULTURAL                         62.3     61.        62.2
GM    CaPiTa (Ct)                     170.0    230.0       360.0            249.1                   1112.9
rM  COuOMME        TM CAPXTA
0cxztLOm     or OIL EQuIVALENT)     72.0    IaO.O       161.0             62.8                    529.0
rosMAnou AM  m7A STA?ISTICU
POPULATION.I -TEARS (THOUSANDS)   6804.0   8614.0    12169.0
URIS POPUATION (E OF 0TAL)          23.3     29.1        37.3             19.2                     29.7
POrIlATXON PRlJECTIONS
POPULATON IN  EA  2000 (HILL)                          24.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                           63.5
POPULATWION 1nzrtk                                      2.0
POPUILATON DENSITY
PEIR SQ. Il.                      28.5      36.1       69.6              32.5                    55.H
ER SQ. It. AGRI. LAND            109.3    140.2       190.2            119.2                    111.5
POPULATION AGE STRCTRlE (t)
o-L4 'MS                         44.5      45.3       47.0              45.6                    45.4
15-b4 YRS                         52.9     51.6        50.8             51.5                     51.7
65 AND ABOVE                       2.6      2.7         2.7              2.9                      2.9
POPULATION CROanH RATE (2)
TOTAL                              6.4      2.4         2.               2.8                      2.3
URBAN                              9.2      4.6         5.0              6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TOUS)         50.2     50.2        49.3             48.6                     47.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TWOUS)        20.3     16.8        13.0             17.7                     15.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4      3.4         3.3              3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANKING
ACCEPTORS. ANNAL (TUOUS)            ..      8.3        33.5 lc
USERS (2 OF HARRIED WIEN)           ..       ..        10.0 7.
rMOo  An  ITXiO
INS OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       93.0    l10.0        72.0             85.8                     91.6
PE CAPITA SUFPLT OF
CALOUES (I OF MEQUIRSIENTS)       92.0     97.0        88.0             86.4                     98.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0     51.0        44.0             49.9                     56.7
OF  IJCK ANIMAIL AND PULSE      13.0      17.0       15.0 /c           18.3                    17.0
CIILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE         27.0     21.0        15.0             23.8                     18.7
LIFE EHPECT. AT  ERTE (TEAS)        44.8     49.9        54.8             4S.4                     51.7
INFANT DOUT. RATE (PER THOUS)      13Z.0    107.0       86.0             lL7.5                    102.7
ACCESS TO SAME WAXE (PDO)
TOTAL                               -       35.0       35.0 1/          21.8                     35.6
URBAN                               ..     86.0        86.0 7-r         61.5                     54.1
RURAL                               --      14.0       14.o 7            14.2                    27.:
ACCEES TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..      55.0       56.0 /e          32.0
URBN                                       92.0        95.0 7           69.2
RURAL                               ..     40.0        40.0 o           24.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         21600.0  12910.0 /b  7630.0 /d        27477.8                  11948.3
POP. PE:: NURSING PERSON          5430.0 /f 1070.0 7;   780.0 77        3396.2                   2248.9
POF. PER IHOSPITAL SED
TOTAL                           1290.0    760.0       660.0 /g         109.0                    986.9
URAN                             300.0 /f 770.0       830.0 7?         395.2                    368.7
RURAL                          47590.0 7F 890.0       730.0 7;         3094.0                  4012.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED            .                    .
AVERSCE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..       .7
m          ~..                      ..          .                 ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIROGI
TOS L                               ..        ..
UBAN                                ..       ..
RURAL                               ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. CZ OF WELLINGS)
Ima                                 ..        .....
URAN
RURAL                               ..        ..



- 30 -
T AI3 LEZ 3A                                      PACE 2
GHANA                 - SOCIAL INDICATOS DATA UNSET
OIWIA                               RUauac CROmU  (cSIGznTn AVEES) p
DoST                   (HOST RCENT tSNA)
196O&b-    u        iaa   RIcVW     LW INCOME AFRICA        MIDLE   ON
uZrInIATk         SOtUm or SAHNA      AFtICA S. OF SAta
ADJUSTED ENROLLENT RATIOS
PRMURY:  TOTAL                     38.0     64.0        69.0 Id           6.2                      91.0
MALE                    52.0      73.0       n1.o0             71.a8                     90.5
FIALE                   25.0      34.0       60.0               57.6                     73.6
SECONDART: TOTAL                    5.0     14.0        35.0  t           13.1                     17.4
MALE                     9.0      21.0        £4.0 7            17.6                     23.7
PSIAgL                   3.0       5.0       27.0 l              8.3                     14.6
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)          12.6     23.3         3.5 l             7.2                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHR IRATEO
PRIMARY                            31.0     30.0        27.0 A            46.1                     38.6
SECONDARY                          16.0 /1  17.0        19.0 7j           25.9                     24.3
AWLS LITERACY RATE (1)               27.0     30.2          ..              44.3                     35.6
PASSENCR CARS/TOUSAND POP             3.0      4.6         6.8 Ic            3.8                     20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP         42.7     81.6       162.6              41.9                    100.5
TV RECEIVERS/TNOUSAND PDP             0.1 /k   1.9         5.0               2.0                     18.S
NEWSPAPER (DAILT GENRL
INTERESr) CIRCUSATION
PER THWUSAND POPULAT1ON            30.0     35.1        30.5               5.4                     17.2
CINEA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       1.6      2.2         0.4               1.4                      0.3
LROt
TOUL LABOR FORCE (THOlS)           2919.0   3421.0      4530.0
FALE (PERCENT)                     42.6     42.1        41.1              36.5                     33.8
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)              64.0     58.0        53.0              77.4                     57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.0     17.0        20.0               9.8                     17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              42.9      39.7       37.2              41.0                     36.3
MALE                               50.0     46.6        44.0              52.1                     47.6
FEMALE                             36.0     33.0        30.5              30.2                     25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.1      1.2         1.3               1.2                      1.4
7ICOt DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOIE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5Z OF HOUSSNOLOS             ..
HICHEST 202 OF HOUSBeOLDS            ..
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHO!DS             ..
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTT INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..       ..       307.0 /           168.3                    52S.3
RURAL                                ..       ''       150.0              90.8                    249.0
ESTDIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LLVtl. (Un ra Catiia)
URBAN                                ..       ..       156.0 Js          107.7                    471.4
RURAL                                ..       ..       130.0              65.0                    186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BEL  ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                                ..        ..         ..              34.7
RURAL                                ..        ..         ..              65.4
NOT AVAIUI.LE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each i.di-ator are population-weighted arit_etic meas. Coverage of countries song the
indiceator depends on avaitabilicy of data and i not aniforom
/b   Unles othervise noted. -Data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 nd 1961; -Data for t970- between 1969 and
1971 and data for 'lcst Recent Eetimaae' between 1980 ad  1982.
/c  1977; /d 1979; /e 1975; /f 1962; / 1978;  lb Regitered0 not all practieing in the country  /i Public
education only; 2   Age 6 and ovez; h% 1964.
JUl13, 1984



3313511459  55--.   5554                                      5
*   3^   t   t   __   4   >   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 33s. -35 ~ .. 1
"u _ '_F -._.;; _) .ffiff sIde
,. -        1     _  .-                              AC _. :1
-e- add -l  wg        ov 3l3-5  .35935  -wievd - 3
53ile A151       a 5351315*        -     -   --      -33  35 J.543   9
_~~~~~~.Pe  .id, ._9"    .r                          ef _t_aw_v
,, 3_3  _5 *-     *13_1 P3 d5              3_       'p    33 J.
a. -3 egg 5W  3351 p.  1                     -  -  I5  _ *35     3_t,
_5 ,_?  _5 3       - g5X3  335.5  -_w 3333  333333   _5_5
-dveA *5  '     W53 o.ee5 -3535313  .535  13 P355534  4- (3333  s13
w_ dee                                                                              Pe                      rasead  Bt _a  e W- Ada i- P.  rt_ et
35.3 33                                                                    55*53353335455,-33    3   3 3-.- - ll ps3d3553.
--o,                                                                              "Id. 35_,   5   55  3 I  3. -   55  3*w
~~53333  a., s. 55  ~~   - (555   ,'  "s      d     Ad3)33   53
** - (3433) -T3 _ 55 L*3 I         U *5*35.v s W     5-3               t               -T _ 3.3P3                                                         33-
5531 .35            5.3 i3t   -P   *4 3 - 5 ae  -1- %W               W."P 3 * --u -                      t              :       *1 *T      3
53d15   d l         . _     -       5vo-, -1  *             3  n_9                *             -.       -J              -  5 .3   -33113.          s _ n   
_3943 - (33 -   535 5333 5553 533533 j344~S   35             3.3   _             3 Pe         4 3-_             (          --3  5  _ 4   3   rW - (P 3  -J
P5a.            .--S5 -  PAN
ade 33 *    41555d 551-  3313         33   3333 .3debo  AI3133                            s  5  05   3-miUP r.   531553355-    51
I- 14                         *             _ - _ , 3                    *-31 -51t *0     *_ _£3.  _0-,593 3539  53  pg." 39- 
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,_ -P                                       -           ">__a de]-  a.  n AR  r--   _ _ -   -a *a-a -t-  *   eixIdv    -n
MO        F A                      -10        _                                                  weer- *b|bs1-_ _ a
-<1  3131P          3313        _~4  .3333                        *333  54"   *        _   . -3W                   __...455  3143.......55.....555...........3333 ....'.........5 
55 *_3353_ *353335 35          3333355433 *433b* 335559553l5~                                    "'_" 55 _3333dT4 1-3-3  _    w--p e al UN 94   A. ' *odd
~~~~~~~~~~~~~p  I,_,,_a   ,0 or._ _w_ AM 've  eleae I t P dil go S.  _-.ddedil
-  a-t *t-e  -  * t-*1. q   - - - -   sssX                         -eeld &      "See"- td        semstm -I9              od    -   v, &
a._  dor'                                                   u...W 1                               _ q_3 g_ P_ *.            13 p_      a      3 p. 
53 3.3355 53 333455 55_.ss..4    ...s.s4 *a*.   :_; _-. *s..5                     _        5  3 5 _  *-3 - P53153333 -55  ped '_"       A. 433   3.-sp 3   P. ° a.
Pe S.a* p_n Skdpd    3w-     - -Im                                     z-a 0-} q_--Z_-                                      .X _ee  We AR rea     o d-  _*q-  -
I 3   43 55   - 33133   3~533  533 3-'1    "l n            a *335 43   Me  p- 'Pe -e .3.4.  a. 63    -.S3-5  5
v   P-. -1. "   Ped "es-redid epA. d-gdoe           dfi111*1:.1        5                _35 _              _         .3 _    u)  1,-u _  stn  3_ed.  .5m3 _-* P   _
_ 1                      _    "Pese   -._1 P_e dod%A  la   to_  _-  "_   gede  %iflo-Pied  _Pdei odweaw *-lif-de eppgde  
MI-Z--3~ a~*  - t of*_  -  - {lel_s ad,a J-                                                                                                      dh As-
55  .              *(34  55         3  3134                                       *s5i      3.  -        .         .i        .u ,-_ 3515  55 _s_
--   4   ;- 33.55351 31.3.3 l-I35    35.3   *333  55 93... 55  usIh3 *S59                    33.Z:335  3s3            333                -- 33353    M316 P-   3,
365             I---,_31   3   .      -J -- _;-  *1*351 a.    34                      -. 3333_                                             -_ -_-
'-S~~~~~~ 1-  0-  r_a ie   , -. ,.,,.,r
_"I                  deds .|-1._q     a   .-ft 11. A.         w                                                                                      J>
f 33.5  53               -P--5 %     *1333 v 33553 "'          515353                       3533.333.  -            -J4333   59 3.343    1.53. Ia. 63eda 333554-
p- °t 53-     1 - 5-d _55P    3   5331 - O3-34   *-33 35                   -       *         4_0                              - Z                   W      pqv
33.9 359  55         (59155 *-3(&           = --33  353   335   535 543  1A-155.3    3d
_                  _93435335535  3335531353  593333 35 333*5 1-31  ._3331553441  3.3.3 5553    .333333  _5 33 3 -w uM  3 (5_3 5-55        5*5
*435 .554.3 3*353 53 3593.3.5154 -  1343k 53333 .i-._ _s-I~7           '                        A *35    __- _ - _- 334 -5 Ad  -)              s -
_o _                            W       -                                                                Id|-2_aqlB- De                                  JS-_al-   - __
.. ;r |_ _"| 33P ZUlU _5 51133  5593 551-5*                                                                                               3_5_3- US_ 335
3.31        = F4333  555 -3 33.-5q A .. 55d s, a. 33.
_3153.33 *a_    53a      5555 3    134 e     - 3.433Slee-3   55  3d1    3.53 55  .1335, 1355.3 _1                                     Ali333   _43.3e 3 3334-
°-5 -1                              5 o_  55 -         3      5355.h Al PM"    5333 -     ided  3 *
3-5    di   3-  AL A. -_ 455t _--                  3                                 _ nf  33    *          3        5               - t55 33-5P 3    1 
di-Vided5AL3555)I-   3.333 3.ess-p d 3 3  -1 l._,  . T                        5-11                             3333 oo   °r  5333 -   I 3      4
55.3.33 333  - .   3pg) __ 3) *} 4ed -                                                                 1 514   o3             1-' 
d    -F-   _1 _                                    -3 _-M.-a -   *. _I                             .-   -diql   edl-Wv I    - _lmr   -J  Me .l
_15    ' d- v3 33333-.3              _          ele333' g3  _   M                        -- le                             31-w  .   1 _5  045* d     33313535
533553353 435 313333- U  - 3353 53535    1.335   U_| .5334.P.13 53  . 5  5.............. 35_3 433  33   55_3*_33333
331- 53.33 3            A.35  - .    w5 _ .33d T_   - -eI *a 3553359.                             id * __5 _.-  1-t  5o   *
"3J 435         - 313 5  43 .46  I1TV - T3335335517P3 3333433  I1353   33                                           5-*35                             n3          3
p- -diddeft  --M-  se"d33    433333                                       5333333  5933.435k1 3             --P53  -b P-  gist long4  3313313d3d
55 33    dole           -(333w                3       3)43353                                   J. eff533 -4 d 55.333  V533  55  ..33  333 p--33  =    I.4
S~~~~~~                                                          ~~~t P- t   ---  Po* - _a1~ _ *IX
p- pede  eal=  Mmom            r--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31p 335 US *333333
-PNaa_ -   _n    >l _d1F-  P 4 -" !  W      z       |       n .1=                                                                            ."- zaw_     ll   __  1g_ I *
-       Pn- II  ~    1-~3-                              55335.134  3                   551 33433531345.43) 5i3   33 _   _- 5W-4,        43353433 1-.
5   3  3333) 3315 3353 - 1                  3 -    _13 55                                                        'P 33 55  *3 33353--          1. -   _33
"    350 3doe  3333.43                      3535355333  553333535  5  3333 em-3.55Mir                   353 5*
*3_3533 51        53-da -,"    -3 5   .5.553 -  3                             _                                    d1i _ 3  _3 5  _- -  W       -l    3433
~~~~~~~~~~~~-w-,Lt                                                              eve_  "l   pl~  _de F s___l                                  ^ t a-.3  s1 _
M                                            .et J. Al- r3MI *43-3 A513-j _                                                       3       3543 *3  33
-_e 3        4     5333.53            J" 31  355   43 . P- *3353
3*3  .....                                                                           di343   3    33ed3  3  943.- 34433  3.433  353  55*133 45Al 5.0J  334l1.%3 .5.4.  3353ft 353  M.5 53343
435  53534333 59333,_, ,_3.5_.1. ... -I.-                                                        _ _3 3*5 de  4   4   ..,3 *- %. _,,_   v-
-Pd    j_                 je 8_ -t ) -wdX e_. od                                                               .11d  'Ided               pdmsaodd *." _ *e =*
_4553  33333  op_.r_ - 5331  3333  33355  -X_ *133553553                                    433533.  3333453  5351343335  555(35  33  _59__3155 r
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e                                        _             ADli ewedo agjad    r  -641 ol    p   .  s"1=
_535134 3533  3 -  3-33335333553.335 333333333 3553 353.53-3                       333555 -63333-                                                       '-_3 ed 3 3 5    533jl 355. 55
_33335 55,_ '135,- '-7= 53333   ,"55r~5355j5~J~55                                       *33333433 33533,,4-         t '-35  53 A 31-  MI -         --
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~1e 1||1_ _ide" *_   *-|-||   -o -_ evreddw od                                                                   . 0_
wr-                                  Old'3-0 -JI-IPdd s-edo'gr-                           Mlx 4.     .  P- A 1_--      .1.41-   M  d    .4 m g e m -l
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*3     3333435  3-  |{_4 _s 43133  55 I3335    _9  _3
__ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 51                               -m  3333  53_  5533  3  -- -*3133 -8   4w w1° 4433- 3135 |z -53  33355
els~~~~~~~~" Aeol_                      Id l_| W     0}-_X                sst   -1_W_Ih|_                                            aba   o
-in P.M-$ em ade d-    A-           epi    v                     P.                                           X.P.31-5    4 5  3    11.-  5 3315435 33 35
_ ~ ~ ~~433343 o_             5s  ,..3*   333  55I  331 *3333-* 53        --             33' 3  3353353 3*   3  3334 *33355. - . *-° 3---     58431  *        '
333551 35-333           33133 a. 3334~~~3 - 3333  453353  3   33514  334E433
_ el_vel P s w -evie dws _ w-k rgv   w a"emseZ
*-r   _ _   - A% goell dep-Asw  . A_ _..P  _lloA   3"o,>      V.-                          p looie  1- -nd           I    "  I                    d
p-~~~~ ~ ~ ~                                              I£1-    -"I- "11Iid  d"-e"e  d~d.de
.53-3Pe                 3 1--  .-g35   d 433 55313  .1 .35 - 555353v -                                           .$--1-.    0                       o
I"sd-%3355133333344   15    4                                                                          333  35   5003'5. 3535
-3I3335544   43553"')33.45    33  3333 l*553O&MG 55                                           3,55945313333P- 33I3
533355        33.3 55  Wese3 *5531 33 s3-3 5333                533'he,     -Po 
-d P    pft                       . 59                                                                                               " feei"I
p-  glodd %I    -1   W'~II       1  -- -   Plldod -  I-  l-de dit.    -tL-..-   e elsle  dd     dvie",  tw            -.
-1oded    55    - .513  3353 -W8   51q9-e.e    -W                    .    aR       n - a   feedd.ee,..-                                   v
333553Sq354 33334a do  disl43           Sas           d                       1  red &.I4~  Im 55o.33333355l33P 53 3313   13 l'3-3333 ft  EO43 ame  3.LS55g33gd 13335
55 3533543333333 3*333333  313333-35r4 13454   55e 54%dedlpdo eidavP3                                                           j do3te 3l5de
333313 *535331  533335334      evr   L  .    -A5533355   3 1513434 55 35333 vd  V sipd   ooood          e 13 43                         33335do"dP   -I-4 P533  33453  5
5353335       as 4  ed-   " *53333.3  53333333  1313343   e35335 fld.13333)-ties4p        5335  13 p.153  3533.ed 33359-F5- 33         333313355 Rodwv  --3



- 32 -
ARM I
Pa8e         5
GRANA,
EOM= INDICA!MS
GNP PEP cAP& N 1983: lS$320 1/
GBS NAT.L PMUCr IN 1983 1/                                                 A1M    RATE w QRW1
Cedis 1il.            z                   1978-3
GCP at MAdret Prices                     191,934            100.0                  -2.78
Gmoss Duestic Iuvest                      12,476              6.5                  -5.89
Grms Natial Saving                        5,356               2.8                 -19.72
CQrret A accnt gal                        7,120               3.7                    _
E1port of Gods, NEFS                      9,542               5.0                  -7.12
I1,ort of Goods, EFS                      15,788             8.2                  -11.63
OUIPUTf AM IABM KMCE
Q=pLUt in 1983                       labor Force, 1983
Cedis MI.                             H UI.       Z
Agriclrtre                                101,886              53.1           2.584       57.2
inutstry                                   13,372              7.0            0.691       15.3
Services                                  76,671              39.9            1.242       27.5
Total                                     191,934             100.0           4.517      100.0
GOVRRM FIAM
___ C~~~~~~t        talL Glov     enuat__
Cedis MUl.    Z of GIP in 1982 2/ Ceds Mi. Z of GP in l93 2/
Total Revenie and Grants          5,253.2            5.8          10,241.0           4.8
Total Expenditure and Net leading    9,220.1        10.2          15,177.5           7.0
Overall Deficit (-)              -3,966.9          -4.4           -4,936.5         -2.2
MfEf, CREMT AM PRICES
1977     1978     1979     1980     1981     1982     1983
Imey and Qiasi-money              3,044    5,131    5,942    7,949   12,029   14,837   20,803
Bank Credit to Public Sector      3,203    5,636    6,537    8,480   14,043   17,140   29,392
Bank Credit to Private Sector       560      739      796      940    1,342    1,558    2,838
PerceFtages Of idex     s)
Maney and Quasi-money as % of GDP  27.3     24.4      21.1     19.4     15.7     16.7      9.8
General Ptice Index (1977=100)    100.0    173.1    267.3    401.2    868.6   1062.4   2367.4
I/ Staff Fatiutes.
2 Patios are calcmlated C a recently revised GOP series.



- 33 -
AEN=  I
Page 5 of 5
GAM
BRANCE OF PAYIBU                                         lHMQWI)ISE EMpIms (AVERMGE 1979-1983)
1982      1983 I/
(US$ MUU03-                                      US$ mflim    _
Trade Balance                    -24      -137           Cocoa Beans & Products       528.6       69.5
Exports f.o.b.                 607       440           Gbld                         135.3       17.8
I}morts c.i.f.                 631       577          RPsidual Oil                   31.5        4.1
Thzixer                       28.7        3.8
Ivisibles ONet)                 -168      -219           Eetredcity                     9.9        1.3
Services                     -167       -233          Manganese                       8.1        1.1
Transfers                       -1        14           Diammd                         7.3        1.0
All Other Gbods               10.7        1.4
Cirreot Balance                 -192      -356
Capital AccmXmts                                         Total                        760.1      100.0
Grants                          84        35
Official Capital (Net)         113        51           ER103L ID3, EBRM   1983
Private Capital QMet)           -5        12
ArrS Payets                     35       -34                                                 US$ MEL
Overall Balance 21                27      -243           Tbtal COutstaardg and
Disbursed MiST                      1,095.1
Gross Tiwrational                                        Total ;Cktsztding and
Reserves CEod of Perird)       223       128             Disbarsed imc. sb r-tezm            1,370.9
TI;3  SECE RAfOD FOR  1984 3/             %
February 1973 - June 18, 1978                            Total OutstandIng and
US$1 = 01.15                                      Disbursd  g                            34.2
ToMal Czsmtm1xlig and
Since AUg. 26, 1978,  US$1  = 0 2.75                       Disbursed inc. payment arrearS         45.8
SInce April 21, 1983, US$1  = 024.692
Simne Ort. 10, 1983,  US$1  = 030.00                     TRR/MDA LENDE  (Decaher 31. 1984)
Since Mard  25, 1984, US$1  = 035.00
SInme AWist 25, 1984, US$1  = 038.50                                                   IERD       IDA
SInce Deceber 3, 1984,US$1  = 050.00
Outstanading & DIunr-sed     125.40    187.70
Ukdisbursed                    8.39    194.37
CAst=andIng, incLr
Udtisbursed                133.79    382.07
1/ Provisia   estes sibject to  hange.
Imbxbxes errors and anssim is.
_   As Z of exports of gPods and IX-faCotr services.
December 1984



* 34 -
MME STATUS OF BANK GROP OPERAIONS IN GUU I
STAT^T OF BA1C LOAMS MID nh  CREDITS (As of March 31. 1985)
Loan or                                                         ---Amt (US$Million)--
Credit   Fiscal                                                 --Leos Cancellation--  /
Number   Year      Borrer                   Purpose,            Bank  IDA  Undisbursed
Eight loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                146.5 107.4
1122-CR   1975     Post & TelecAm-
immications       Telecommunications        23.0            5.8
1291-C  3/1976     Republic of Ghana  Upper Region Ag.Dev.       21.0            0.8
901-GR   1979     Republic of Gbana  Second NIB                       19.0      3.7
1009-GE   1980     Republic of Ghana  Volta Region Ag.Dev.             29.5    23.8
1029-CR   1980     Republic of Ghana  Third Highway                    25.0    14.4
1170-GH   1981     Republic of Ghana  Railway                          29.0    14.4 4/
1342-GR   1983     Republic of Ghana  Water Supply                     13.0      7.7 4/
1327-G    1983     Republic of Gbana  Reconstrction CIK&                9.3      8.4 4f
1373-C    1983     Republic of Ghana  Energy Project                   11.0      8.7 4-
1393-GCR   1983    Republic of Ghana  Reconstruction Import Cr.        40.0      9.2 4/
1435-GH  1984      Republic of Ghana  Export Rehabilitation           40.1    32.2 4/
P009-CR   1984     Republic of Ghana  Export Rehabilitation            35.9    31.6 4f
1436-CR   1984     Republic of Ghana  Export Rehabilitation
Technical Assistance         17.1    13.0 4/
1446-GE   1984     Republic of GhAnA  Petroleum Refinery Rehab.
and Technical Assistance       6.9      5.5 4/
1498-C    1984     Republic of Gan   Second Oil Palm                   25.0    21.3 4/
1564-GE   1985     Republic cf ohana  Accra District Rehab. 5/         22.0    22.0
1573-C   1985      Republic of Ghana  Second Reconstruction
Import Credit S/             60.0    60.0
Total                                       190.5  490.2  271.6
of which has been paid                       59.8   4.0
Total now outstanding                       130.7  486.2
Ahont sold                   0.4
of which has been repaid    0.4              0.0   0.0
Total now held by Bank & IDA                130.7  486.2
Total undisbursed                             6.6  265.0  271.6
I/  The status of the project listed in this part is described in a separate report on all
Bank/ IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2|  Prior to exchange adjustments.
31 Interest subsidy fund (Third Window).
4/  Calculated at the exchange rate applicable on March 31, 1985.
5/ Not yet effective as at March 31, 1985.



- 35 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
ROAD RERABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I      Timetable of Key Events
(a)       Time taken to prepare the project  : 9 months
(b)       Project prepared by                 : Govermpwent and IDA
(c)       Date of first IDA mission to
consider the project               : March 1981
(d)       Date of appraisal mission           : September 1984
(e)       Date of completion of negotiations : April 1985
(f)       Planned date of effectiveness       : September 1985
Section II     Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III    Special Conditions
(a)       Contractors' unit rates to be adjusted by December 31, 1985
and automatic future adjustments to be made reflecting
changes in exchange rates or prices (par-. 45);
(b)       Government and IDA jointly to review anni..ly during 1985-90
the Government's annual investment program for the transport
sector and monitor its implementation at 6-month intervals.
(para. 50);
(c)       Government to establish a fuel tax of ¢5 per gallon and a
separate road fund (condition of effectiveness), and carry
out a study on the road user charge system by December 31,
1985 (para. 52);
(d)       GHA to (i) initiate action programs for equipment management
and personnel management by July 1, 1986 and (ii) gradually
transfer road maintenance works to contractors (para. 58);



- 36 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(e)      All new contracts to be awarded after January 1, 1988 to be
awarded through local competitive bidding (para. 60);
g                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
(f)      Consultants for PMU to be employed (condition of
effectiveness) (para. 66); and
(g)      Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government
and BHC (condition of disbursement for BHC subloaDs) (para.
72).



IBRD 18727
r 7 gURKINAA
(5s  W, E FT    .. -~ru -P                             m  z=P
_Im. & 7W- - AWdN , ---'' T
>  8   R T H E fN4E              B~~~~R E GG IN 0N
P    E                                             MAIN -   T  Ai  . - 9W
G-I'5 -TA O- AD            U 
MAC 1.W bJ9859
.  .   no
0  R  T  H  E R ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~R C
E )G~~~             &m
.9    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   -.   RED' ~         ~ ~ ~ OG
0                    LU/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oLM
-IN~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ADMITNAC  RJC
0%                      E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRH18



