OFFICIALTREDIT NUMBER 1601 GH
iDOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF? GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1601 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              )A.-           , 1985, between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (th&orrower      and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Ghana
Highway Authority with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Ghana
Highway Authority part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided
in this Agreement;
(C) Part C of the Project will be carried out by the Bank
for Housing and Construction with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
the Bank for Housing and Construction part of the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Association
and, respectively, the Ghana Highway Authority and the Bank for
Housing and Construction;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement
(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "GHA Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Ghana Highway Authority of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
GHA Project Agreement;
(b) "BHC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Bank for Housing and Construction of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to
the BHC Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into. between the Borrower and BHC pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) "GRA" means Ghana Highway Authority, a body corporate
with perpetual succession and common seal, established and opera-
ting under Ghana Highway Authority Decree, 1974 (N.R.C.D. 298) of
the Borrower, as  amended to the date of this Agreement;
(e)  "BHC" means Bank for Housing and Construction, estab-
lished pursuant to the Bank for Housing and Construction Decree,
1972 (N.R.C.D. 135) of the Borrower, as amended to the date of
this Agreement;
(f) "Investment Project" means: (i) road rehabilitation and
maintenance works to be carried out by contractors under Parts
A.2 and B.2 of the Project; (ii) aggregates to be produced by
quarry operators for said road rehabilitation and maintenance
works; or (iii) the acquisition by Plant Pool of equipment and
materials to be made available to contractors and quarry opera-
tors through sale or hire, all, except as the Association may
otherwise agree, for the purposes of carrying out Parts A.2 and
B.2 of the Project; and "free-limit Investment Project" means an
Investment Project   requiring procurement of    equipment, spare
parts, supplies and consumables under Category 3 (a) of the table
in paragraph 1 6f Schedule 1 in an amount less than $50,000
equivalent which, together with amounts previously financed for
the same Investment Project and not repaid, shall not exceed in
the aggregate the equivalent of $100,000 and which, when added to
all other free-limit Investment Projects to be financed out of


﻿the proceeds of the Credit, shall not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of $1,500,000;
(g)  "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
BHC proposes to make or has made a loan for an Investment
Project;
(h) "Cedis" means the currency of the Borrower;
(i)  "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower;
(j) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by BHC or by any one or more of
its subsidiaries;
(k)  "Plant Pool" means Plant Pool, Ltd., a Subsidiary of
BHC;
(1)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(m)  "Project   Preparation  Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated July 31, 1981 and
August 17, 1981 between the Borrower and the Association;
(n)  "Decree" means the Bank for Housing and Construction
Decree, 1972 (N.R.C.D. 135) of the Borrower, as amended to the
date of this Agreement;
(o)  "By-laws" means the by-laws of BHC, approved by its
Board of Directors on November 29, 1973, as amended to the date
of this Agreement;
(p)  "PMU"  means   the   project  management  unit   to  be
established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement;
(q) "MRH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Roads and
Highways; and
(r) "DFR" means the Department of Feeder Roads of MRH.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 40,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to-time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods,
works and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in U.S. dollars a special account in a coimner-
cial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c) Promptly   after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one.per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿-5-
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;   (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing November 1, 1995, and ending May 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 1, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project
through MRH and DFR, and shall coordinate all Parts of the
Project through PMU, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity   with  appropriate   administrative,  financial,   and
engineering practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b) Without any limitation upon any of its other obliga-
tions under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause GRA and BHC


﻿to perform in accordance with the provisions of, respectively,
the GHA Project Agreement and the BHC Project Agreement, all the
obligations of GHA and BHC therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appro-
priate to enable GHA and BHC to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn under Sub-category 3 (a) of the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement to BHC under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BHC, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Asso-
ciation and which shall include, inter alia, (i) interest at 12%
p.a. or such other rate as may be agreed upon between the
Borrower, BHC and the Association, (ii) repayment over 12 years,
including 3 years of grace, (iii) on-lending by BHC at 20% p.a.
with repayment over maximum 12 years, or on such other terms as
may be agreed upon between the Borrower, BHC and the Association,
and (iv) the Investment Enterprises to assume the foreign ex-
change risk until repayment to BHC and the Borrower to assume the
foreign exchange risk thereafter.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn under Category (1) and Sub-categories 3 (b), (c) and
(d) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
available to GHA and BHC, respectively, on a grant basis.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this AgtNeement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to


﻿-7-
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records   and   reports,   maintenance   and   land   acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project shall be
carried out by GHA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the GHA Project
Agreement and in respect of Part C of the Project by BHC pursuant
to Section 2.05 of the BHC Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of ensuring overall coordina-
tion and administration of the Project, including coordination
and facilitation of all procurement under the Project, provision
of technical assistance to MRH, GRA, DFR, road contractors and
quarry operators, operation of the Special Account, and prepara-
tion of quarterly consolidated progress reports, the Borrower
shall establi3h an autonomous project management unit, adminis-
tered by MRH, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to
the Association.
Section 3.05. As from January 1, 1988, the Borrower, through
MRH or any agencies under MRH's overall supervision, shall, other
than for force account operations, contract for all new road
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works on the basis of
local   competitive   bidding   procedures   acceptable   to   the
Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause PMU, not later
than one month before the start of each calendar quarter, to
prepare and submit to the Association for its approval in respect
of that quarter a work program for GHA and DFR, together with an
estimate of expenditures.
(b) Without    limitation   upon  the   generality   of   the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall,
not later than one month before the start of each calendar
quarter, furnish to GHA and DFR an amount in Cedis which,
together with the Cedi resources then available to each of these
agencies, will enable it to meet its estimated expenditures on
its Part of the Project during such quarter.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause MRH and DFR to carry
out Part B.2 of the Project in accordance with the Borrower's
Report entitled "Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Programme:
Pilot Feeder Roads Project" dated March 1985, as such Report may
be amended in agreement with the Association.


﻿-8-
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers insurance on DFR's warehoused spare parts
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice, including reinsurance abroad so as to
ensure that any indemnity shall be payable in a freely usable
currency.
Section 3.09. Without limitation upon the generality of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that
fuel financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be avail-
able in sufficient quantities to carry out the works required
under the Project and the Borrower shall, to this end, make such
special purchase and distribution arrangements as may be neces-
sary during times of general fuel shortage.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures of PMU in respect of the Project and of MRH and DFR
in respect of Part B of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause to be provided to PMU summary
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of GHA, BHC and of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the
Project.
(c) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account, for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles    consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by the said auditors, of such


﻿9-
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(d) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's    representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (c) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such e,tpenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
Section 4.02.   The Borrower shall reorganize MRH and its
agencies in accordance with a plan of action acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary
measures: (i) to adjust unit rates under existing road mainte-
nance or rehabilitation contracts by December 31, 1985 to reflect
devaluations and price increases since January 1, 1983; and (ii)
to provide, as from January 1, 1986, for automatic adjustment of
contractors' unit rates for road works reflecting changes in
exchange rates or prices in accordance with a formula acceptable
to the Association.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cooperate with BHC to
ensure that BHC: (i) will adopt an action program acceptable to
the Association by September 30, 1985 for strengthening its
financial condition and operational and financial management
capabilities, and (ii) will be able to carry out such action
program with due diligence and efficiency.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall: (i) review annually with
the Association during the 1985-1990 period the Borrower's annual
investment program for the transport sector for the three years
subsequent to the year of the review, beginning with the 1986-88
period, including detailed physical work programs and projects in
all  transport   modes;  and   (ii)  monitor   jointly  with   the
Association -the execution of said investment programs at
six-monthly intervals,
Section 4.06. For the purpose of mobilizing resources for
road maintenance requirements, the Borrower shall: (i) establish
a tax on diesel and gasoline fuel at a level satisfactory to the
Association; (ii) establish on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, a separate fund into which all proceeds of
said tax will be deposited and which will only be drawn down for
the purposes of defraying road maintenance expenses; and (iii)
carry out and complete before December 31, 1985, a study on the
structure and adequacy of road user charges with the objective of
attaining coverage of not less than 50% of the cost of annual
periodic road maintenance requirements as from January 1, 1991.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) GHA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the GRA Project Agreement or BHC shall have failed to per-
form any of its obligations under the BHC Project Agreement or
the Subsidary Loan Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that GHA or
BHC will be able to perform its obligations under, respectively,
the GHA Project Agreement or the BHC Project Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
(c) The Ghana Highway Authority Decree, 1974, as amended,
or the Decree or By-laws of BHC shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or financial condition of GHA or BHC
or the ability of GHA or BHC to perform any of its obligations
under, respectively, the GHA Project Agreement or the BHC Project
Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of GHA, BHC or Plant Pool or for the suspension of the
operations of any one of them.
(e) BHC shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been undertaken whereby any
of the property of BHC shall or may be distributed among its
creditors.
(f) Any part of the principal amount of any loan to BHC
having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accor-
dance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable.
(g) A   Subsidiary  or any   other entity shall have been
created or acquired or taken over by BHC, if such creation,
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
BHC's business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its
management and personnel or the carrying out of Part C of the
Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are speci-
fied:
(a) the events specified in paragraph (a) or (g) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) or (f)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the road user tax and the separate fund referred to in
Section 4.06 of this Agreement have been established in accor-
dance with the provisions of that Section; and
(b) the consultants for PMU referred to in Section II of
Schedule 3 of this Agreement have been employed in accordance
with the provisions of said Section.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished  to  the Association, namely     that  the  GHA  Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by GHA and is
legally binding upon GHA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.03 and 4.05 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs
(d), (e), (f) and (g) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on the date 12 years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Provisional National Defence Council
Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 13 -
For the Borrower:
The Provisional National Defence
Council Secretary
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P. 0. Box M 40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:
ECONOMICOM
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By U
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) For Part A of the
Project (GHA):
(a) Equipment and         6,050,000
materials
(i) directly                          100% of foreign
imported                          expenditures
(ii) locally                           70%
procured
(b) Civil works
(1) by force         2,220,000        16%
account
(ii) by contract
(A) bridge       5,040,000         100% of foreign
rehabi-                       expenditures and
litation                      50% of local ex-
penditures
(B) other        5,040,000         16%
(c) Consultants'          4,840,000         100%
services, train-
ing, and studies


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(d) Reinsurance             100,000         100% of foreign
of warehoused                         expenditures
spare parts
(2) For Part B of the
Project (MRH, DFR):
(a) Equipment and         1,310,000
materials
(i) directly                          100% of foreign
imported                          expenditures
(ii) locally                           70%
procured
(b) Civil works
(i) by force           310,000        60%
account
(ii) by contract      2,020,000        60%
(c) Consultants'          1,920,000         100%
services,
training and
studies
(d) Reinsurance of          100,000        100% of foreign
warehoused                            expenditures
spare parts
(3) For Part C of the
Project (BHC):
(a) Equipment and         5,240,000
materials
(i) directly                          100% of foreign
imported                          expenditures
(ii) locally                           70%
procured


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(b) Office equipment        510,000
and vehicles
(i) directly                          100% of foreign
imported                          expenditures
(ii) locally                           70%
procured
(c) Consultants'            510,000         100%
services and
training
(d) Reinsurance of          100,000         100% of foreign
warehoused                             expenditures
spare parts
(4) Refunding of Pro-          1,020,000         Amount due pur-
ject Preparation                            suant to Section
Advance                                     2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(5) Unallocated                4,070,000
TOTAL          40,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any couiltry other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "equipment" includes vehicles and the term
"materials" includes spare parts, fuel, and other consumable
inputs.


﻿- 17 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 500,000, may be made in
respect of Sub-category 1 (c) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after September 1, 1984;
(b) Category (3) unless:
(i) the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly executed on behalf of the Borrower and BHC;
and
(ii) the   Association   has  received   an  opinion  or
opinions satisfactory to it, stating that the BHC
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment have been duly authorized or ratified by BHC
and, with respect to the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, the Borrower, and are legally binding upon
BHC and, with, respect to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the Borrower, in accordance with their
terms; and
(c) Sub-category 3 (a) unless:
(i) the conditions specified in sub-paragraph (b)
immediately above have been satisfied; and
(ii)  (A) the Investment Project has been approved by
the Association and any expenditures there-
for, if such expenditures have already been
incurred, have been made less than ninety
days prior to the date on which the Associa-
tion shall have received the application and
information required by Section 2.02 (b) of
the BHC Project Agreement, or
(B) the   Investment   Project  is   a  free-limit
Investment Project for which the Association
has authorized withdrawals from the Credit
Account and any expenditures therefor, if
such expenditures have already been incurred,


﻿- 18 -
have been made less than ninety days prior to
the date on which the Association shall have
received the request and information required
by Section 2.02 (c) of the BHC Project
Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to remove key road transport
obstructions to export/import trade and to movement of domestic
farm inputs and outputs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   GHA
1.   Strengthening of GHA and of road contractors and quarry
operators through training, technical assistance, studies
and through an incentive program for GHA employees.
2.   Execution of a three-year tranche of the Borrower's road
rehabilitation and maintenance program.
3.   Rehabilitation or reconstruction of about 15 major bridges
in  critical   disrepair  and   establishment  and  initial
operation of a bridge maintenance unit.
4.   Rehabilitation of about 105 km of the Accra-Kumasi highway.
Part B:   MRH and DFR
1.   Strengthening of MRH and DFR through training and techni--
cal assistance and through an incentive program for MRH and
DFR employees.
2.   Execution of a pilot feeder road program consisting of the
rehabilitation of approximately 240 km of feeder roads in
the  Sefwi-Wiawso   district * and  spot  improvements  and
maintenance in the Western, Ashanti and Brong Ahafo regions.
Part C:   BHC
1.   Financing of the acquisition of equipment, materials and
spare parts by    contractors, quarry operators and Plant
Pool.


﻿- 20 -
2.   Improvement of BHC's organization, operations and financial
management.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1989.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A. International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, works for Part A.3 of
the Project and goods shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1984 (the
Guidelines).
2.   (a) Contracts will    be   grouped  to  the  maximum  extent
practicable to allow bulk procurement.
(b) Goods   shall   be  exempted   from  pre-shipment  price
inspection by a third-party inspection firm.
(c) Bidders for works for Part A.3 of the Project shall be
pre-qualified.
Part B. Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C. Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   As from January 1, 1988, new contracts for works to be
carried out under Parts A.2 and B.2 of the Project shall be
procured on the basis of local competitive biddiLig in accordance


﻿- 22 -
with procedures acceptable to the Association. Prior to that
date, such works may be procured on the basis of direct
contracting.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent may be procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding   in  accordance   with  procedures   acceptable  to   the
Association, provided that the aggregate amount of such contracts
shall not exceed $1,000,000 equivalent.
3.   Equipment and spare parts of a proprietary nature or subject
to standardization may be procured on the basis of price
quotations from at least three suppliers, with at least two of
them located -outside of Ghana.
4.   Works under Part A.2 of the Project that can properly be
carried out by GHA's mobile maintenance units, works for spot
improvements and maintenance under Part B.2 of the Project, and
construction and renovation of buildings may be carried out by
force account.
Part E. Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 (c) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods or works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4


﻿- 23 -
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such cont'act are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4
(the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of thia Agree-
ment.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist GRA to carry out Part A of the Project,
MRH and DFR to carry out Part B of the Project, BHC to carry out
Part C of the Project, and PMU to carry out its obligations under
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement, GHA, BHC and the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-24-
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2) and (3) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
US$2,000,000 which is to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except if the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdra-
wals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 25 -
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective Cate-
gories (1), (2) or (3), and in the respective equivalent amounts,
as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1), (2) and (3), minus
the amount of any outstanding qualified agreement
to reimburse made by the Association and of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
GaeIral Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Cate-
gories (1), (2) and (3) shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.


﻿- 26 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
1 hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of          ,
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


