OFFICIAL CREDIT NUMBER 1601 GR
D0CUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
Dated                            , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1601 GH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              k              , 1985, between
the INTERNATIONAL DEV   PMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION (BHC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Ghana (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million four
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 40,400,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agree-
ment, but only on condition that BHC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BHC, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to BHC on terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS BHC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of BHC
Section 2.01. BHC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of the


﻿-2-
Project in close cooperation with GHA and PMU and conduct its
operations and affairs with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate economic, financial and investment
standards and practices, with qualified and experienced manage-
ment and in accordance with its Decree and By-laws, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for Part C of
the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, BHC shall submit
Investment Projects to the Association for approval or for autho-
rization for withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account.
(b) When presenting an Investment Project (other than a
free-limit Investment Project) to the Association for approval,
BHC shall furnish to the Association an application, in form
satisfactory to the Association, together with: (i) a description
of the Investment Enterprise (including an analysis of the
operational performance, management, and financial position in
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Association) and
an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the loan
to the Investment Enterprise, including the schedule of amortiza-
tion of said loan; and (iii) such other information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by BHC for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit
Investment Project shall contain: (i) a summary description of
the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) the terms and conditions of
the loan to the Investment Enterprise, including the schedule of
amortization therefor.
(d) Except as the Association and BHC shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be presented to the
Association on or before December 31, 1989.
Section 2.03. (a) BHC undertakes that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any loans on account of Investment
Projects will be made on terms whereby BHC shall obtain, by


﻿-3-
written agreement or other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Association and of BHC,
including the rights set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) BHC shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Association and of BHC; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement    of  the  goods  and  consultants' services
required for Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.05. BHC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition) in respect of the BHC Project Agreement and Part C
of the Project.
Section 2.06. BHC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BHC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) BHC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) BHC shall furnish to the Association all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
expenditure  of   the  proceeds   of  the   loans  to   Investment
Enterprises, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects,
and the administration, operations and financial condition of
BHC.
(c) BHC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part C of the Project, the accomplishment of the


﻿-4-
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BHC of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.08. BHC shall duly perform all its obligations in
agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at
the disposal of BHC by the Borrower or its agencies or others for
relending, investment or management. BHC shall promptly inform
the Association of any action which would have the effect of
assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any material
provision of, any such agreement.
Section 2.09. BHC shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of BHC under this
Agreement to the extent to which such obligations may be made
applicable thereto as though such obligations were binding upon
each of such Subsidiaries.
Section 2.10. BHC shall not amend its Decree or By-laws
except in agreement with the Association, and shall exchange
views with the Association on any proposal to modify its Decree
or By-laws.
Section 2.11. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BHC: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on its opera-
tions and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of
its business.
Section 2.12. BHC shall cause Plant Pool to make available
to GHA, DFR and contractors and quarry operators for the purposes
of the Project equipment and materials financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit through sale or hire on terms acceptable
to the Association.
Section 2.13. BHC shall, and shall cause Plant Pool to, take
out and maintain with responsible insurers insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice, including reinsurance abroad for warehoused spare parts
so as to ensure that any indemnity shall be payable in a freely
usable currency.


﻿5-
Section 2.14. BHC shall, in cooperation with the Borrower:
(i) adopt an action program acceptable to the Association by
September 30, 1985 for strengthening its financial condition and
operational and financial management capabilities; and (ii)
thereafter carry out such action program with due diligence and
efficiency.
Article III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) BHC shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part C of the
Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of BHC, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part C of
the Project, and shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine such records.
(b) BHC shall:
(i) have   its   accounts  and   financial  statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited (including copies of Management/Internal
Control Letters); and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such format
and detail as the Association shall have reason-
ably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-6-
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, BHC shall, and shall cause Plant Pool to:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives    to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BHC shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity in
respect of any of its debt which, in the judgment of the Associa-
tion, would materially affect BHC's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 3.03. BHC shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including Cedis) used in its lending and
borrowing operations.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BHC shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than
10 to 1.
(b) For purposes of this Section:


﻿- 7 -
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of BHC
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date, and to the
extent, the amount of such debt has become out-
standing pursuant to such contract, agreement or
instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such gua-
rantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii) The term "equity" means the sum of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital, quasi equity, retained
earnings and reserves of BHC not allocated to
cover specific liabilities.
(iv) The   term   "quasi   equity"  means   the  special
assistance provided to BHC by the Bank of Ghana
pursuant  to   the  special  assistance  agreement
referred to in the letter dated March 4, 1985 by
the Bank of Ghana to the World Bank, or any
similar arrangement.
(v) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in Cedis, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the pur-
poses of servicing such debt, or, in the absence
of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-8-
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of BHC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date 12 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BHC of this event.
Section. 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement rhall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be deliVered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
For BHC:
Bank for Housing and Construction
P. 0. Box M
Accra
Ghana
Cable address                       Telex:
BANKHOUSE                        2096
Accra
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BHC, may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director, or by such other person or persons as BHC
shall designate in writing, and BHC shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively b,xt one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By      ~      4   ~   o   a
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
BANK FOR HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE I
Loans on Account of Investment Projects
A.   Terms and Conditions of Loans on Account of Investment
Projects
1.   Loans to Investment Enterprises will include, inter alia,
the following terms and conditions:
(i) Repayment
(a) The repayment period is not to exceed 12 years,
including a grace period not exceeding 2 years.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each loan
will provide for a grace period of not more than
3 years.
(c)  Investment Enterprises shall carry the foreign
exchange risk..
(d) No loan may be repaid in advance of maturity
during the first two years of the term of such
loan.
(ii) Interest Rate
Interest on the principal amount of each loan outstanding
from time to time will be parable at a rate of 20% per annum,
which rate shall be subject to review and modifir!ation from time
to  time  upon  agreement between    the  Borrower, BHC and    the
Association.
(iii) Other Conditions
(a) A commitment fee of not more than one per cent per
annum may be charged to Investment Enterprises by
BHC on the undisbursed principal amount of each
loan.
(b) Equipment and materials financed by BHC shall only
be used for the purposes of the Project.


﻿- 11 -
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BHC shall
obtain, inter alia, in respect of loans to Investment Enterprises
the right to:
(a) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association i the Association shall so request, such goods,
works, and construction included in the Investment Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(c) obtain all such information as the Association or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and
to the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the
Investment Project; and
(d) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
agreement with BHC.
B.   Plant Pool
BHC shall cause Plant Pool to obtain, as a condition of
loans for Investment Projects, insurance for warehoused spare
parts against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice, including reinsurance
abroad so as to ensure that any indemnity shall be payable in a
freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interne-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 S
FOR SECRETARY


