OFFICIAL
~DOCUMENTS            C,/c/C
JAPANESE GRANT NUMBER 1601-1 GH
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPmENT ASSOCIATION
as AWyMINISTRATOR of the
Japanese Funds within the framework of the
SPECIAL FACILITY for SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated                                , 1987


﻿JAPANESE GRANT NUHBER 1601-1 CH
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    0                         , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Beneficia4) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the Japanese funds within the
framework of the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the
Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolu-
tion No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, (the Resolution), a Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) consti-
tuted by the funds which shall be contributed by the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and
other donors and administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of
the African Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with,
the provisions of the Resolution;
(B) Pursuant to Section F of the Resolution, the Government
of Japan (Japan) has agreed to provide Japanese funds in the form
of grants (the SJF Grants) in support of projects of structural
change, policy reform and institutional improvement in countries
which are eligible for financing from the African Facility's
resources;
(C) by the notes exchanged between Japan and IDA on Novem-
ber 20, 1985, (the Notes), concerning the SJF Grants, Japan and
IDA agreed that IDA will act as Administrator of the Japanese
funds (the Administrator) in accordance with the provisions of
Zhe Notes;
(D) the Beneficiary has requested Japanese funds from the
Administrator for the financing of mobile highway maintenance
units (including spare parts and a portion of the operating
costs thereof) under the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
African Facility Credit Agreement (Road Rehabilitation and Main-
tenance Project) dated October 23, 1985, between the Beneficiary
and the Administrator (the African Facility Credit Agreement),
and the Administrator has determined that the provision of such
funds (the Japanese Grant) would be in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Resolution;
(E) the Beneficiary has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement dated June 24, 1985 between the Beneficiary and IDA


﻿-2-
(the Development Credit Agreement), IDA is agreeing to provide
such assistance in an amount of forty million four hundred
ttousand  Special  Drawing   Rights  (SDR  40,400,000)  (the  IDA
Credit);
(F) the Beneficiary has requested IDA, acting as Adminis-
trator of the African Facility, to provide additional assistance
in support of the Project and, by the African Facility Credit
Agreement, IDA acting as such Administrator is agreeing to pro-
vide a financial contribution in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to ten million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 10,100,000) (the African Facility Credit);
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend, the Japanese Grant to the
Beneficiary in support of the Project, upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of IDA, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) the term "Association", when used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Interna.ional Development Association acting as
Administrator of the Japanese Grant, except in the phrase "member
of the Association" in Sec:ions 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e)
thereof;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit"
and "Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "Japanese Grant Agreement", "Japanese Grant" and
"Japanese Grant Account", respectively;
(c)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
'"Project" means the imports of equipment for the Ghana
Highway Authority's mobile maintenance units (including
spare parts and a portion of the operating costs


﻿-3-
thereof) that may be financed out of the proceeds of
the Japanese Grant pursuant to the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Japanese Grant Agreement.;'
(d) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(e) the second sentence of Section 5.01 is deleted;
(f) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity; and
(g)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)   Not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this pur-
pose between the Beneficiary and the Administrator, the
Beneficiary shall prepare and furnish to the Adminis-
trator a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the'Administrator shall reasonably request, on the exe-
cution of the project referred to in the Preamble to
the Japanese Grant Agreement, the performance by the
Beneficiary and the Administrator of their respective
obligations under the Japanese Grant Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Japanese Grant".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following mean-
ings:
(a)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
(b)  "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with res-
pect to which the terms and conditions of membership are those
prescribed in the Articles of Agreement of IDA for countries
whose names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to those Arti-
cles.
ARTICLE II
The Japanese Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the
Beneficiary, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to


﻿-4-
in this Agreement, an am int in various currencies equivaleftt to
seven hundred million Jap nese Yen (Yen 700,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) a1e amount of the Japanese Grant may be
withdrawn from the Japan-,,e Grant Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to L!me by agreement between the Beneficiary
and the Administrator,
(b) Withdrawals shaLl be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in the territories of: (i) any Part II
member of IDA; or (ii) aoy country designated by the Administra-
tor as meeting the provitions set forth in paragraph 4 (f) (ii)
and (iii) of the Resolution.
(c) The Beneficiary shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in e commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(d) The Beneficiary shall, to the extent possible, withdraw
the proceeds of the Japanese Grant and the African Facility
Credit before the proceeds of the IDA Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988     or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The Admin-
istrator shall promptly notify the Beneficiary of such later
date.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Beneficiary and the Administrator
shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
viev's on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Beneficiary
shall furnish to the Adii,inistrator for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project, in
such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Japanese Grant shall be governed by the provisions


﻿-5-
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, subject to the eligibility
restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Beneficiary shall raintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accord-
ance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Japanese Grant.
(b) The Beneficiary shall:
(i) have   the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Administrator
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Administrator such other informa-
tion concerning said accounts and the audit there-
of as the Administrator shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Japanese Grant Account were made on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure, the Beneficiary shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Admin-
istrator has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Japanese Grant Account was made, all records (con-
tracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;


﻿-6-
(iii) 2nable   the   Administrator's  representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Japanese Grant withdrawn in reepect
of such expenditures were used for the purposes
for which they were provided.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) an event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Project, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out:
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)  the right of the Beneficiary to withdraw the
proceeds   of  any   financial  contribution,
grant, loan or credit made to the Beneficiary
for the financing of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor; or
(B) any such financial contribution, loan or cre-
dit shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Beneficiary establishes to the satisfaction
of the Administrator that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Beneficiary to per-
form any of its obligations under such agreement;
and (B) adequate funds for the Project are avail-
able to the Beneficiary from other sources on


﻿-7-
terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Beneficiary under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Termination;
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereb- specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Beneficiary; Addresses
Section  6.01. The Provisional    National Defence   Council
Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning of the Beneficiary is
designated as representative of the Beneficiary for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Beneficiary:
The Provisional National Defence
Council Secretary
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box M 40
Accra
Ghana
Cable address:
ECONOMICOM
Accra
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Japanese Funds
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                          Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, DIC.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿9
IN WITNESS WREREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as Qf the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
B y              Cl Tt 4*
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the Japanese funds
within the framework of the SPECIAL
FACILITY for SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Japanese Grant
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Japanese Grant may be withdrawn
from the Japanese Grant Account for expenditures made (or, if
the Administrator 7hall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of equipping the Ghana Highway Authority's mobile
maintenance units (including spare parts and a portion of the
operating costs thereof) required for the Project and to be
financed out of such proceeds. The table below sets forth the
Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Japanese Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Japanese
Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Japanese Grant            % of
Allocated (Expressed    Expenditures
Category            in Japanese Yen)      to be financed
(1) Equipment and           500,000,000        100% of foreign
spare parts                               expenditures
(2)  Operating Costs        150,000,000        16%
(3) Unallocated              50,000,000
TOTAL             700,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Beneficiary for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Beneficiary.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;


﻿- 11 -
(b) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $4,000 equivalent; and
(c) expenditures for goods supplied under a cntract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to
finance.
4.     Applications for withdrawal of proceeds of the Japanese
Grant shall to the extent practicable be consolidated into aggre-
gate amounts of not less than $100,000 equivalent.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 3 hereof, contracts for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more each
shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).
2.   (a)  Contracts will be grouped to the maximum extent prac-
ticable to allow bulk procurement.
(b) Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspec-
tion by a third-party inspection firm.
3.   Equipment and spare parts of a proprietary nature or subject
to standardization and contracts for goods estimated to cost less
than $50,000, may be procured on the basis of price quotations
from at least three suppliers, with at least two of them located
outside of Ghana.
4.   Goods procured pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Sched-
ule are subject to the eligibility requirements set forth in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement. Such eligibility requirements
shall be stated in the tender or prequalification documents for
the procurement of goods pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Sched-
ule.
5.   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost an
amount equivalent to $100,000 or more, the Beneficiary shall fur-
nish to the Administrator, prior to the delivery to the Adminis-
trator of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Japanese Grant Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the res-
pective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
6.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Beneficiary shall furnish to the Administrator,
prior to the delivery to the Administrator of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Japanese Grant Account in


﻿- 13 -
respect thereof, such documentation and information as the Admin-
istrator may reasonably request to support withdrawal applica-
tions in respect of such contract.
7.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Administrator pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5 or 6 of
this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished to the
Administrator as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4
of Schedule 3 (the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
8.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 shall
not apply to contracts and operating costs of the mobile main-
tenance units on account of which the Administrator has autho-
rized withdrawals from the Japanese Grant Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
9.   The figure 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of the goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Japanese Grant in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Japanese Grant
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to para-
graph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to reple-
nish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Bene-
ficiary for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall,
on behalf of the Beneficiary, withdraw from the Japanese Grant
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Beneficiary shall have requested.
(b) The Beneficiary shall furnish to the Administrator
requests for replenishment of the Special Account at such inter-
vals as the Administrator shall specify. On the basis of such
requests, the Administrator shall withdraw from the Japanese
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts
as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Japanese Grant
Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 15 -
4.   For each payment made by the Beneficiary out of the Special
Account for which the Beneficiary requests replenishment pursuant
to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Beneficiary shall fur-
nish to the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such
request, such documents and other evidence as the Administrator
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Administrator when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Beneficiary from the Japanese Grant Account in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Japanese Grant
less the amount of any outstanding agreement to
reimburse made by the Administrator and of any
special-commitment entered into by the Administra-
tor pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
tions with respect to the Project, shall be equal
to the equivalent of twil-e the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Japanese Grant Account
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Japanese Grant shall
follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by
notice to the Beneficiary. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Beneficiary
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of


﻿- 16 -
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by the Administrator into the Special
AccG"nt shall be made until the Beneficiary has made such deposit
or refund.
(b) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Beneficiary shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting
to the Japanese Grant Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP: AENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


