Document of
The World Bank                     E
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3415-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$56.9 MILLION
TO MALAYSIA
FOR THE
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 29, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981   September 1982 /a
Currency Unit = Ringgit (M$)    Ringgit   (M$)
US$1.00       = M$2.30           M$2.36
M$1.00        = US$0.435         US$0.424
FISCAL YEAR
ii'                            January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)              =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 mile
1 meter (m)                 =  3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq m)       =  10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (cu m)        =  35.31 cubic feet
= 1.308 cubic yards
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.2 pounds
1 ton                       =  1,000 kgs
= 2,205 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BPM      =  Bank Pertanian Malaysia (Agricultural Bank of Malaysia)
CCL      =  Critical Consumption Level
DID      =  Drainage and Irrigation Department
DOA      =  Department of Agriculture
DOF      =  Department of Fisheries
DLM      =  Department of Lands and Mines
dusun    =  backyard fruit orchard
EPU      =  Economic Planning Unit (Federal)
ERR      =  Economic Rate of Return
FAMA     =  Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority
FELCRA   =  Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
FELDA    =  Federal Land Development Authority
FDC      =  Farmers Development Center
FOA      =  Farmers Organization Authority
GPC      =  Group Processing Center
ICB      =  International Competitive Bidding
KGT      =  Kompleks Geraktani - Agricultural Operations Complex
LCB      =  Local Competitive Bidding
LPN      =  Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara (National Padi and Rice Authority)
MARDI    = Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
MOA      =  Ministry of Agriculture
NPV      =  Net Present Value
O&M      =  Operation and Maintenance
RACT     =  Rural Agricultural Training Center
RISDA    =  Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
SPWD     =  State Public Works Department
/a  At the time of appraisal, the exchange rate was US$1.00 = M$ 2.30.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Government of Malaysia
Beneficiary:    State of Kedah
Amount:          $56.9 million equivalent (including the capitalized
front-end fee)
Terms:           Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:  The project would provide for replanting of about 15,100 ha
of old rubber areas and maintenance up to maturity of about
13,200 ha of rubber replanted in 1977-82; the establishment
of about 240 group processing centers for farmers' rubber;
construction and rehabilitation of about 38 small irrigation
schemes for about 8,850 ha; construction of about 380 km of
farm roads and 370 km of access roads in agricultural areas;
rehabilitation of about 2,000 ha of smallholder house
orchards; development of about 210 ha of freshwater fish-
ponds and provision of training and laboratory facilities at
two State fisheries centers. The project would also provide
for various agricultural services, including staff and
farmer training, equipment and vehicles for project opera-
tion and maintenance, and consulting services for studies,
design, and construction supervision.
The project would directly increase the incomes of about
20,500 low-income rubber smallholders and padi farmers, two
of the major identifiable groups of rural poor in Malaysia.
At full development, the project would enable these bene-
ficiaries to approximately double their average incomes from
the present US$280 per capita to about US$510 per capita.
There are no unusual risks associated with the project.
However, coordination among the implementing agencies would
be crucial to project execution. To reduce this risk, the
Project Director has already been appointed and adequate
funds for consulting services have been provided to assist
the implementing agencies in carrying out the project-
related components.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Estimated Cost:/1
Local    Foreign    Total
…(US$ million) -----
Rubber development                      46.1       15.2       61.3
Irrigation development                  13.5        9.4       22.9
Access roads                             5.4        3.6        9.0
Dusun rehabilitation                     0.6        0.4        1.0
Fishpond/Aquaculture Schemes             1.0        0.5        1.5
Research                                 0.3        0.1        0.4
Agricultural service installations   8.9            2.9       11.8
Equipment & vehicles                     1.0        5.3        6.3
Consultant services & studies            2.3        2.5        4.8
Training                                 0.3        0.2        0.5
Land acquisition                         8.0        -          8.0
Engineering & supervision                2.3        0.2        2.5
Incremental administration
& operation costs                     6.5         0.9        7.4
Base Cost                            96.2       41.2       137.4
Physical contingencies                   6.1        4.6       10.7
Expected price increases                35.9       10.2       46.1
Total Project Cost                  138.2       56.0       194.2
Front-end fee on Bank Loan               -          0.9        0.9
Total Financing Required            138.2        56.9      195.1
Financing Plan:
Government                          138.2         -       138.2
Bank                                  -          56.9       56.9
Total                             138.2       56.9      195.1
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY         1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Annual         1.5    2.9   10.5   13.5   13.0   10.5    5.0
Cumulative     1.5    4.4   14.9   28.4   41.4   51.9   56.9
Rate of Return:    14%
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 3981a-MA, dated November 15,982.
Map: IBRD No. 16423
/1 Exempt from all taxes and duties.



REP(RT AND REOM'IENDATI()N 'F THE PRESIDENT
{F THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$56.9 million, including the
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance the Kedah Valleys Agricultural
Development Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
three years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report "Malaysia:  New Perspectives on the
Third Malaysia Plan" (No. 1594-MA) is dated October 14, 1977. In July 1980,
a book, written at the request of the government and entitled "Malaysia:
Growth and Equity in a Multiracial Society" was published. This section
contains information gathered in a recent (July 1982) updating mission; a
new economic report is under preparation.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia's economic performance was
outstanding in the 1970s. The per capita income of US$1,680 in 1981 is
among the highest in Southeast Asia. In the last decade, per capita GDP
growth has averaged about 5.5% p.a., somewhat higher than the 4% p.a. per
capita growth achieved in the Sixties. This sustained good performance was a
reflection of several factors including the country's wealth in natural
resources, especially ample reserves of cultivable land; an outward-oriented
growth strategy; good economic and financial management; and, not least,
stable social and political institutions. Three specific elements have been
important: first, substantial attention and priority has been given to
agriculture resulting in high productivity gains in the sector, which have
cushioned against occasional steep price declines; second, manufacturing
growth has been rapid, at about 12% p.a. in the last two decades, following
first an import substituting pattern, but later increasingly oriented
towards exports; third, in a very open economy with exports and imports
averaging 49% of GDP (1970-80), exports have diversified from an initial
large dependence on rubber and tin to include palm oil, petroleum and
manufactured goods.
4.        Malaysia is a multiracial society with approximately 55% of the
population indigenous Malays, 35% Chinese and the remainder largely Indian.
The country has inherited deep divisions in the distribution of income
between ethnic communities and has also been struggling with a serious
poverty problem. In 1970, about half the households in the country had
insufficient incomes to provide minimum requirements of food, shelter,
clothing and other basic needs. This poverty has been concentrated among
agricultural families, which are predominantly Malay.  In 1971, the govern-
ment declared a New Economic Policy (NEP) and accorded the highest priority to
eradicating poverty and reducing the racial imbalance in income, employment
and the ownership of assets. More specifically, it was targeted that by
1990 the incidence of poverty would be reduced to 16.7% of households, and
that the share of Bumiputera /1 in the ownership of the corporate sector
/1 "Bumiputera" literally means "son of the soil." The word is used to
refer to Malays and other indigenous groups.



- 2 -
will increase from about 4% in 1970 to at least 30%. These intentions serve
as the fundamental policy objectives of government. In the mid-term of this
program, substantial progress has been made. By 1980, the incidence of
poverty had declined to about 29% of all households and there were 125,000
fewer poor households than in 1970. The Bumiputera share of corporate
assets increased from 4.3% in 1971 to an estimated 12.4% in 1980, whilst the
Chinese community achieved their target 40% share in 1980, some ten years
ahead of schedule. Over the same period, there were significant changes in
the distribution of employment in line with the restructuring objective that
employment in all sectors and at all levels reflects the racial composition
of the country.
5.        The government's overall strategy of pursuing high growth, along
with a series of direct interventions have been instrumental in this fast
pace of achievement of the NEP objectives. In particular over the last
decade, the rapid opening of income and employment opportunities in the
modern sector, where productivity and wages are much higher than in agri-
culture, successfully channelled the flows of labor market entrants into
positions where they did not become, or remain poor. Simultaneously, this
reduced the pressure of population on the agricultural base. Thus, only 14%
of the net addition to the labor force between 1970 and 1980 was accounted
for by new agricultural employment, in contrast to the previous decade where
35% of all new jobs were found in agriculture. At the same time, high labor
demand facilitated the penetration by Malays into occupations and sectors in
which they were previously under-represented, as well as fostered Malay
mobility into the more senior levels of occupations. In addition,
restructuring corporate asset ownership was made easier by the rapid
economy-wide growth, where redistribution could occur from the increments to
national wealth rather than from existing stocks. Direct interventions by
the government, however, also proved important in the progress toward
achieving the NEP objectives. These were particularly extensive in
agriculture, including new land development and farmer tesettlement, major
irrigation schemes, technical and financial support for rubber replanting,
extension and marketing assistance, and selective subsidy programs. The
success of many of these programs is attested to by the fact that
smallholder productivity over a range of products increased significantly
during the decade, with a positive impact on farm income and reduction of
poverty. The government also directly intervened to achieve the asset
redistribution target. Because the volume of Malay savings is relatively
small, as may be expected with lower average Malay incomes, substantial
amounts of corporate equities were purchased by the government to be held
"in trust" for the Bumiputera community. Recently a scheme has been
developed to divest these government holdings to individual Malays.
6.        Against this broad background of progress, the economy was
undergoing some important structural changes. Industry replaced agricul-
ture as the major contributor to GDP and manufactured exports replaced
import substitution as the cutting edge of industrial growth. As noted,
the composition of exports changed from a rather narrow to a much



- 3 -
more diversified set of commodities. This diversification has proved
important as two of Malaysia's major foreign exchange earners - timber and tin
show signs of flagging vitality. In the case of timber, exploitation of the
resource has led to detrimental environmental consequences and the government
has now established a Forest Conservation Policy which will limit, in effect,
the quantum of exports. In the case of tin, increasing costs of extraction
and the exhaustion of many mines have resulted in declining export volumes.
But perhaps the most important ongoing change in the economy's structure is
the diminishing retention of labor in the rural areas, such that it is
expected that the agricultural labor force may soon peak before declining in
absolute numbers. Whilst plentiful evidence points to selective processes at
work fostering this outcome, the precise turning point is not easy to predict
as much depends on the rate of growth of and the pace at which labor can be
absorbed in the modern sector. Nonetheless, some of the symptoms of this
change including accelerating migration of the young and educated from the
farms to the towns, more visible "shortages" of semi-skilled agricultural
laborers and an increasing incidence of idle and abandoned land suggest that
future problems of agriculture and poverty in Malaysia may differ in important
respects from those of the past. The poverty problem is likely to be
increasingly characterized as one of aging, elderly farmers, unable to adjust
fully to loss of family labor, with consequent reduction in their farm output.
The great importance of agriculture to the Malaysian economy both in terms of
its contribution to GDP as well as its role as a major earner of foreign
exchange - makes it important to devise policies which maintain the agricul-
tural resource base, improve land/man ratios, augment agricultural labor
productivity and incomes, and improve, through social interventions, the
standard of living in the rural areas. Mindful of these challenges the
government is currently undertaking a comprehensive review of agricultural
strategy and policies, with the intention of announcing a National
A.gricultural Policy by early next year.
7.        Whilst, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occasional difficulty.
This is true of the very recent period where Malaysia has been particularly
affected by downturns in the prices of major export commodities. Between 1977
and 1980 prices for palm oil, rubber, timber and petroleum increased rapidly
and export receipts nearly doubled. The terms of trade improved by 15% in the
same period and real national income increased by more than 10% p.a. Since
1980, however, prices for rubber and tin have fallen rapidly, followed by
*           declines in the prices of palm oil and timber.  The terms of trade losses in
1981 amounted to about 17%, with a consequent strong negative impact on gross
national income and savings. In part due to the recession in the OECD
countries, petroleum and manufacturing export volumes have declined. Somewhat
expansionary, contracyclical fiscal and monetary policies have been applied
to cushion the impact of terms of trade imposed losses in real income and to
maintain the momentum of growth. In combination, these elements have led to
sharp deterioration in the current account of the balance of payments from an
average surplus of about 2% of GNP in 1977-80 to a deficit of about 11% in
1981 and an expected similar outcome in 1982.  Gross external reserves



- 4 -
declined from about 5 months import coverage in 1980 to approximately 4
months at the end of 1981 and have fallen further by about 17% from their
end-1981 levels by June 1982. Inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price
Index, increased from an average of 5% in 1976-80 to about 10% in 1981.
8.        In the short run, Malaysia should not find it difficult to weather
external deficits of this magnitude. The country has rarely run large
balance of payments deficits with the result that its external indebtedness is
relatively low, and in recent years, the debt service ratio has averaged
about 5%. The country's creditworthiness ratings continue to be, therefore,
excellent. Over the medium term, however, very large deficits will not
prove sustainable. Some relief on the export side may, however, be expected
as recovery from the international recession should improve major commodity
prices and restore some of the dynamism of Malaysia's manufacturing export
growth; additional foreign exchange will be earned as the country begins to
export LNG (liquified natural gas), starting in 1983. At the same time, a
more appropriate balance between national expenditures and national income
will need to be restored. The "boom" years of 1977-80 substantially raised
the investment ratio to GDP as well as facilitated very high import growth.
Close surveillance over the level and growth of public expenditures, of the
efficiency of public investment, and of the size and sources of financing for
the public deficit will need to be exercised. In the longer term, the
economy will no longer be able to rely so heavily on the rapid growth of
primary commodities. Whilst Malaysia is rich in natural resources, which
will provide a reliable base for the expansion of the economy, the growth
rates of the production of such commodities as rubber, palm oil, petroleum
and forest products are all likely to be lower than in the past. With growth
decelerating in the resource sector, continued rapid industrial growth will
increasingly become essential to successful economic performance. This
imperative arises not only from the viewpoint of production, and the creation
of real incomes, but also from the viewpoint of achieving the NEP targets.
Sustained rapid growth in manufacturing will have to rely increasingly on
export expansion and there is additional scope for efficient import
substitution. Policies will, therefore, have to ensure a favorable
manufacturing environment. The Government is presently undertaking a series
of studies to serve as the basis for the reformulation of industrial and
export incentives.
9.        Assuming a sustained international economic recovery over the
medium term, continued expenditure restraint by the government, and an
improved incentive structure for exports, the current account deficit should,
relative to GNP, decline from 1983 onwards and achieve approximate balance
later in the decade. Under this scenario, Malaysia will continue to enjoy a
high, but slightly lower GDP growth over the next few years. The debt
service ratio will increase from its average 5% of exports in 1977-80 to 12%
of exports in 1990. At end-1981 about 13% of external debt outstanding and
disbursed was from the World Bank. These percentanges are expected to remain
unchanged by 1990. The Bank share of debt service is currently about 8% and,
again, is expected to remain unchanged by 1990.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
10.       The Bank has made 54 loans to Malaysia, totalling $1,400.94 million
for projects in agriculture, education, population, power, water supply,
sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban transport.
As of September 30, 1982, the effective loans to Malaysia held by the Bank
amounted to $1,046.23 million. Twenty-five loans have been fully disbursed.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank Loans and IFC investments, as well as
notes on the execution of projects under implementation.
11.       In view of Malaysia's proven capability to prepare and implement
traditional infrastructure projects independently, the Bank's present lend-
ing strategy in the country is to support the Government's programs to
combat the deep-rooted problem of poverty in the country, particularly in
the rural areas. The thrust of this strategy is not simply to provide
financial support to poverty alleviation projects but to help the Government
develop and improve a suitable institutional and policy framework for
anti-poverty programs. With this in mind, the Bank has proposed to undertake
projects with relevant institutions, such as, the Federal Land Consolidation
and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA), the Rubber Industry Smallholders
Development Authority (RISDA), and area and state development agencies in the
poorer states in Malaysia, which should broaden their experience in the
designing of projects and serve as a basis for building managerial and
technical skills within these institutions. Technical assistance of this
nature with a financial underpinning is considered to be the most effective
way in which the Bank can best support Malaysian development at present.
12.       Malaysia's own commitment to assist its low-income groups has
strengthened significantly in the past few years. The Bank has been heavily
involved in helping Malaysia identify and prepare projects geared toward the
rural poor. Prior to 1975, this was done primarily through expansion of
irrigation and land development as means of expanding output, raising incomes
and creating employment opportunities. To reach more rural households,
greater emphasis has since been given to programs designed to raise produc-
tivity in existing smallholder areas. The number of rural development
projects recently financed and in the current pipeline is impressive.
Eleven rural development projects were financed in the last five years, which
include improvement of irrigation and drainage systems, rehabilitation of tree
crops, national extension and research. At least eight additional rural
development projects have been identified for possible Bank support in the
next few years.
13.       As part of its lending strategy, the Bank proposes to continue its
involvement in the education sector in Malaysia by concentrating more
heavily on technical and skill training. It is also seeking new initiatives
in providing support to the manufacturing sector in Malaysia, especially in
promoting the growth of small-scale industries, in order to enable the
Government to realize its growth, employment and restructuring objectives.



- 6 -
Assistance to infrastructure in the future will be selective, concentrating
on providing access to rural areas and rural electrification.
14.       Overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in Malaysia has
been satisfactory. Disbursement performance, measured in terms of cumulative
disbursements to cumulative commitments from FY75 to FY82 displays a pattern
of continuous improvement over the six-year period. The ratio of actual
disbursements in relation to undisbursed amounts for FY81-82 also shows an
improvement over the FY77-80 period. The average ratio for FY81-82 is
18.7, while the average ratio for FY77-80 is 13.6. Overall disbursements
of $94.3 million in FY81 represented a 38% improvement over the FY80 figure
of $68.1 million. Similarly, for FY82, overall disbursements amounted to
$110.9 million, some $16.5 million over FY81, represents a 17.6% improvement.
15.       Malaysia's disbursement rates for FY82 were 19.9%, slightly lower
than the Bank-wide average of 23.9% and substantially lower than the 26.6%
average for other countries in the Region. Disbursement rates for two
comparator countries, Brazil and Turkey, were 16% and 31.3%, respectively.
The major problems causing disbursement delays are: delays in project start-
up due to manpower shortages and time-consuming land acquisition procedures;
limited capacity of the Public Works Department and the local contracting
industry. To improve the situation, the Bank carried out its first project
implementation review in collaboration with the implementing agencies in
November last year. Further reviews will be undertaken periodically with a
view to improving the overall implementation of projects, which should have
a positive impact on disbursements. It is also proposed to reinforce the
implementation reviews with occasional seminars on disbursements and procure-
ment (one such seminar was arranged in June 1982 in Kuala Lumpur) for the
benefit of the implementing agencies.
16.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling $8.69 million.
The total investments held by IFC as of September 30, 1982, amounted to
$1.14 million (Annex II).
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
17.       The agricultural sector plays an important role in the economy of
Malaysia, though its relative importance is declining as the country proceeds
toward industrialization. The sector accounts for about 24% of GDP, 40% of
export earnings, and 41% of employment. Real GDP in agriculture grew at an
average of 4.3% p.a. in the 1970s. Based on past investments in tree crops
and new land development, and continuing public sector investments, growth



- 7 -
is likely to be sustained at 3.5% p.a. for the next decade.  Agricultural
production has always been heavily export-oriented; however, the composition
of primary exports has changed significantly in the last decade due to the
Government's diversification policy. Rubber continues to be the single
largest export earner, but its share of total exports has dropped from 33%
in 1970 to 17% in 1980 as earnings from palm oil and wood products have
increased. Malaysia is the world's largest producer and exporter of both
rubber and palm oil, supplying about 45% of the world's natural rubber and
well over 50% of palm oil in 1980.  The agricultural sector's share of total
employment has gradually declined from 50% in 1970 to 41% in 1980. The
Government expects industry and services to absorb an increasingly larger
proportion of the total labor force in the next decade.
18.       Peninsular Malaysia has about 3.5 million ha or 25% of its area
under cultivation, of which about 2.7 million ha or 80% is in two crops -
rubber with about 1.7 million ha and oil palm with about 1.0 million ha.
The other major crops are padi, about 340,000 ha, of which some 60% is
double-cropped, and coconut, with about 250,000 ha. The entire padi area and
about two-thirds of the treecrop area are in small holdings, although much
of the latter land is in centrally-managed settlement schemes.
19.       Notwithstanding the impressive performance of the Malaysian
economy, in 1980 some 29% of the population had incomes below the absolute
poverty line, currently about $300 per capita per annum. Two-thirds of
these were in agricultural households, where the incidence of absolute
poverty was about 46%. The largest poverty group in Malaysia is rubber
smallholders. Despite significant yield increases over the past two
decades, their incomes in real terms have hardly improved. In 1980, about
41% of the 426,000 rubber smallholders were in poverty; similarly some 55%
of the 151,000 padi smallholders were in poverty.
Government Strategies for Agricultural Development
20.       Having officially adopted in 1970 the objective of poverty eradi-
cation, the Government has employed two basic agricultural strategies. The
first is development of new land to transfer labor from low productivity rural
occupations to higher productivity managed agricultural employment. The
second has been in situ development, including projects and programs aimed
directly at increasing smallholder productivity. Under the Fourth Malaysia
Plan, 1981-85, the Government allocated some $390 million, or about 10% of
the agricultural development budget, for multi-component agricultural develop-
ment projects. The multi-component concept emphasises improved crop produc-
tivity through intensified land use and better agricultural support services.
The Bank has participated in the financing of a number of these projects, the
present one being the most recent of the series. Implementation of these
strategies, aided by strong performance in the secondary and tertiary sectors,



- 8 -
has contributed to a significant decline in the incidence of poverty in
agriculture from 68% in 1970 to 46% in 1980. Strong industrial growth during
this period provided enough employment outside agriculture to absorb two-
thirds of the increase in the rural labor force. Large scale irrigation
projects, such as Muda and Kemubu, came into production in the early 1970s and
provided increases in rice productivity that significantly changed the income
position of 73,000 smallholders. These projects allowed the country to reduce
its imports from 22% of consumption requirements in 1970, to about 11% in
1980. Government agencies, such as the Federal Land Development Authority
(FELDA), carried out land development projects opening up over 1.1 million ha
of new lands, mostly for treecrops, and resettled about 250,000 rural
families.
21.       Aside from a wide range of infrastructure construction, research,
extension, and marketing activities, the Government has instituted a number of
financial policies to provide increased smallholder agricultural incentives
and incomes, including an interest-free smallholder credit program for poverty
alleviation projects. Other production and poverty oriented measures include
reduction in the rubber export tax, increase in padi price support, provision
of free fertilizers and subsidies on various crops, livestock and fishponds.
Ongoing Bank sector work is reviewing the impact of the various agricultural
subsidies in a sector-wide context.
Rubber Development
22.       The main agencies involved in the smallholder rubber industry are:
the Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA), the Federal
Land Development Authority (FELDA), the Federal Land Consolidation and
Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA), the Malaysian Rubber Development Corpor-
ation (MARDEC), the Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia (RRIM) and the
various state land development agencies. In 1953 the Rubber Industry
Replanting Board (RIRB) was organized to administer for estates and small-
holdings the replanting funds generated by a cess on rubber exports first
levied in 1951. RISDA, established in 1973, took over the functions of RIRB
and the Smallholders' Advisory Service of the RRIM.
23.        Smallholdings account for about 1.2 million ha or 70% of the total
1.7 million ha of land planted to rubber in Peninsular Malaysia. About
0.9 million ha are owned by 375,000 individual smallholders in holdings with
an average area of 2.4 ha. A further 0.3 million ha are owned by smallholders
whose plots are part of government-sponsored land-development schemes
organized within the past 25 years, including: (a) 170,000 ha in FELDA land
development schemes; (b) 50,000 ha in block new planting schemes administered
by State governments or State statutory authorities; and (c) 50,000 ha in
fringe-area new plantings mostly developed by FELCRA under its fringe
alienation schemes. Bank assistance for smallholder rubber development began
with a program of six FELDA projects involving more than 25,000 settler
families on about 117,000 ha of land devoted to oil palm, rubber and cocoa.
The first three projects provided for the development and settlement of about
40,000 ha, of which 16,000 ha were in rubber, in the Jengka Triangle region
of Pahang State. Project Performance Audit Reports for Jengka I and II



- 9 -
(Reports No. 2122 and 3021) noted the success of the projects in terms of
improved incomes and living conditions of the settlers and the build-up of
FELDA's technical capability. The third and last stage of the Jengka
Triangle project was completed in 1981. One more project with a greater
emphasis on oil palm, Keratong Land Settlement (Loan 1044-MA), is proceeding
successfully and is expected to be completed by end-1983.  The FELDA VI
Project (Loan 1590-MA), involving development of 21,000 ha of rubber,
8,000 ha of oil palm, and 800 ha of cocoa, is under implementation. Imple-
mentation of the above project is satisfactory and FELDA has now developed
into a competent land development agency.
Irrigation Development
24.       Irrigation development in Malaysia is devoted almost entirely to
rice production. The Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID), established
in 1932, is responsible for land improvement and water resources development,
particularly for rice.   Until 1960, irrigation schemes were designed for
single crop rice production during the wet season, providing water to
supplement rainfall during short periods of drought. In the early 1960s,
irrigation was expanded as part of the massive rural development program
after independence, and DID began emphasizing double cropped padi cultivation
by building storage dams and pumping stations and upgrading distribution
systems. DID has provided irrigation to practically all major rice produc-
ing areas, and 70% of Malaysia's 420,000 ha of padi land now has some form
of irrigation and about 50% is capable of double cropping. In addition, DID
has constructed drainage schemes on some 425,000 ha of land devoted to
treecrops.
25.       The Bank has participated in irrigation development in Malaysia
since 1965 when it financed the Muda Irrigation Project (Loan 434-MA),
followed in 1967 by the Kemubu Irrigation Project (Loan 500-MA). Together,
these projects covered nearly 120,000 ha, or about 35% of the padi land
in Peninsular Malaysia, and accommodate some 73,000 farm families. Accord-
ing to the Project Performance Audit Report (Report No. 1295), they were
successful projects which helped to reduce rice imports from 42% of national
requirements in 1967 to 17% in 1974, and resulted in increases of 75-100% in
the incomes of project beneficiaries. Design of field distribution and
drainage systems, based on standards prevailing in East Asia in the 1960s,
involved widely spaced secondary canals and field-to-field irrigation and
drainage. At that time, there was neither the experience in design and
construction of more intensive modes of on-farm development, nor widespread
use of high yielding, short-term padi varieties which depend on more precise
water control at the field level for optimum performance.  Higher standards
of on-farm development are now being initiated on 25,000 ha in the Muda II
Project (Loan 1717-MA) which is under implementation.
26.       In early 1981, the Bank approved two land development-cum-settlement
projects. The Rompin-Endau Area Development Project (Loan 1957-MA) would



- 10 -
involve land clearing and construction of a new irrigation and drainage system
for about 11,400 ha. The Trans-Perak Area Development Project (Loan 1960-MA)
would provide for improvement of about 3,700 ha of padi land, development of
about 6,400 ha of new padi land and about 8,400 ha of treecrops. Five other
Bank-financed projects, which will improve, expand and intensify irrigation
over 116,000 ha of padi land and drainage over 212,000 ha of treecrops, are
under implementation.  These projects include, in addition to irrigation and
drainage infrastructure, improved agricultural support services such as
credit, extension, processing and marketing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
27.       Under the Fourth Malaysia Plan, 1981-85, the Government has proposed
a series of multi-component agricultural development projects to alleviate
rural poverty. About $390 million has been allocated for these, comprising
slightly over 10% of the agriculture development budget. Under the multi-
component concept, emphasis is given to land use intensification, crop
diversification and improvements to agricultural support services. In 1979
the Bank received an identification brief for this project prepared by the
Kedah State Economic Planning Unit with advisory assistance from the
UNDP-financed Bank-executed State and Rural Development Project. Proposals
were based on the agricultural and infrastructure development strategy of the
Kedah-Perlis Development study as amended and approved by the State. A
feasibility study prepared by consultants in early 1981 on the "Intensifi-
cation of Irrigated Agriculture in Kedah and Perlis,"/l provided the main
input for the irrigation component. The Government's objective in formulating
the project was to bring all agriculture and related agencies together to
better serve the needs of mixed cropping farmers and to redress intra-state
income imbalances.
28.       The project was appraised in October 1981 and January 1982.  Negoti-
ations were held from October 25 to 27, 1982 . The Malaysian Government dele-
gation was led by Tunku Abdul Malek, Secretary of the Finance Division,
Malaysian Treasury. Details of the project are provided in the Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Kedah Valleys Agricultural Development Project"
(No. 3981a, dated November 15, 1982), which is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are given in Annex
III.
Project Description and Objectives
29.       The project would provide for the replanting of old rubber areas,
construction and improvements of irrigation works and of farm and access
roads, development of fruit and fish production, strengthening of staff and
/1 Jurutera Konsultant (Malaysia) in association with Sir M. McDonald &
Partners and Bookers Agricultural International.



- 11 -
farmer training and other agricultural support services, and the conduct of
agricultural studies and consultancy services. About 20,500 smallholder
families would benefit. The project focuses on two of the major identifiable
groups of rural poor, the rubber s.'IaILholders and the padi farmers.  At full
development, the project would enab1," the beneficiaries to increase their
present incomes of about $280 per capita to about $510 per capita.
30.       The main features of the project are:
(a)  Smallholder rubber development, invo.Lvinlg the replanting with
improved high yielding materials of about 15,100 ha of old, low
yielding rubber including some 4,600 ha in mini-estates,/l
maintenance to maturity of about 13,200 ha of rubber replanted
in the years 1977-82; establishment of a central RISDA nursery of
about 140 ha for rubber planting materials, the construction and
equipping of about 240 group processing centers and the
establishment of two RISDA smokehouses for smallholder rubber;
(b) Irrigation development, including improvement of about 38 irriga-
tion schemes serving about 8,850 ha of padi lands, through rehabili-
tation and construction of about 610 km of canals and field
drains and the replacement of five pumping installations; and
the upgrading and construction of about 380 km of farm roads
in padi areas;
(c) Access road development of about 370 km of access roads to rubber
mini-estates and to farmers' settlements participating in the fruit
tree rehabilitation program;
(d) Fruit development, by the rehabilitation of about 2,000 ha of
smallholder house orchards of mixed fruit trees through replan-
ting with improved varieties and better tree maintenance
technology; and
(e) Fisheries development, by the construction and stocking of some
160 ha of freshwater fish ponds on farmers' land; the development
of about 50 ha of ponds in aquaculture schemes on state land; the
extension of training facilities and rehabilitation of ponds and
hatcheries at the Inland Fisheries Training Center and the
construction of training and laboratory facilities at the
Brackishwater Aquaculture Center in the State of Kedah.
/1  Mini-estates are formed from contiguous areas of about 40 ha or more of
old smallholder rubber in which the individual owners lease their land
titles to RISDA from the time of land clearing through to about the first
15 years of production for the benefits of higher standards of field
management and larger scale replanting operations.



- 12 -
31.        In addition the project would provide for building a number of
agricultural service installations for DOA, FOA and FAMA, vehicles and equip-
ment for agricultural support services and operation and maintenance, staff
training both locally and overseas, and consultant services for detailed
design and construction supervision of project works and for studies on
aquaculture resources, fruit production/marketing, RISDA's financial resources
and management and identification of future agricultural development projects
in Malaysia for possible Bank financing.
Project Implementation
32.       The project would be implemented over five years (January 1983 to
December 1987). Construction activities-would peak in 1984, while agricul-
tural programs would be more evenly phased over the five years. Rubber
replanting including mini-estate development would be an extension of the
ongoing program with targets rising over the project years. For all
irrigation schemes designs and evaluation reports would be completed by end of
1983. Schemes scheduled for development in Langkawi could be affected in
their projected cropping patterns and cropping intensities by any changes in
government agricultural programs relating to the uses of the limited water
resources of the Islands. For the first five project schemes scheduled for
1983, and for all schemes on Langkawi, an assurance has been obtained that DID
would submit design and evaluation reports to the Bank for review and comment
before tenders are invited. (Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement). All
other irrigation schemes would be subject to Bank's post review procedures.
Construction of access roads would be grouped in three packages and phased
with the RISDA development program. For the first five access roads of five
kilometer length or more, an assurance has been obtained that government would
submit economic evaluations to the Bank for review and comment before inviting
tenders (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). The ongoing dusun
rehabilitation and fishpond construction programs would have steady or
expanding targets throughout the project period. Aquaculture schemes would be
scheduled for development only from 1985 based on the recommendations of the
Aquaculture Resources Study. Equipment and vehicle procurement would be
phased with field requirements and grouped as much as possible for ICB
procedures. The various agencies would recruit most of the incremental staff
over the first three years of the project.
Project Cost and Financing
33.        Total project costs for the five year period 1983-87, in mid-1982
prices, are estimated at $194.2 million, with a foreign exchange component of
$56.9 million or 29%, including the capitalized front-end fee. The cost
estimates which exclude all known taxes and duties are based on quantities and
unit prices prepared by the implementing agencies. Unit prices are in line
with recent bid prices in Malaysia. Preparatory DID civil works and
consultant expenditures totalling about $1.9 million from the time of
appraisal have been included in the cost calculations. Physical contingencies
of 15% have been applied for the civil works and agricultural development
programs, and 5% for buildings, equipment and vehicles. Expected price
increases over the project implementation period amount to 32% of base costs
plus physical contingencies, assuming annual price escalations of 13%, falling
to 6%, for foreign expenditures and 8%, falling to 6%, for local expenditures
over the five years of the project.



- 13 -
34.       The proposed Bank loan of $56.9 million, including $0.9 million
front-end fee, would finance the full foreign exchange requirements of the
project including retroactively, (up to $0.5 million), the expenditures on
civil works and consultant services incurred after appraisal (October 1981)
for irrigation schemes.  The Government's contribution of $138.2 million would
be financed through annual budgetary allocations.
Consultant Services and Studies
35.       About 1,550 man-months of consultant services (about 1,335 local and
215 foreign) would be financed under the project to provide implementation
assistance to DID (910 man-months) and to undertake four specialized studies
(640 manr-months) (para. 36). The average cost of local consultants (including
salary, overhead, profits, local travel and allowances) is estimated at
$2,200 per manr-month and that of expatriate consultants, about $8,700 per
manr-month. All consultants would be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures described by the Bank Guidelines and an assurance has been
obtained that consultants would be employed under terms of reference and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
DID has extensive experience in the design, execution and operation of
irrigation and drainage works, and is fully qualified to undertake the project
works. However, its current capacity is fully committed in designing and
supervising construction of onr-goir.g projects. Thus DID would require about
890 man-months of local consultants and 20 man-months of foreign consultants
to assist in the preparation, design and construction supervision of the
project works.
36.       Studies.  The four studies involving 455 manr-months of local and
195 manr-months of foreign consultants would be:
(a) Aquaculture Resources, State of Kedah. An assessment of the
potential aquaculture resources, both freshwater and brackish water, of the
State for future development. This would involve the preparation of a
development strategy with supporting economic evaluations, for the proposed
DOF aquaculture schemes that would supplement the income of poor largely
landless families. An assurance has been obtained that this survey would be
completed by March 31, 1984 (Section 3.09(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Bank has already received and reviewed the consultant terms of reference.
(b) Fruit Production and Marketing. A determination of the likely
levels of fruit production and fruit marketing prospects in all States of
Peninsular Malaysia, in consequence of the vigorous implementation of the
national smallholder dusun rehabilitation program, has the primary purpose of
ascertaining income prospects for smallholder fruit growers over the next
decade. Findings would serve as a basis for the continuation of the project's
annual hectarage targets in the dusun rehabilitation program. Assurances have
been obtained that consultant terms of reference would be furnished to



- 14 -
the Bank for review and comment by March 31, 1983 and that the study would be
completed by September 30, 1984 (Sections 3.08 and 3.09(ii) of the Draft Loan
Agreement).
(c) Financial Resources and Management in RISDA. This study of the
financial resources and management of RISDA is designed to establish the level
of financial resources that the agency will need to support its increasingly
intensive role in improving the management of smallholder rubber throughout
Malaysia and also the nature of the modified financial management systems
that could be introduced to ensure efficient implementation of RISDA field
programs. Consultant terms of reference have already been agreed upon between
RISDA and the Bank. Assurances have been obtained that (i) consultant for the
study will be appointed by March 31, 1983, (ii) the study will be completed by
August 31, 1983, and (iii) recommendations of the study as agreed upon between
the Government and the Bank will be implemented according to a schedule agreed
upon with the Bank (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
(d) Future Agricultural Projects. Studies would be financed under this
project to assist the GOM in the identification and preparation of future
agricultural projects including a national aquaculture resources study for
possible Bank financing. They would cover Peninsular and East Malaysia and
include development of strategies for development of large tracts of
unutilized or underutilized lands. An assurance has been obtained that
consultant terms of reference for the first of the studies would be submitted
to the Bank for review and comment by March 31, 1983 (Section 3.08 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
37.       Civil Works.  The implementation of major works such as the larger
irrigation schemes and access roads, totalling about $37.8 million,/ 
would be procured by ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines. The balance of
138 construction contracts to be financed under the project, with a total cost
of $37.6 million, including contingencies, would consist of buildings, rubber
mini-estate development, minor irrigation works, short stretches of farm
roads, and aquaculture schemes, with individual contracts estimated to cost
less than $1.0 million. With an average value of $270,000, these small and
widely scattered works are unikely to interest foreign bidders, and would be
procured through local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Bank and in which foreign bidders have the opportunity to participate. The
third category of works to be financed under the project totalling $37.8 mil-
lion are activities such as individual or group rubber replanting and fishpond
development which would be implemented by the farmers under the supervision
of the relevant agencies.
/1 All figures in paras. 37-38 include physical contingencies and expected
price increases.



- 15 -
38.       Goods.  Equipment, totalling $3.7 million would be grouped in appro-
priate bidding packages and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank Guide-
lines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid
evaluation of 15% or the import duty, whichever is lower. Vehicles and
equipment in various packages estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$200,000 each and the equivalent of $3.6 million in the aggregate would be
procured under LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Off-the-shelf items
estimated to cost not more than the equivalent of $50,000 each and not more
than the equivalent of $400,000 in the aggregate would be procured in
accordance with the normal government procurement procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
Disbursements
39.       Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made at the rate of 100%
against the foreign exchange cost of directly imported vehicles and equipment,
or the ex-factory price net of taxes for items manufactured locally, and at
the rate of 80% of the total costs of other local expenditures. Disbursement
for civil works executed by contract would be 44% of total costs. For rubber
replanting and maintenance, disbursement would be at the rate of 44% of the
replanting grant based on certified quarterly statements of expenditures.
Related documents would be retained by RISDA and made available to Bank
missions for inspection. For consulting services, studies and overseas train-
ing of staff, disbursements would equal 100% of total expenditures. Disburse-
ments for training would be processed by the Bank in packages preferably of
not less than about $10,000. No disbursement would be made against mini-
estate development (other than the replanting grant component), dusun reha-
bilitation, fishpond development and family income maintenance loans for
rubber replanting. Disbursements from the Bank loan would not exceed the
foreign exchange component and are expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.
Accounts and Audits
40.       All agencies involved in project implementation are all subject to
normal government controls and audit procedures. It has been agreed that
these agencies would maintain separate project accounts which would be
collated by the Project Director; that these accounts would be audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and that certified copies of
audited financial statements would be forwarded to the Bank within nine
months of the close of each financial year (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Organization and Management
41.       The project, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture (MOA), would involve eight participating agencies: (a) under the
Ministry of Lands and Regional Development, the Rubber Industry Smallholders
Development Authority (RISDA); (b) under the Ministry of Agriculture, the
Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID), the Department of Agriculture (DOA),
the Farmers Organization Authority (FOA), the Malaysian Agricultural Research
and Development Institute (MARDI), and the Federal Agricultural Marketing
Authority (FAMA); and (c) under the Kedah State Government, the Department of



- 16 -
Public Works (SPWD), and the Department of Lands and Mines (DLM). Other
supporting agencies include Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM) and the National
Padi and Rice Authority (LPN). Their respective responsibilities are detailed
in paras. 44 to 47. In addition, EPU would monitor the proposed studies
on possible future agricultural projects for Bank participation (para. 36d).
42.       Management of the project would be in accordance with the MOA
adopted 1980 recommendations of the Malaysian Administrative Modernization and
Manpower Planning Unit for agricultural development projects. A Project
Director (PD), already appointed by the MOA, would be responsible for overall
project direction and operation. He would be guided in this work through his
participation in the MOA Project Steering Committee governing the execution
and policy matters of the project. The members of this Committee would be
representatives of Federal Government bodies with project concerns such as
Treasury and the Public Services Department, and Directors General of project
line agencies. The Committee would be co-chaired by the Secretary-General of
MOA and the State Secretary of Kedah, the latter providing the Kedah State
Government with a direct linkage to project decision making and promoting
cooperation of State agencies and authorities. This management structure is
in place for a number of ongoing Bank-financed agricultural development
projects in Malaysia. The early appointment of the PD in this project
should lead to a smoother project performance than in several similar
agricultural development projects where long delays in the appointment have
slowed project implementation. The PD would be assisted by three key staff;
two economists for monitoring and evaluation of project works and an
accounting officer. Appointment of one of the economists and the accounting
officer is a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Further, to facilitate project management all line agencies
would be represented at the PD's office by a full- or part-time liaison
officer of senior rank.
43.       The detailed responsibilities of the PD would include:  (a)
monitoring the plans, programs and schedules of implementing agencies and
synchronizing them with the overall project schedule; (b) coordinating
multi-agency agricultural support programs; (c) advising agencies under MOA of
availability of funds for project activities, collating of project accounts
of all agencies involved in project implementation, and preparing statements
of expenditures for loan disbursements, (d) the monitoring of expenditures
for all agencies as a measure of the pace of project implementation; (e)
preparing annual project budgets, including staff and training requirements
and procurement of vehicles and equipment; (f) representing the project in
meetings of MOA with Government agencies in matters concerning budgetary
allocations and staff requirements; and (g) reporting progress at regular
intervals to the Government and the Bank.
44.       RISDA would be responsible for replanting, extension, processing and
other assistance to rubber smallholders. Fund sources for these functions
are largely the replanting cess on smallholder rubber exports (para. 22) and,



- 17 -
since January 1, 1982, a regular government-funded operating and development
budget. Uses of these funds are defined by Treasury regulation. This
tightened government financial and program control has placed RISDA in a
budgetary position similar to that of regular line agencies. Until 1981 RISDA
did not experience financial constraints but in that year its liquid funds
fell from M$309 million to about M$150 million. By mid-1982 they had further
declined to about M$85 million, an amount equivalent to about one third of
projected cess expenditures for the year. A deficit cash balance is
anticipated by end-1982 unless planned development and other expenditures are
strongly curtailed. Thus financial support for RISDA's activities in
improving the productivity of smallholders' rubber and the initiation of a
financial and management study as a basis for future Bank assistance to RISDA,
are timely components of this project. RISDA's most important activity is the
administration of the rubber replanting grant for smallholders which is
designed to cover most of the development and maintenance costs involved in
replanting, including land preparation, planting materials, fertilizers and
chemicals, up to the commencement of tapping. RISDA also administers a Family
Income Maintenance Loan program during replanting for owners of less than four
hectares of rubber and with a limited family income, and has instituted a
program of development of mini-estates to encourage and raise the standards of
replanting and field management. RISDA also encourages the formation of Group
Processing Centers for farmers in village locations to promote production of
improved quality rubber sheet; each center is operated by about 25 farmers and
is equipped by RISDA.
45.       DID would be responsible for implementing, maintaining and operating
irrigation and drainage works, the construction of buildings costing up to
about $0.5 million and of farm roads, and the engagement of consultants for
planning, design and construction supervision. The Kedah State DID would
assume the responsibility for operation and maintenance of works upon
completion and acceptance by the Federal DID. The SPWD would be responsible
for planning, design and construction supervision of major buildings costing
in excess of about M$0.5 million and all access roads of more than one
kilometer length leading to rubber mini-estates and to villages where dusun
rehabilitation programs are conducted. DOA would be responsible for
agricultural support services, particularly staff and farmer training,
extension in padi areas, crop protection and soil survey; training of tractor
operators; and supply of planting materials and other inputs for fruit orchard
rehabilitation. DOF would be responsible for the development, including
design and construction standards, of freshwater fish ponds on farmers' land
through the administering of a government subsidy which meets a large pro-
portion of the costs of construction and all material inputs in the first year
of production. DOF would also be responsible for providing field extension
services and farmer training in fishpond production technology, strengthened
by staff training programs, and the implementation of brackish water pond
schemes on State land for poor farmers.



- 18 -
46.       FOA would be responsible for management and staffing of the farmers'
cooperatives along with the management of the mechanized agricultural
services, fertilizers and agrochemical subsidy programs, and farmer and staff
training courses. MARDI would provide research and demonstration services
especially focussed on the agricultural production problems of rice,
short-term field crops and fruit. FAMA would be responsible for assisting
field crops, cocoa and copra and would participate in the fruit
production/marketing study (para. 36b). DLM would be responsible for land
acquisition and property compensation throughout the project area. BPM would
provide credit from its own resources to smallholders. LPN in cooperation
with the private sector would be responsible for providing padi drying storage
and rice milling facilities and marketing services. EPU would be responsible
for monitoring the proposed studies into possible future agriculture projects
for Bank involvement.
47.       Extension services and farmer training programs are available to
farmers through several of the line agencies including DOA, DOF, and FOA for
which the project would provide new or extended training facilities, and
RISDA. Although each agency deals with some specific aspects of production,
there are others, such as short-term field crops, which may be covered by more
than one of the agencies. Coordinated agency programs are therefore desirable
to avoid duplication and possible farmer confusion and the PD would furnish
action proposals in the first project year.
48.       To develop the project, it is estimated that the line agencies would
require a total of some 490 additional staff phased over the five year period.
Some 56% or 277 of these would be in staff grades A to C and the balance in
the low-salaried category, grade D. It has been agreed that Government would
establish an adequate number of posts to ensure effective project
implementation and post-project maintenance and appoint qualified staff in a
timely manner (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance
49.       Kedah State DID would operate and maintain the irrigation and drain-
age works to the tertiary level and farm roads. Operation of the irrigation
system below the tertiary canal offtakes would be by the farmers under the
guidance of DID irrigation overseers who would also instruct farmers on
planned water distribution and management. Under present policy RISDA would
operate and manage the mini-estates on behalf of the smallholder participants
from the time of land clearing until such time during tapping of the new trees
that each owner has reimbursed the agency for development costs not recover-
able from the replanting grant. Owners would then become responsible for
their own holdings. RISDA would also maintain and manage the two central
smokehouses provided by the project. Maintenance of other project facilities
including access roads to mini-estates and villages with dusun rehabilitation
would be the responsibility of appropriate government agencies. Smallholders
with fishponds would manage and maintain them under the guidance of DOF.



- 19 -
Cost Recovery
50.       For rubber, the Government imposes an export tax estimated at 28% of
the projected 1990 prices, a replanting cess of M(10/kg and a research cess of
M¢~4/kg. At full development in 1995, project production would generate about
M$30 million in incremental annual tax revenues and about M$4 million in
incremental cess collections. Nominal land taxes are collected by the State
and form part of the general revenue; the operation and maintenance of the
irrigation schemes are funded from general state and federal revenues. In the
Kedah Valleys area, irrigation rates are not generally collected nor is the
religious tithe, zakat, especially in the smaller padi schemes and the inland
rubber growing areas. Under the Government's poverty alleviation strategy,
income maintenance loans to rubber smallholders owning less than 4 ha are
provided interest-free and are repaid over a 15-year period. Based on the
present values (at 10% discount rate) of project rent, loan repayment, export
taxes, cess collections and project costs, the cost recovery index for rubber
development would be 81%, for irrigation and fishpond development negligible,
and the whole project 41%. Since all of the project beneficiaries would
remain below the critical consumption level (CCL), even in their highest
income years, the cost and rent recovery indices would be acceptable,
especially in view of the government's strong commitment to poverty allevia-
tion. Moreover, the Government has levied cesses on rubber exports since
1951 and consequently, the present value of these payments, although not
quantified, would more than offset the replanting grant provided by the
government.
Monitoring and Evaluation
51.       Monitoring of project implementation would be carried out by the
PD's Office. In addition, RISDA, DOA, and DOF would periodically survey and
report the benefits of their respective components. For the RISDA program,
monitoring would focus on identifying intending replanters so that they could
be more effectively phased into the replanting program, and on assessing
replanting performance. Physical and financial progress reports from the
implementing agencies would be collated by the PD and submitted to the
Government and the Bank on a regular basis. Monitoring of project benefits
would be undertaken by the MOA through its Planning and Development Division
which is responsible for monitoring and evaluation of all multi-component
agricultural development projects. Monitoring would include benchmark
surveys and subsequent periodic surveys and evaluations. The Division would
work closely with the key staff of the PD and the implementing agencies.
Environmental Effects
52.       Land development would be carried out within the guidelines of the
Malaysian Conservation Act which provides adequate safeguards against erosion,
siltation and excessive flooding. The scattered nature of development would
limit the impact of increased run-off and of dissolved plant nutrients.
Improvements to drainage and river channels would prevent occurrence of
standing water and flooding and thereby mitigate crop damage.



- 20 -
Benefits, Justification and Risks
53.       The project would contribute to the Government's goals of poverty
alleviation, increased exports of rubber and reduced dependence on rice
imports. The average capital cost in financial prices, including physical
contingencies, is about $5,100 per ha and about $9,300 per family.  The
incremental annual production of about 33,000 tons of rubber at full
development by about 1995 would result in net annual foreign exchange earnings
of about $48 million while the incremental output of rice (9,300 tons) would
result in net annual foreign exchange savings of about $3.5 million (all in
1982 prices). All of the direct project benefits would accrue to 20,500
smallholder families (about 123,000 people). The smallholders, over 95% in
the target group, have average incomes of about $280 per capita. With the
project, average incomes would range from $490 to $800 per capita. While
these incomes would take the project beneficiaries above the absolute poverty
level ($300 per capita) it is expected that their incomes would still remain
below the projected CCL.
54.       On the basis of the foregoing assumptions and a 30-year evaluation
period, the overall ERR is 14%. The smallholder rubber replanting component
has an ERR of 16%; the mini-estate replanting component 13%; and the rubber
maintenance component, 17%. The lower ERR of mini-estates compared to that
of the individual smallholder operations reflects the costs of additional
onfarm infrastructure and the often long access roads needed to develop the
areas. However, the mini-estate program provides incentives to replant old
smallholder rubber, often in remote areas, which would otherwise remain
unimproved and eventually go out of production. For the irrigation component,
each scheme would be evaluated on its own merits and should have a minimum
ERR of 10%. The dusun rehabilitation component has an ERR of 13%; the
fisheries component, 12%. At full development, the total labor requirement
of the project would be some 30,800 workers equivalent to 1.5 workers for
each smallholder family in the project area. The opportunity for substan-
tially enhanced incomes should assist in mitigating rural-urban drift.
55.       Risks.  There are no unusual risks associated with the project,
and those normally associated with project benefits, costs, development
period and implementation delays have been evaluated in the sensitivity
analyses. However, coordination among the implementing agencies would be
crucial to project execution. To reduce this risk, the PD had already been
appointed at the time of appraisal, encouraged the various project agencies
to work together effectively throughout the preparation and appraisal
process and participated in loan negotiations. Adequate funds for consult-
ing services have been provided to assist the implementing agencies in
carrying out project related components.



-21-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
57.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.  The appointment of an economist and an accounting officer to the staff
of the Project Director has been established as a condition of loan effective-
ness.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 29, 1982                                    By: Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.



Annex 1
- 22 -                                               Page 1 of 5
Page 1
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEVAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. XH.)                                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATEv-
TO~TAL329.8                                            MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      43.3               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 260.0        500.0    1620.0                890.1                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     260.0        590.9     712.7                701.7                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  8170.0      10863.0   13871.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 25.2         27.0      29.4                 32.4                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       20.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         31.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2120
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       24.8         32.9      41.1                255.9                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    248.4        273.2     313.0               1748.0                     92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YrS.                         45.1         45.4      41.0                 39.9                     39.7
15-64 YrS.                         51.2        51.5       55.6                 56.8                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.6         3.1        3.4                  3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.7          2.8       2.4                  2.3                      2.4
URBAN                              4.8          3.5       3.3                  3.9                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.8          32.5      31.1                 31.8                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND).    15.7         10.4       7.4                  9.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4          2.7       2.0                  2.0                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        56.0      80.2
USERS (PERCENT OF KARRIED WOMEN)    ..          7.0      36.0                 36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          85.0         99.0     122.0                115.6                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  107.2       108.9      115.0/c              106.4                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          49.2        49.2       57.27T               54.4                     66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       16.7         17.0      22.7Th               13.9                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      7.5          3.4       1.9                  6.7                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH <YEARS)   53.0         59.0       64.2                 59.8                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           72.4        45.6       31.1                 63.7                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-        29.0       62.0/d               32.0                     65.6
URBAN                               ..        100.0      93.07T               51.9                     78.9
RURAL                               *-          1.0      49.-/d               20.5                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        59.0       60.0/e               37.7                     59.3
URBAN                               ..        100.0     100.0c7T              65.7                     75.3
RURAL                               ..        43.0       43.0Th               24.0                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          7024.9      4314.1    7640.21c,f            8540.4                   1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     1790.9       1117.1     866.67/-f           4829.4                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            269.2        288.5     301.4/e             1047.5                    477.4
URBAN                            112.7        135.2        ..                651.6                    679.8
RURAL                           5683.3      1755.1         ..               2597.6                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        18.2      17.2                 27.0                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          5.6/f
URBAN                               ..          5.97T
RURAL                               *-         5.5/f
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         2.6/f
URBAN                               ..          2.3/f
RURAL                                ..         2.87       .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         43.4/f
URBAN                               ..         84.77        ..
RURAL                               ..         30. 17      .



- 23 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOHE            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRINARY:    TOTAL                 96.0        91.0       93.0                  96.2                    104.3
MALE                108.0        95.0       94.0                  99.8                    106.4
FEMALE               83.0        87.0       92.0                  92.1                    103.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 19.0        35.0       52.0                  37.6                     41.3
MALE                 25.0        40.0       54.0                  41.1                     40.4
FEMALE               13.0        29.0       51.0                  34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   4.6         2.9        2.0                  20.8                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           27.9        31.0       31.0                  35.5                     29.9
SECONDARY                         24.6        25.8       27.2/c                25.0                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       52.8ZI       58.5        ..                  73.1                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        11.8        21.9       38.0/c                 9.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        37.1        39.6      147.7                 116.5                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSANI
POPULATION                         3.2/h      12.0       62.8                  37.6                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
SBOUSAND POPULATION                 60.2        72.1      132.6                  53.7                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 16.0          9.4       2.6/c                 2.8                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     2788.3      3667.7    4848.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  27.2        31.4       31.3                  33.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             63.0         56.0      50.0                  52.2                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                12.0        14.0       16.0                  17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               34.1         33.8      35.0                  38.5                     33.6
KALE                                48.8        45.7       47.6                  50.5                     50.4
FEMALE                              18.9        21.5       22.1                  26.6                     16.8
EOONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4          1.4       1.3                   1.1                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   34.0        27.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.2        56.6       56.1/i                ....
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.2         3.3        3.5/i                ....
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.6         10.6      11.2/i                ....
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..        123.6    314.4                  194.7
RURAL                               ..        111.6    289.2                  155.1                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..                 178.2                    518.0
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                 164.9                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..         21.3      12.6                  24.4
RURAL                               ..          58.7     37.7                  41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for host Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; Ie 1975; /f Government personnel only;    1962; /h 1964; /i 1973.
May, 1982



- 24 -                                                                          Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICAT019                                                          Page    3   of   5
Note.;  Altonegh teb  dara nre dress from sources groerohtr judged the mast authoriltatie and reliable. it should al- be noted tbat tey -y    t be i
-stienahly  -mparable her anne of the hack of standardised drfloitiios and Concepts used by different c,uctrit  iOn collecting the date. the da   ner.
ebete.s.. oeful to dencrlbe orders of  Iagottuda, Indloart trends. and cbarersettee rert tot ajor dflferencn bet=eean cou-crlao.
The reference groupe are (1) the sane country grouy of the subjetr country and (2) a country group elth snmewhat higher  era  tncome than lbe country aroor
ad  the subject country (excett  for   "ign moose   0ll Expornrs" group  here "diddle Intone horth Africa and Middle  Eat" In chosen bhcause of etronget
sn-io-cultural alllnities).  In the refer--a  group data tho averages are populatIon veighid arithmletic  -eans for e-I indOiator and shn o    eh
mejartty  of  the countries in a group has data for that indicator.  Slnct rho contrage of co.noren  aoneng the iOdirators dtp-edt  n she  nailoity o 
and is non oaifarm. courier =sot he txerolsed It  reatitrg octrager  of ne iditcatorc t anothr.  Three a--ragas ore oair useful in Ionering  h  val   of
inditatca a  a tie amng the co-try ond reference groups.                                                                                                      
AREA (thousand sqhka.)                                                                       Pcpalarioa per SoapSeal Sad - torah, urban. and r        - PapuifIn  rural,
Total - Toral surface area co prisnng land area and inland motors; 1979 data.                urban, and rural) dividad by their reopCint somber of hospital  bed
Agricultural - Esti=lt of agriculturoh area need rrspcrarily cr per--nently                  eraiabl  it public and pri-ata goneral and specialinad hcspita1 and
for trnps, pastures,  tarket and kitchen gardens or tt lIe fallee; 1979 data.              habililation centers.  Hospirals are  ett     h athnrs permanently sraffrd
Gh7 PER CAPITA (US$) - GtP per capita estImates at current marker prtces.  cal-                dial cart are nor included.  Sarah hspitha. poaridsr, incipadly hath
tulared by sass on9erehor mytbod as oc.Id dank Atasn (1978-dO hasis); 1960,                 and medical centers nor pacmaoeoly staffed hy a phystciar (bu  by
1970, snd 1981 dana.                                                                         nedirol asittant, nuea   ddife  etc. of     ftih  ffer iJ-pt. ian  tacc, -
datioc aed peonide a hoOted eacgeo  medIca  fciiie,   o"sI           t
gRERGY CONSUHMPTIO  PER CAPITA - Aanual cousumptli- af romrctal energy (coal                   tical purp.ors urban hospitols itclude WHOs principallgenrerl hnspiteha.
and lignite, petroleum. natul gas and hydro-  cucleat end geothermal 01st-                   and rural haspitais, local cr rotal hospitalo mad medical and maternity
tritity) in kil-gca-s of ccal equlvhens per capilta; 1960. 1970. and 1979                    resater.  Specialized hospitals are incladed coiy under tott1
data.                                                                                      Admissions per Haspittl Sad - Total tober of admissions n alt diaciarges
from hospitals disided by the nu.ber of brds.
PTOOLATION AD0 VITA! STATISTICS
Tonal Pepulation, pid-Year (thonoands) - At of July 1; 1960, 1970, ond 1980              HOUSING
data.                                                                                    Average Sloe if Sausehold (parsons per househald) - toial, urbao, and rurol-
Urban Population (percent of total) - Satin of urban to fetal populatinn;                    A hbaseahld cansists of a group of individual sbnh share lItnig q-artaer
different definitinsn of uranb areas may affect c..arakiiity of data                       and the irnto meali.  A boarder or lodger may or  ay s  at be included is
a=ong ounrels,; 1960, 1970. and 1980 data.                                                 the household fee atatistical puposen.
Peoplaticn Projections                                                                     Asersgasnmberrofpersons perrotons-ratocl,urb:a,andrural -aserage nu-
Population in pego 2000 - Coror. t poynlorioc proje-tloes are based en 1980                her of ptrsons pee teas is all urhan, and total occopied cosnvetlcnai
tonal popalation hy age and nun and theIr EPrtallty  and farilliy rates.                dvellinga, reepert-inly.  Nvellings e-clode non-permasrot structures sad
Projection parameters for -    raliep cates comprise of three levels annum-             uneoccpled pacts.
ing life apnyctacnc  at liceh il-reating eith country's per capita intone             Access to flectriri  (pfercet of dvellings) - total, urbac. and rural -
lyel, and female life enpectancy xtabilizing ao  77.1 years.  ThE pard-                 Consentimeal dvellings sinh elcritiylip In lining quarteer as pereentage
meters for facthilly rter also hone threr lerels asnsulag  decline In                   of total, urbu., and raral d-ellingt renpeftinely.
fretility according te income her- aad post family planning parfermoece.
Elch country is then assIgned nae of these nine combinations of  .rtality           EDUCATION
and fertility trends for projection purpeses.                                         Adjus-ed gErcilmast laotlo
S-atiotory ppoplation - In a stat ioary populatien there is no growth niece                Primary schaol - totai. pmle and fmaia - Geon  total, male and female
the hitch  aiat is equal to the death rate, ond also the age structure re-                 enrollment of ail ages of the primary tenth an percentages of respectiva
mains conscant.  This It achlened only after fertility oases decline to                    primary sbehoo-age populations,; Iotmlly inciodes children aged 6-11
the oriepco -ent Intel of unit oat re-r-d-ctien  orae. ohea  eath generatian               years bht adjusted for different lengths of prIary edu atio; for
af unman replaces itself exactly.  Tha  satiansty pIpulation  site vas                     countries sith u-i-ersal educaic tetrollnt may exceed 11O percent
estimted an the basis of the projected characneristics of the popu1ation                   stnte sane pupils ale below or aboe she off icial sthool age.
iA the peon 2000, and the  tale of declipe of frttility rate no replace-                Secandary school - total, mate and femaie - Computed as above; senordary
nest level.                                                                                educatiotquirea aat let ftut years of approved primary inssenction
Tear stationary populatioo ha reached - The year  hek  tantionary population                 provides geneeal, wcational, or.   the   raining ifrct-nas fee pupils
site evill hereacbed.                                                                      usually of 17 to 17 years of age, correspondence couroet are generally
PEoplation Ornaino                                                                             excluded.
Per  q. kh. - Hid-year papolarIoc per square kiloeetar (1ff hettarrs) of                 Vocatianal enrollment (pereent of secondary) - Vocational institutio
total aeea; 19IO, 1q70 and 1979 dota.                                                    inciude techoicail industrial,     orether programs thich opeeate inda-epd-
Per oq. An. agdricltural Isod - Comp-td en shone for agriculnoral land                     ently or as departments uf secondary instutods.
snip; 1080, 1971 and 1979 data.                                                       Pupil-taa. h   cartia - PoimEc. and scdary - Total sI-d  t            1d i
Population Age Strscture (percent) - Children (0-14 years), oarkig-age (15-                 p    e  and -ao pdary i     . a disided by aasr   f  -tuehn    o she
64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of sid-year pop-                 corresponding levelo.
lattie; 1960, 1970, and 1980 date.                                                       Adult literacy rIae feecen) - Litearte adultn tf  rood mad anita)
Papelatieslecovh Slate R   r(prInst) - total - Annual gre-th rates of total aid-             a. a Percrtaae of total adult 1      Ition agd 15 ye    ad ne
year popolarlse for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-SI.
Poplucaion deayth Sane )percsnn) - urban - Adn.al g-nath rates of urban popu-           CONSUHMPTION
lations for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-80.                                               Pas.eseer lnCa   (per thousand population) - Pisesger tarn   tpIriae =otor
Crode Slrrk Sate (per th Ausand) - Annua lIne births per thonsand of mid-year                earn seating less thus tight par..; e1lde  ambIan1          , heare  and
populatin,; 1960, 1970, sod 1980 data.                                                     nil itary cehicles.
_ode Death lone (par thousand) - Annual dratbh  per thous-ad  odf  id-yeac                 kadie Receivers (per thouosad population) - All typen of rceivees for radio
populatian; 1960, 1970. and 1080 data.                                                     broad-casts oI g.rat.   public pat thousand of population; excludrs un-
Ir..t ke.'rd-citon kte - Avage onuhbe of daughters Ioomao sill bear In                       licensed recei. ers in  countries and in years vhen registratian of ridio
hIr normal repr-ducti-e period if she anplsience.  present age-spe.ific fee-               nuts sue It effct; data for recant years may cot be comparoble shore
tility rates; usually fine-year  -avra-en ending in 1960, 1970. and 1980.                  meat countrirs aoblihed liesing.
Pusly Plonning-Acc eptors, Annual (thousands) - A=rual soaber of acceptors                 TV Sacainern Ipso thonsand pophultion) - TV reteiners for heoadrant en
of hteth-centsnl devices under auspicen of nutional faily planning program. .              general ptic per thousand population; excludes unIlcensed TV receirers
tamil Plaing - Users (percn f married vomen  - Percetagf If maied                            In coutries-adlI  years i-rrgiotcutioaoflT  setf as ineffect.
semen of child-hearteg age (15-44 yours) aba use hirth-)oatrcl  desires in               Sawspsphr Circulation (per thousand population) - ShoEe  the anerage ir-
11 marriedwomen In samege group.                                                            iutienof "daily generalInterestt -      sppir", definad  asapartdiiaI
Fpubliatian denoted primarily en recording generat ones.   It is considered
FOnt ANDl NUTRTIeONr                                                                          tobh  "daily" if it appears or leant four tine  a sek.
lIden of Fond te-dctilon per Capita (1969-71-lOO) - Ioden of prer -pia annual                araItad on thr nocAr  t
production  af ail toed coamodities.  Produntio  excludet need and feed and              tickets nold during thr year, Incloding ad=lsnionb to drive-in cinemat
Is on calendar  eas  husu.  lo,khtleacoccr conmate geoda (e.g. sogatroca                 asd mabil unIts.
instead of -ugar) which err edible and contain nutrints (e.g. coffee and
gas are eonluded).  Aggregate pr-d-ctio- of each country is based as                  LABOR FGRCE
nat-orel average producer price atlghts; 1961-65, 1970. and 198d data.                  Total Labor Force (thsana.ds) -  acmn=ically ectine parsons,  ..cl.d.ng
Per capito supply of calories (percent of leaora=n sos) - Computed frn=                     atned farces and  -nemplayed bht excluding hnuaewtnao  studens. etc
energy equicalent of srt ftod supplies anailable in cosntry per capita                     covering population  tf all sges.  Definitions in rartois countries are
per duy.  A-ailable supplies c-oprise domestic prod-ction, imports les                    one comatable; 1960, 19701 ed 1980 dale.
e-ports, and changen in -t plc.  Set sapplies antlode asimal feed, xeeds,                 female (porten) - Fema.e labor farce as percae-age of toal labIor force.
quantite  used is fond p_ecesolog,  and  Icoses it distribution.  loquire-                Agriculture (petcent) - Labho  force in fotn.g.  foresIrI, bootIng and
masts _res estImated by PdO based . n physiologital seeds foe  "oratI oci-                  fishing as percentaga of tonal labor force-  1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
oily and hbalth ionsiderling  onoleonectal conpe-otor, body eights, age                   I.d,slry (percent) -   bahoe force in mining,  oonrtruecior  maoofactocing
and son distribelion of population. and allowing 10 percect for easso It                    and electricity, wter and gas as percentgag   of  total labor fence;
household lenel; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 data.                                               1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
Par carito su_ply of protein (grass par day) - Protola content of per onpita              P.rnici        Rtac  (pfercnt) - total, malt and female - Part-iiptlIon or
net eyuppl  of fond per day.  3et supply of fond ts drfined us abase.  te-                actisisy totes art computed as to-l, mat, end temale labor farce as
quirr=ento for oil countrirs aucablishad by USDA pronide foe minimum                      percenstgas of totll, malt nd female popsiation of all ages respertiely;
allo.ances of 60 grass of  to1 protein per day ond 20 gras  of animal end                  1960. 170        980 daa.  These err bed n  lL's partitipati-n rctes
pulse proein.l of which 1 Igrae. should bh  anim   protein.  Thee nstand-                  rafl-ttiag age-sen structurs of thb  popu'ation  and tong rime trnd.A
odt, are hoses tha   hose of 75 grSm  of tonul protein end 2) grass of                     fee estimstas ate from natienal soutran.
animal pronein es anonetage for ohs evrld. proposed by PFAO in the Third                Econosi Depenrdeny Rarf       o - Rotit  r  popf ul-ton srd-r 15 and 65 sod coot
World Fond Snooty; 1961,1970 and 1977 daca.                                               to the total labor foece.
Pat rupist protein supply fto= animal and pulr - Pro, ein supply of fond de-
rivmd from animals and polnse  is grass par day; 1961 65, 1970 and 1977 data.        INCO11f  DITTRIBUTlON
Child (anon 1-4)  Oeth Rloe (per thousond) - Annual deaths par thousond in                Percentage of Privatr Income (both lo rank and kind) - Rhc-in-d by richest
ago group 1k p4 Iy , to rhildren in this age group; for nest developaing con-              5 peecent, richest 20 parrent, pporens  20 percent. oad poorest 40 percent
rires data derived frco  lift eaIebl; 1960, 1970 and 1980 daoa.                           of households.
Hb'ALTH                                                                                   POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Life toI ...ssey an Birth (yearn   A-lecgr nusbst ofy arso  life remainig                 The  -1 toloi`g estlmar  are Illy ap....tmas  ne.n...o of p-orty lne
at birth; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data                                                         and should be ifteeprated nith  ...aIdatubla caui  of.
lnfant hfrealitr Sate (per thousaad) - Annual deaths of ilfeants undearnet peon           E-timatd Abmalate Poverty Income Lenel fOIl per tlpita) -  rban und r_ral -
af age par thtwusnd live births; 1960, 19)0 and 1980 data.                                 Ahonlute poserty income level is that in1o-s level beloe ahih a minIl
lccess to Safe Outer (percent if population) - total, orham, and rural - Nm-                nutritionally adequate dirt pil   bn-tial  non-fond r-qulrsmarts Is not
ber If people (total. urban, and ontol) sith reasonable .ca.  t saPf                      affordable.
mater supply (includes trean-d surface estate  or untreated hot -n-caianatad            Efst-matd Relati-e Poveety In ome Lesel (USf  per capita) - orban and t-al -
marar sock us thot from protectsd bor.hole,s springs, and sanitary wl lls) as             Real ttlative party iscaht level is  nra-third of a'etage yet capir     a
percenagea Iof their respette populations.  1n an urban erea a public                      persnal         o i   o                      el    detd tram the Irual
fausr ais or stundyast ilcated eat mare than j00 tmatrs from a house may bh                ievel tilc  udjuatmeot far higha  rant af bring is uban areas,
cosaidered us belig mittid  roamable aunma of that house.  to rural areas               loitmadtd P,oplation Saes) Absalote Poverty iseam  ievel (petcent) - urban
reasonable enems would imply that the hou-erif- or menbers of the household               and retal - Percent If papulutle  (rbs na d  r atd   ) mh. rs "abash-
do net hate to spend a disproporfionste poet af the day  in totohiag the                  pant
f=illy'a wster meds.
Aceass to tmcrmru tiseosal (Petoast of poeulation) - total, ethos, and rural -
NSasher of people (total, arban,   d rur -l) sensed by erra  diasol s
p-rsentag.s of thairretpentis; papolatio.a.  Ebt.te   diepanal ma1 y telude
the aullmeg ia  sd disposm. a, With -  itmhos  trea t      f -, ad ta  anema
and  ..set-estee by  -atr-b-rne  yatst  or the use uf pit priele usd aIi-
let Instelist tees.
Poeuiation per Pb yadsa. - Population dLivded by somber of prmotfing phyps-                                                    Ecemamic and Sanfe1 DatS   Divfaln-
aisma qualiflted from a medical eshnel at amiseratty level.                                                             l-toaoedc Analysis aed ProjnotanaS Dkp-rteft
hpuaSejatan par Steesfang Perman  - PspnIat.ti  divided by atauber of pIaetimitg                                                           KoY 19g2
male sod finale graduassreasUb=. assistoEt nutmes, prou;tirsi nermes send
Osemiog sa         daitetina-.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Fage 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981:                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(Z in constant prices and M)
US$ Mln     %         1961-70  1970-76  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981
GNP at Market Prices           23,611    100.0         6.4       7.8     7.6   6.3   9.4   8.6   7.0
Gross Domestic Investment       7,979      33.8        6.7       9.6    19.6  10.8  14.1  13.4   1.7
Gross National Saving           4,911      20.8
Exports of Goods, NFS          12,509      53.0        6.0       8.0     4.3   7.0  13.8   3.1  -1.1
Imports of Goods, NFS          14,348      60.8        2.9       7.3    14.3  14.0  20.3  14.7  -0.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980 /a
Output             Employment        Output Per Worker
US$ Mln     %           Ml      x          US$
Agriculture              2,792     24.6         2.1    41.2        1,351      60.5
Industry                 3,657     32.2         1.2    23.5        3,035     136.0
Services                 4,920     43.2         1.8    35.3        2,701     121.0
Total/Average       11,369    100.0         5.1   100.0        2,232     100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
M$ Mln                      % of GDP
1981         1981         1971-75        1976-80
Current Receipts                 15,678         28.1          20.6            24.4
Current Expenditures             14,761         26.5          24.9            30.5
Current Surplus                     917          1.6            0.6            1.2
Direct Development Expenditures  8,527          15.3            5.1            7.3
Net Lending                       2,146          3.9            3.0            3.4
Foreign Borrowing (net)           2,903          5.2            2.1            1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES            1971   1972   1973   1974   1975    1976   1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi-Money            4,660  5,762  7,552  8,714  10,001  12,771  14,861  17,521  21,739  27,437  31,998
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                         1,046  1,188  1,378  1,748   2,155   3,036   3,583   3,379   3,803   3,972   5,552
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                         2,572  3,012  4,583  5,275   6,077   7,471   8,971  11,626  14,366  20,346  24,970
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money
as % of GDP                     36.0   40.5   40.3   38.1   44.8    45.5    46.0    48.3    48.2    52.9         57.3
Consumer Price Index
(1975 = 100)                    71.5   73.8   81.5   95.7  100.0   102.6   107.5   112.8   116.9   124.7    136.7
Annual Percentage
Changes in Consumer
Price Index                    1.7    3.2   10.4   17.4    4.5       2.6     4.8      4.9     3.6     6.7       9.6
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                          25.6   13.6   16.0   26.9   23.3    40.9    18.0    -5.7    12.6        4.4      39.8
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                          14.6   17.2   52.2   15.1   15.1    22.9    20.1    29.6    23.6    41.6         22.7
/a In 1970 prices.
not applicable
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.



- 26 -                               ANNEX I
page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1979   1980   1981    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-81)
(US$ million)                    (US$ Million)
Exports f.o.b.                  11,029 12,908  11,268   Rubber                        1,842    17.3
Imports f.o.b.                   8,003 10,711  11,591   Timber                       1,610    15.2
Nonfactor Services (net)       -1,094 -1,482  -1,541   Petroleum                     2,257    21.3
Resource Gap (deficit =-)        1,932    715  -1,864   Tin                           1,007     9.5
Factor Services (net)             -827   -899    -623   Palm Oil                      1,095    10.3
Net Transfers                      -55    -57      -46   All Other Commodities    2,810    26.4
Balance on Current Account    1,050   -241  -2,533
(deficit =-)                                                 Total                10,621   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment          666    979   1,349
Net MLT Borrowing /a
Disbursements                   789    358   1,874   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Amortization                     372    118      138
US$ Mln
Subtotal                        417    240   1,736
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed   4,627
Other Items n.e.i.             -1,741   -750    -452   Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Increase in Reserves (-)         -392   -228    -100   Total Outstanding & Disbursed   4,627
International Reserves          3,915  4,387   4,098
(end year)
DEBT-SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                         949  1,628   2,027
Exports                        1,999  3,173   3,144   Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed           3.2
Of which:  Crude Petro-                              Nonguaranteed Private Debt
leum          1,937  3,076   3,044   Total Outstanding & Disbursed            3.2
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                          IBRD/IDA LENDING (September 30, 1982)
(US$ million)
Average rate during period:                                                                    IBRD
M$ per US$    US$ per M$              Outstanding & Disbursed             633.81
Undisbursed                         415.27
1971              3.05           0.33                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  1,049.08
1972              2.82           0.35
1973              2.44           0.41
1974              2.41           0.41
1975              2.40           0.42
1976              2.54           0.39
1977              2.46           0.41
1978              2.32           0.43
1979              2.19           0.46
1980              2.18           0.46
1981              2.30           0.44
/a  Medium and long-term capital flows are obtained from World Bank debt data and are not
comparable with balance of payments estimates.
not available



- 27 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982)
Amount in
US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Loan No.    Year        Borrower       Purpose                      Bank   Undisbursed
Twenty-five loans fully disbursed                                   479.23           -
973        1974      Malaysia        Agricultural Development   45.00          13.90
974        1974      Malaysia        Education (III)               19.00        4.94
1044        1974      Malaysia        Land Settlement               36.00        5.34
1115        1975      Malaysia        Agricultural Research
and Extension              20.50        3.34
1178        1975       National
Electricity
Board        Power (VII)                   32.00        2.21
1213        1976      Malaysia        Sewerage                      21.50        6.08
1214        1976      Malaysia        Urban Transport (II)          23.41        3.15
1294        1976      Malaysia        Rural Development             21.00        5.79
1329        1976      Malaysia        Education (IV)                35.00       13.29
1376        1977      Malaysia        Highway (III)                 35.00       13.40
1443        1977      National
Electricity
Board        Power (VIII)                  22.00        4.11
1444        1977      Malaysia        Irrigation                    39.00       20.56
1493        1978      Malaysia        National Extension            19.00       13.88
1522        1978      Malaysia        Agricultural Development   26.00          11.45
1580        1978       Sabah Ports
Authority   Ports (II)                     13.00        2.86
1590        1978      Malaysia        Lands Settlement              28.00       25.09
1608        1978      Malaysia        Population (II)               17.00       14.07
1618        1978      Malaysia        Coconut Smallholders Devt. 19.50          12.43
1632        1979      Malaysia        Agricultural Development   26.50          13.80
1657        1979      Malaysia        Education                     38.00       23.76
1717        1980      Malaysia        Irrigation                    31.00       22.46
National
1808        1980         Electricity
Board        Power IX                      50.00       32.79
1899        1980      Malaysia        Kelantan Land Scheme
Rehabilitation             25.00       23.39
1957        1981      Malaysia        Rompin-Endau
Area Development             40.00       37.74
1960        1981      Malaysia        Trans-Perak Area Devt.        50.00       49.46
2013        1981       Malaysia       FELCRA                        37.00       35.99
Total loans (less cancellations)
of which has been repaid                          1,248.64 /a
199.57
Total now outstanding                                1,049.07
Amount sold                            43.89
of which has been repaid             41.05             2.84
Total loans now held by Bank                        1,046.23
Total undisbursed                                                  415.28
/a   Total does not include three loans totalling $152.30 million, signed in
October 1982 but not yet effective (2145-MA, 2146-MA and 2147-MA).



- 28 -                 ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982)
Year                                            Type of      Amount in US$ million
Business    Loan   Equity  Total
1964, Malaysian Industrial Development          Development
1974    Finance Ltd. (MIOF)                       Financing       -   1.94    1.94
1966  Tasek Cement Ltd.                         Cement         1.28   0.28    1.56
1968,
1969  Malayawata Steel Ltd                      Steel         2.45   1.24    3.69
1970  India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.             Textiles      1.25   0.25    1.50
Total gross commitment                                  4.98   3.71    8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs                    4.09   3.46    7.55
Total commitments now held by IFC
0.89   0.25    1.14
Total undisbursed



- 29 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13 pages
MALAYSIA
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
AGRICULTURE
Loan No. 1044 Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of clearing about 25,500 ha of land and
planting and maintenance of about 22,300 ha of oil palm; construction of
three palm oil mills and establishment of three urban settlements for about
5,100 families. The project is progressing satisfactorily. About 21,000 ha
of oil palm or 95% of appraisal target had been planted by December 1981 and
the third and last palm oil mill financed under the project is expected to
be completed in September 1982. However, there is considerable delay in
settler entry due to delays in provision of water supply by the Public Works
Department (JKR). Disbursements are 70% of appraisal target.
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$20.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is designed to expand and strengthen MARDI's research
programs and to establish an Extension Liaison Unit (ELU) in the Department of
Agriculture. The project was restructured in mid-1979 and the focus was
changed from commodity specific research to include all broad-based research
programs of the Malaysian Research and Development Institute (MARDI). Subse-
quently, the loan was reduced from US$28.5 million to US$20.5 million involv-
ing reductions in the use of consultants, livestock, equipment and civil works
components. One of the most successful components is the fellowship program
which has already provided postgraduate degrees to 222 staff who now consti-
tute over 50% of MARDI's researchers. MARDI has started to invite voluntary
researchers from abroad and three eminent scientists were retained recently to
review the future role of MARDI. To build a more effective linkage between
research and extension, MARDI and ELU are intensifying their working relation-
ship at headquarters as well as in the field.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



30 -
ANNEX I I
Page 4 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1493 National Extension Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of January 10,
1978; Effective Date: September 7, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project is designed to strengthen agriculture extension and
related services on a national basis. The key approach to serve farmers'
needs is through strong Government commitment to the Training and Visit (T&V)
extension system. Overall progress is satisfactory, but with variations in
the coverage and quality between States. In particular, Sabah and Sarawak are
behind schedule, mainly through difficulties in recruiting locally qualified
agricultural technicians. Progress in the construction of civil works still
presents problems, but improvement is expected with the involvement of the
Drainage and Irrigation Department in construction works in addition to the
Public Works Department. The delayed seed component has reached the stage of
tendering for the required facilities.
Loan No. 1590 FELDA VI Land Settlement Project; US$28.0 Million Loan of
August 11, 1978; Effective Date: March 9, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
Due mainly to delays in forest clearance and land release in some
areas of Pahang State, the Bank in January 1982, agreed to FELDA's request to
replace problem land areas and change the crop mix of the project. The proj-
ect now consists of land clearing, planting and maintenance of 21,000 ha of
rubber, 8,000 ha of oil palm and 800 ha of cocoa; settlement of 7,200 small-
holders; and construction of two palm oil mills, housing and infrastructure
facilities. FELDA plans to accelerate the project implementation rate to
complete all plantings by late 1984 in line with appraisal estimates. About
14,000 ha were planted by end-1981 against the appraisal target of 30,000 ha.
No families have yet been settled. Overall disbursement rate has been poor
with only $2.5 million drawn down by March 1982 against a targeted $17.5 mil-
lion.
Loan No. 1618 Coconut Smallholders Development Project; US$19.5 Million
Loan of October 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 23, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project consists of rehabilitation of about 16,400 ha of tradi-
tional coconuts and intercropping with cocoa, coffee, and fruits; new planting
and replanting of about 6,900 ha with hybrid coconuts and associated cash crop
gardens in the initial years; the provision for the importation of about 6,600
crossbred dairy animals for the development of about 3,350 integrated dairy
and beef operations in coconut areas; and the strengthening of support
services for crop and dairy production. The project is progressing slowly
because (a) demand for replanting and rehabilitation of coconut has decreased
sharply due to depressed prices of copra and fresh nuts, and (b) construction
of new milk construction centers (MCCs) may be substantially reduced due to
the slow acceptance of imported heifers by new dairy farmers. With little



- 31 -                    ANNEX II
Page 5 of 13 pages
likelihood of price recovery in the near future, Government initiated a review
of the future role of coconuts within the agricultural sector. After which,
the coconut component will be reassessed. The Government has also decided to
slow down dairy farming development and construction of new MCCs and this
component will also be re-examined.
Loan No. 1899 Kelantan Land Schemes Rehabilitation Project; IJS$25.0 Million
Loan of December 1, 1980; Effective Date: June 2, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The project will provide assistance to 5,700 settlers on TAKDIR land
settlement schemes to complete development of their holdings and to replant or
rehabilitate existing crops. About 1,800 families will be settled to develop
landholdings on the schemes. About 11,300 ha of rubber will be planted,
5,700 ha rehabilitated and 2,800 ha replanted. Implementation of the project
is behind schedule. Progress of planting and replanting have been delayed due
to insufficient supply of planting material and delays in construction of farm
roads. The Kelantan State Government recently decided to abolish TAKDIR, the
executing agency, and entrust the project to KESEDAR (South Kelantan Develop-
ment Authority). The capabilities of KESEDAR will be evaluated shortly and
the Bank will agree with Government the timing for handing over the project to
KESEDAR.
Loan No. 2013 FELCRA I Project; US$37.0 Million Loan of July 20, 1981;
Effective Date: March 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1986
The project would finance the fringe area and rehabilitation scheme
elements of FELCRA's tree crop program for the Fourth Plan Period (1981-85),
extending to a total 34,000 ha, made up of about 26,000 ha of rubber and
8,000 ha of oil palm. It includes the development of about 50 proposed fringe
schemes and rehabilitation of about 40 existing unassisted land development
schemes and provision of two palm oil mills. Although behind schedule,
project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Land development is
underway in 14 schemes, and about 85% of the cumulative planting target up to
end-1982 has been achieved. The first of the palm oil mills is expected to be
completed by end-1982 and construction of the second is underway. Progress in
procurement of equipment is improving.
Loan No. 2147 Malacca Agricultural Development Project; US$25.4 million
Loan of May 18, 1982; Not yet effective, Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project would provide for replanting of old rubber areas total-
ling about 9,000 ha and maintenance up to tapping of about 5,300 ha of rubber
replanted in 1976-81; construction and rehabilitation of small irrigation and
drainage schemes for about 4,400 ha; distribution of about 2,500 crossbred
heifers to smallholders and the construction of a milk collection center;
development of about 260 ha of fishponds; construction of about 140 km of farm



- 32 -                     ANNEX II
Page 6 of 13 pages
and access roads; and improvement of agricultural support services. The
project would also provide for equipment and vehicles for operation and
maintenance, staff and farmer training, and consulting services for studies,
design and construction supervision.
Loan No. 973 Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes main and feeder drains, farm roads, coastal
embankments and tidal gates to improve drainage and access in a tree crop area
of about 135,000 ha in southwest Peninsular Malaysia, as well as an integrated
agricultural development program to increase farm incomes through diversifica-
tion from rubber to oil palm and coconut replanting, rehabilitation and
undercropping with coffee and cocoa. Because of initial staff constraints,
land acquisition problems and inclusion of additional roads and other works,
project completion will be by mid-1985, five and a one half years later than
estimated at appraisal. However, the main drainage and tidal control works
have already been completed and road construction is progressing well. Owing
to infrastructure delays agricultural development has been slow, but the
government has formulated an action plan to accelerate it.
Loan No. 1294 North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes drainage and flood protection for 30,000 ha
and intensive irrigation for 12,000 ha of padi land; construction of 190 km
of rural roads; 15 small irrigation schemes serving 1,300 ha; construction,
rehabilitation and equipment of 25 farmers' development centers; and estab-
lishment of agricultural extension services. Problems related to land
acquisition, staffing and limited construction capability which initially
delayed implementation of civil works have been largely overcome. Most
project components should be completed by end-1983, some three years behind
schedule. Agricultural support services have been established and are
working well.
Loan No. 1444 National Small-Scale Irrigation Project; US$39.0 Million
Loan of August 3, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
This project includes construction of 195 small irrigation schemes
with a total irrigable area of about 54,000 ha; technical assistance and
training for DID; procurement of equipment and a completed feasibility study
for the Rompin-Endau irrigation project (Loan 1957-MA). Implementation is
more than 3 years behind schedule but construction is proceeding satisfac-
torily and work should be completed by end-1983. The revised number of
schemes proposed under the project is now 127, covering about 42,000 ha, all
of which have been approved by the Bank. DID is reviewing the merits of all



- 33 -                         ANNEX II
Page 7 of    pages
schemes as utilization of irrigation works in some schemes has been poor
which may result in project reformulation.
Loan No. 1522 Northwest Selangor Integrated Agricultural Development Project;
US$26.0 Million Loan of March 8, 1978; Effective Date:
June 21, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes intensification of an irrigation network for
20,000 ha of padi; drainage works for 77,000 ha of tree crops; and facilities,
equipment, and training to support an intensified program of agricultural
services for the Northwest Selangor region's smallholders. The project
started about one year behind schedule due primarily to staff shortages,
but now significant progress has been made on staffing, design and tendering
of structural tertiaries, and planning, survey and design of drainage works.
Progress on the agricultural component is satisfactory. Draft agricultural
services operation and irrigation O&M manuals have been prepared. The
project is expected to be completed by mid-1985, about two and a half years
behind appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1632 Krianr-Sungei Manik Integrated Agricultural Development Project
US$26.5 Million Loan of December 13, 1978; Effective Date:
March 6, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide improved drainage and irrigation facili-
ties, access roads, training and intensified agricultural supporting services
in two separate areas, covering a total of about 30,000 ha of padi land in
the state of Perak. Due to initial staff shortages and continuing delays in
land acquisition, project completion is now expected by the end of 1985,
some two years behind the appraisal estimate, but those difficulties have
been largely overcome and progress is more satisfactory. Total cost of the
project is now estimated at US$115 million, up about 92% from the appraisal
level of US$60 million. The substantial cost increase was due to the high
inflation rate in the construction sector and some increase in work
quantities.
Loan No. 1717 Muda II Irrigation Project; US$31.0 Million Loan of
July 30, 1979; Effective Date: September 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is the first phase of tertiary irrigation and drainage
development in the Muda irrigation area, where the storage facilities and main
canal system were constructed under a previous Bank-financed project (Loan
434-MA) during the period 1965-70. The project will provide tertiary irriga-
tion canals, drainage channels, and farm roads to serve nearly 25,000 ha of
padi land, representing about 25% of the total command area. It also includes
establishment of a highly organized extension system, improvement of operation
and maintenance facilities, and drainage and coastal protection works serving
the entire 98,000 ha area. Project completion is now expected by end-1985, as
compared to end-1983 at appraisal. Implementation was initially hampered by



- 34 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8 of 13 pages
delays in land acquisition, the nationwide lack of contractors due to the
booming construction sector and the need for retenders due to high bid prices,
but these problems have been largely overcome and implementation is progress-
ing satisfactorily. Total project costs have increased to US$100 million,
about 45% higher than the appraisal estimate of US$69 million.
Loan 1957 Rompin-Endau Area Development Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
May 6, 1981; Effective Date:  October 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project is designed to provide for construction of irrigation
works and development of new land for double cropping for rice on about
11,400 ha in four subprojects along the Rompin, Pontian, and Anak Endau
rivers in southeastern Pahang State on the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia
and for housing and social facilities for about 4,750 settler families.
Overall project implementation is progressing satisfactorily but delay in
obtaining forest clearances has delayed land clearing operations by up to 12
months.
Loan 1960  Trans-Perak Area Development Project; US$50.0 Million Loan of
May 6, 1981; Effective Date:  October 23, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989
The project would provide for development of 13,600 ha of new land
for rice and treecrops, and rehabilitation of 4,900 ha of existing rice land
in Perak State.  It would also include roads, housing, community facilities,
palm oil and cocoa mills, and supporting services for agriculture and com-
munity development for about 6,900 settler families, presently landless or
cultivating uneconomic-sized holdings in Perak and other states.
Implementation of the land development and irrigation components are
satisfactory but works on township facilities, project main roads and the
27 km West Coast Highway section are behind schedule.
EDUCATION
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project includes seven secondary schools, one junior college,
four teacher training colleges, one polytechnic institute, and educational
radio and television facilities.  Project implementation is about three
years behind schedule because of site selection problems, slow design and
tendering, poor performance by contractors and shortages of building
materials and labor.  About 90% of physical construction, equipment
procurement, and technical assistance programs are completed.  Arrangements
are being made to extend the current closing date by one year.



- 35 -                        ANX1
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13 pages
Loan 1329   Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of November 18,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The project provides for: (a) improved planning and construction
of approximately 850 primary schools in seven most disadvantaged states of
Malaysia; (b) establishment of four educational resource centers and one
teacher training college; (c) expansion of two and establishment of three
industrial training institutes; and (d) further study of community education
needs. The pace of primary school construction program (75% of project
total) is satisfactory. About 75% of the primary schools have been
completed. The industrial training institutes and the educational resource
centers are about 70% completed. All civil works are expected to be
completed in 1983. The teacher training college and a study of community
education are completed.
Loan No. 1657   Fifth Education Project; US$38.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effective Date: May 7, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
The project provides for: (a) construction and equipment for
76 lower secondary schools to be located in areas of poor access to
education; (b) establishment of administrative training institutes for
headmasters and other educational officers; (c) a new central campus and
three regional centers to expand the capacity and improve the program of the
national public administration academy; and (d) assistance to long-range
planning of occupational training. Implementation performance is good (of
76 planned secondary schools 13% have been completed and about 43% are under
construction), and overall the project is being implemented on schedule.
Loan No. 2145   Sixth Education (Industrial Training) Project; US$40.6
Million Loan of May 15, 1982; Not yet Effective; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987.
The project assists the Borrower in the first phase of a long-term
industrial skill development program. The program aims to increase the
supply of technicians and skilled workers, imporve their quality and
strengthen management of relevant training programs. To help achieve these
objectives, the project provides civil works, furniture, equipment and
technical assistance to: (a) establish two polytechnics and three
industrial training institutes (ITIs); (b) prepare for future establishment
of three polytechnics and two institutes (design and site works:); (c)
promote training in industry, improve training programs/materials/staff,
increase resource utilization, and strengthen polytechnic and ITI
management; and (d) strengthen monitoring and review activities for the
project.



- 36 -                    ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13 pages
ENERGY
Loan No. 1178 Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project consists of extension of the Prai Thermal Power
Station, installation of 132 kV transmission line from Majadee switching
station to Kota Tinggi, and extension of 11 kv distribution system to
two rural areas. Extension of Prai Power Station is now completed except
for the remaining retention payments. Due to savings in project cost, the
loan amount was reduced to US$32.0 million.
Loan No. 1443 Eighth Power Project; US$22.0 Million Loan of August 3,
1977; Effective Date: January 9, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project consists of construction, supply and implementation
of oil-fired thermal power station at Pasir Gudang, and supply and installa-
tion of transmission facilities. The first unit at the Pasir Gudang Thermal
Power Station was synchronized in January 1982, which was 6 months behind
schedule.  The commission date for the second unit is planned for late 1982.
Loan No. 1808 Ninth Power Project; US$50.0 Million Loan of May 21, 1980;
Effective Date: November 6, 1980; Closing Date: August 31, 1985
The project consists of construction of two dams and hydroelectric
power stations in upper reaches of Perak River, supply and installation of
associated transmission and substation facilities and, energy sector
development study. Most contracts have already been awarded. The project
is behind schedule by about two months due to delays in structural
steelwork, however, the completion date will not be affected.
Loan No. 2146 Rural Electrification Project (Power Tenth); US$86.3 million
Loan of May 15, 1982; Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
The project comprises: (a) 275 kV Kenyir-Tanah Merah transmission
line; (b) about 120 km of 132 kV transmission lines and substations; (c)
rural distribution network in Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Pahang States;
(d) minihydro schemes; and (e) consulting services for the 275 kV line and
minihydro schemes. The loan was signed on October 7, 1982.



- 37 -                ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13 pages
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 1376   Third Highway Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1977;
Effective Date: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction and improvement of
trunk roads in Sabah; (b) four-year maintenance program for Sabah, including
procurement of equipment, upgrading 290 miles of 13 road sections and con-
sultants services for supervision of construction and technical assistance
to Sabah's PWD; (c) development of pilot road maintenance and pavement
strengthening programs for, the states of Johore, Perak and Kelantan in
Peninsular Malaysia, including pavement strengthening of about 120 mi in
Johore; and (d) a transport/railway study for Peninsular Malaysia and an
urban study of Kota Kinabalu.
Overall, the project is about 80% completed. Construction work on
the east and west coast roads in Sabah (three contracts) started in
September 1977, about five months behind schedule. The west coast road is
completed. Of the two contracts comprising the east coast road, one is 90%
complete and the second is 33% complete. The work on both sections was
interrupted due to severe financial difficulties faced by the contractor.
Satisfactory progress has been made with Road Upgrading Program
and in establishing the road maintenance organization in Sabah and equipment
has been procured, but execution of Road Maintenance Program is limited by
insufficient funding and Government is considering supplementary budgeting.
Setting up road maintenance sections in three pilot states in Peninsular
Malaysia has been completed. The Pavement Strengthening Program in the
three pilot states will be completed in mid-1982 and is being extended to
other states. The urban study of Kota Kinabalu in Sabah and the
transport/railway study in Peninsular Malaysia have been completed.
Loan No. 1580   Second Sabah Ports Project; US$13.0 Million Loan of
September 20, 1978; Effective Date: November 10, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project aims at: (a) providing Tawau Port with the capacity t
meet forecasted traffic; (b) providing the ports of Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan
and Tawau with cargo handling equipment to meet future traffic growth; and
(c) improving the performance of the Sabah Ports Authority (SPA) by providing
technical assistance and staff training. Civil works commenced in December
1979 and are about 85% completed. Traffic for 1981 was more than forecast but
SPA's cash flow position is deteriorating because there have been no tariff
adjustments to rising costs of port operations and required port expansion.
Tariff increases have been proposed by SPA. Management consultants completed
work and submitted their draft final report in January 1982.



- 38 -                   ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13 pages
Due to delays experienced during the early stages of design and
construction, the Project is now expected to be completed by July 1983,
about 2 years later than anticipated at the time of appraisal. Most of the
facilities, however, will be available for use by the end of 1982.
Construction costs have escalated sharply due to the delays in project
execution, combined with rapid inflation.
POPULATION
Loan No. 1608 Second Population and Family Health Project; US$17.0 Million
Loan of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978;
Closing Date; December 31, 1985
The project is designed to strengthen further the national family
planning program in order to achieve the demographic goal of reducing the
birth rate from 30.3 per 1,000 in 1975 to 26 in 1985, with a corresponding
reduction in the population growth rate from 2.4% to 2% in Peninsular
Malaysia, and to extend family planning services to Sabah and Sarawak for
the improvement of maternal and child health.
Implementation of this project has been slow, due partly to staff
turnovers in the implementing agencies, and to planning delays concerning
several of the larger construction facilities. As of June 1982, 175 sites
out of 200 facilities under the project had been acquired and 95 are either
completed or are under construction. Eighty additional facilities are
scheduled for construction during 1982-83; none of the 11 major buildings,
however, have even reached the tender stage. Progress in the procurement,
training, the civil works component in Sarawak, and women's development
program activities under the Ministry of Agriculture are now satisfactory.
Limited staff availability have delayed completion of the integrated
development communication action plan, the base line project evaluation and
the functional analysis study.
URBAN AND WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1213 Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is the first stage (1976-81) of a 30-year masterplan
for sewerage development in the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. It includes
the extension of sewage collection (originally about 70 miles of trunk and
lateral sewers; actually about 81 miles) and treatment facilities to serve
an additional population of 200,000 in the Kuala Lumpur Federal Territory;
the institution of a separate Sewerage Department within the Kuala Lumpur



- 39 -                      ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13 pages
City Hall with its own accounting system and finances; engineering and
management consultant services; staff training; and the preparation of
sewerage and pollution control system in the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area.
Construction of the sewers extension is complete; construction of the sewage
treatment works have been delayed by persistent problems of land acquisi-
tion. Sewerage surcharges on water bills were instituted after considerable
delays. The project is, expected to be completed by about mid-1983, about
three and a half years behind the appraisal schedule, at about the estimated
cost.
Loan No. 1214 Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The main objective of the project is to increase the efficiency of
the transport system in Kuala Lumpur. Public transport services will be
improved while the use of private cars will be restrained. Although primar-
ily concerned with urban transport, the project also introduces new approa-
ches to residential development for low-income families. The main components
are: (a) road and intersection improvements, traffic engineering and control
schemes and construction of new radial roads; (b) transport policy measures
including introduction of minibus services, traffic priorities for high-
occupancy vehicles and area road pricing; (c) provision of new serviced
plots for households and businesses, and improvement of infrastructure
services for existing households; and (d) technical assistance to support
traffic management and transport planning, to prepare an urban development
project for Kuantan, and to review national housing policies and programs.
The major problems encountered during project implementation,
besides delays in construction, were reluctance of the Government to pursue
public transport policy measures and disagreements between the Bank and the
Government relating to policy issues on the Sites and Services component.
At the time of the earlier closing date of the loan - June 30, 1981
sufficient improvements had been made in the public transport capacity and
coordination among concerned agencies, the level of staffing in the Traffic
Management Department (TMD) and in the hiring of foreign traffic consultants
to assist in the training and advising of traffic engineering problems, to
warrant an extension of the loan closing date until December 31, 1982.
Civil works and traffic control equipment for the Traffic Management
Department - City Hall are nearly complete. The inner ring road has now
been opened to traffic. The Traffic Dispersal Scheme (Stage 1 with 2 lanes)
is expected to be completed by late 1982. At the time of the original
closing date, (June 30, 1981) the Bank had recommended and the Government
concurred to cancel the Sites and Services component of the project.



- 40 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the
project:                                     3 years
(b)  Agency which has prepared the project:    Ministry of Agriculture
and Kedah State Economic
Planning Unit
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank:   November 1979
and date of first Bank mission to
consider the project:                      May 1980
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:   September 12, 1981
and date of departure of post-
appraisal mission:                         January 24, 1982
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:           October 27, 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                March 21, 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
Appointment of an economist and an accounting officer to the staff
of the Project Director (Condition of Effectiveness, para. 42).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) DID would submit to the Bank for review and comment, details of
the preparation, design and evaluation of the first five
irrigation schemes scheduled for year 1983, and all the Langkawi
irrigation schemes, before tenders are invited (para. 32);
(b) The Government would prepare and submit to the Bank for its review
and comment, economic evaluations of the first five access roads
of five kilometers length or more before tenders are invited
(para. 32);
(c) The Government would ensure that the study on the aquaculture
resources of the State of Kedah is completed by March 31, 1984
[para. 36(a)];
(d) the Government would submit to the Bank for its review and
comment, the consultant terms of reference for the study on fruit
production and marketing by March 31, 1983 and would ensure that
the study is completed by September 30, 1984 [para. 36(b)];



- 41 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) the Government would ensure that (i) consultants for the study on
RISDA's financial resources and management are appointed by March
31, 1983, (ii) that the study is completed by August 31, 1984, and
(iii) that recommendations as agreed upon between the Government
and the Bank are implemented according to a schedule agreed upon
with the Bank [para. 36(c)];
(f) the Government would submit to the Bank for its review and
comment, the consultant terms of reference for the first of the
studies on future agricultural projects, by March 31, 1983
[para. 36(d)].



I



IBRD  1642Z
13F 0& IQ0 30'                                '.200      ~--       102-               MAY 138 
"- KHEAILAND\
f \                                                                                         >THAILAND   ANY
.)     X                 ~~T H A I L A N D                                                     j                  '
7'30                                                    ,         . '                         .%,o glorg,Vga                                            7°30    4         r
P- -             . FR                                        r                                                      4 A NG (
KANGAR
33                                                                   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g7                                 3,46
I   X                                                                                                     2_-34                                                                           >            2-
30       35
0 29    , PULAU LANGKAWI                                                                                                                                          -Cr60
MALAYSIA                                         ,             \ ETA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL     \A   H
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                       \00-
Project Area
Kompleks Geraktani   (KGT)
KGT  Sub-centers                                                    I
Extension  Sub-centers
0     Rural Agriculturol Tiairing  Centers  (RATC)                                                                       21                       16                 T  H  A  I L A  N  D
Farm   Mechanization  Training  Center  (FMTC)
X     Crop  Production  Center   (Sik)                                  2s
A     Agr,culturol Marketing  and  Processing  Center  (Kuah) 24
Inland   Fisheries  Train ng  Center  (Jitrai                   23
RISDA   Central  Nursery  (Sg. Petani)                             ',  *                )
@     Aquacutrural  Training   Center
tt    Padi  Schemes                                                                             ANGA  rETANi
-   Roads
Railyops                                                                                             \PA  SCHEM*ES                                                           NETAREA
State  Boundaries                                                                                7                                   13          i 'I 1-1s  a-                   B53
International Boundaries                                              ,i,7                                                                             d   S,,5 8I3
/t    N,-g63
6 30                                                                                                                                                                     4 1 P                          4 f  SKu 9r15i  61 307
/     5-iig  Soi>i                  I25
. I /0 2 )8 6  T t  l1O                        7 7OsC  Kr,b,.                85U
GEORGET cIV 7    /K-  - 5                                                                          5       g iKn   To&d-   6*     71
'/ |t | f \ \ 5 ff ~~~~U{U8 l '
0              10      20         30                         1    A                                                                                          b                  152
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                   t4 K-rn727o45
o                 to                2 22                                                                                                          6.- g'  5  t j6IS"5iiSi, 5Ei1i43 14
X~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ->i                                      l       \2                                            0S.nd- Kel                     584
n                            X       T         l    /                                              25 Ba~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pk,lBt  825
19 Pe-q T-qp          ~~1633
23 S,55k,                      263
1                                     ~~~~~~~~~~24 5a», R-t           43
26 J..11                       1 12
28 51Tuba                      41
5            /\  2!7                                          tiR    A    K   l, tamcuno9ParS  237
2                  \                                                       33 PadI-arac                   439
\_, \nalip,e*adh, i9~ VVma na7kaaaS  6                                   34 Pa-arsGwq-,                 350
die  ~        aS7S15i151535 S-ilia M--i'7                                                                                                                                 83
_ Thda,'aash s hP  Pai, ep ad h h on   d a;m aotapaamlnhr w  T dhr omwn,na                         i                 a                                                  36   ah                         82 52
a11.lindInoh,ndu,11on,15gala m 1p do e-nrr m  i6a Pwt ot d   Wo=d sI s111                          .                 To T7d7,2g                                         37 K-mzungEwa                   67
p arlrfates Sni,1d7menta7tr6legalazata  Soavd/eeo                                         '                jd                                                  38 Al, 4611                    232
t'otstance or l uCh toundent t                                               X      G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 d                                                0  



