Document of
The World Bank  ;.
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3981a-MA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 15, 1982
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ringgit (M$)
Calendar 1981                        September 1982
US$1.00 = M$2.30                     US$1.00 = 2.36
M$1.00 = US$0.435                    M$1.00 = 0.424
(Rate used in appraisal)
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)               =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 mile
1 meter (m)                  =  3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq m)        =  10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (cu m)         =  35.31 cubic feet
= 1.308 cubic yards
1 kilogram (kg)              =  2.2 p unds
1 ton                        =  1,000 kgs
= 2,205 pounds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BPM      =  Bank Pertanian Malaysia - Agricultural Bank of Malaysia
CCL      =  Critical Consumption Level
DID      =  Drainage and Trrigation Department
DOA      =  Department of Agriculture
DOF      =  Department of Fisheries
DLM      =  Department of Lands and Mines
dusun    =  backyard fruit orchard
EPU       =  Economic Planning Unit (Federal)
ERR      =  Economic Rate of Return
FAMA     =  Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority
FDC      =  Farmers Development Center
FOA      =  Farmers Organization Authority
GPC      =  Group Processing Center
ICB      =  International Competitive Bidding
KGT      =  Kompleks Geraktani - Agricultural Operations Complex
LCB      =  Local Competitive Bidding
LPN      =  Lembaga Padi dan Beras Negara - National Padi and Rice Authority
MARDI    =  Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
MLRD      =  Ministry of Lands and Regional Development
MOA       =  Ministry of Agriculture
NPV      =  Net Present Value
O&M      =  Operation and Maintenance
Pob      =  Project Director
RATC     =  Rural Agricultural Training Center
RISDA    =  Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
BPWD     =  State Public Works Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND ... .. .1
The Agricultural Sector  . ...... .................. .              1
Government Strategies for Agricultural Development . . . .          2
Rubber Development ..                                               3
Irrigation Development           ..                                 4
Project Formulation ..                                              5
II.    THE PROJECT AREA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          6
Location..                                                          6
Climate and Hydrology....                                           6
Topography and Soils               . . . . .   .     .      .       7
Population and Land Use  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          8
Farm Size and Land Tenure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          8
Existing Infrastructure            ...                   .10
Rubber Development....                 . . . . . . . . .         10
Irrigation and Drainage Works. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
Roads  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  12
Fisheries   .. ..12
Agricultural Extension ..   . . . .         .    .     .12
Farmers Organization Authority . . . . . .          . .12
Agricultural Research         .. ..13
Marketing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
III.   THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Project Description    ..13
Smallholder Rubber Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Infrastructure Development    ..16
Irrigation Works   ..16
Farm Roads .17
Access Road Development.                                           17
Fruit Development. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Fisheries Development   ..18
This report is based on the findings of appraisal missions in October 1981
and January/February 1982 consisting of Messrs. K. Templeton, A. Alamin, R.
Dy, H. Matheson and Ms. E. Zuckerman.  Mr. C. Downing led the pre-appraisal
mission.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
Agricultural Su-pport Services .  .          . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Consultant Services and Studies   . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Training .          .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Agriculture Service Installations .     .    . . . . . . . .    22
Vehicles and Equipment  ...  .        .  .  .  .    .....  .  .    .    22
Status of Engineering .         .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Implementation Schedule ...  .        .  .  .  .    .....  .  .    .    23
Cost Estimate ...  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .    .    24
Financing ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .....  .  .  .   .    24
Procurement ....  .        .  .  .  .  .    . . . .   .  .    . ....   .    24
Disbursements . . . . . . . ............... .      ...  .       .    27
Accounts and Audits ...  .       .  .    . .....  .  .  .  .  .   .    28
Environmental Effects ...  .       .  .  .  .    .. ....  .  .    .    28
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
Project Organization and Coordination .  . . . . . . . .    28
Agency Responsibilities ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..........    30
RISDA . . . . .       .....  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .. . .30
DIT)    .   . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  33
SPWD  . . . . . . . . . . ..   .  . . . . .                    33
DOA ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ........ . .    .    33
DOF ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..........  34
FOA ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .......... .    35
MARDI . .    ...              ..  . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
FAMA  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..........  35
DLM ....  .       .  .  .    . . . . . . . . .. .  .  .    ......  36
BPM ....  .       .  .  .  .  .    . . . ....   .  ..  .    .....  .    36
LPN..                       ......... . 36
Extension Services  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..........  36
Staffing .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37
Operation and Maintenance          .    .    . . . . . . . . . . . . .    37
Monitoring and Evaluation .  . . . . .  . . .  . . . . . .    37
V.     AGRICULTIJRAL PRODUCTION        ... .............                 38
Rubber .          .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
Padi  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .    .    42
Fruits  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    44
Fish    ..44



-iii -
Page No.
VI.  MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND PROJECT
CHARGES ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   46
Market Prospects  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   46
Rubber  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   46
Rice  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  47
Fruits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  47
Fish  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  47
Prices.. ..............  48
Rubber  .    .   .  .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .  .    .   .   .   .  .  .    .  .   .  .   .  .  48
Rice..  ............ 49
Fruits and Fish.. ............  49
Farmgate Fertilizers  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  50
Farm Incomes.. ..............  50
Project Charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  51
VII.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . .  52
VIII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . .   56
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
2.1   Land Use in Kedah  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
3.1   Project Cost Estimate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
3.2   Schedule of Works and Goods Packages . . . . . . . . . . .  27
5.1   Phasing of Rubber Replanting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
5.2   Rubber Areas for Time-slice Financing  . . . . . . . . . .  39
5.3   Summary of Rubber Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
5.4   Rubber Fertilizer Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
5.5   Padi Cropping Pattern, Yield and Production  . . . . . . .  43
5.6   Dusun Area, Fruit Yields and Production  . . . . . . . . .  44
5.7   Phasing of Freshwater Fishpond Development . . . . . . . .  45
5.8   Fishpond Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
6.1   Summary Farm Budgets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  51
7.1   Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis  . . . .  54
ANNEXES
1. Cost Estimates, Buildings, Equipment and
Vehicles, Consultant Services and Studies,
Schedules of Expenditures, Allocation of Loan
Proceeds, Schedule of Disbursements
2. Farm Model Budgets, Rent and Cost Recovery Indices



- iv -
ANNEXES (Continued)
3.   Economic Analysis
4.   Schedule of Early Events
5.   Related Documents and Data Available in the
Project File
LIST OF FIGURES
3.1 Implementation Schedule
4.1 Project Organization
5.1 Proposed Cropping Schedules
MAP
IBRD 16423



MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
I. BACKGROUND
The Agricultural Sector
1.01      The agricultural sector plays an important role in the economy of
Malaysia, though its relative importance is declining as the country proceeds
toward industrialization. The sector accounts for about 24% of GDP, 40% of
export earnings, and 41% of employment. Real GDP in agriculture grew at an
average of 4.3% p.a. in the 1970s. Based on past investments in tree crops
and new land development, and continuing public sector investments, growth is
likely to be sustained at 3.5% p.a. for the next decade. Agricultural
production has always been heavily export-oriented; however, the composition
of primary exports has changed significantly in the last decade due to the
Government's diversification policy. Rubber continues to be the single
largest export earner, but its share of total exports has dropped from 33%
in 1970 to 17% in 1980 as earnings from palm oil and wood products have
increased. Malaysia is the world's largest producer and exporter of both
rubber and palm oil, supplying about 45% of the world's natural rubber and
well over 50% of palm oil in 1980. The agricultural sector's share of total
employment has gradually declined from 50% in 1970 to 41% in 1980. The
Government expects industry and services to absorb an increasingly larger
proportion of the total labor force in the next decade. The continued
growth in terms of volume and prices in agriculture, the expansion of
manufactured exports, and the development of Malaysia's oil reserves have
enabled the country to maintain a healthy trade surplus, estimated at about
US$1.9 billion p.a. during the Third Malaysia Plan, 1976-1980. However,
for 1981, steep declines in commodity prices led to a trade deficit of
US$384 million and a current account deficit of about US$2.5 billion, some
11% of the GNP.
1.02      Malaysian agriculture has a strong comparative advantage in tree
crops which accounts for the dominance of rubber and oil palm in the pattern
of land use, output and exports. Peninsular Malaysia has about 3.5 million
ha or 25% of its area under cultivation, of which about 2.7 million ha or
80% is in two crops - rubber with about 1.7 million ha and oil palm with
about 1.0 million ha. The other major crops are padi, about 340,000 ha, of
which some 60% is double-cropped, and coconut, with about 250,000 ha. The
entire padi area and about two-thirds of the treecrop area are in small
holdings, although much of the latter land is in centrally-managed settle-
ment schemes.
1.03      During the period 1970-1980, output of rice increased by 33%,
primarily due to improved and expanded irrigation facilities. Most of these



gains were achieved by mid-decade, however. The Government has formulated
three basic objectives for rice: (a) to increase the incomes of rice
farmers; (b) to maintain a high degree of self-sufficiency in rice
production; and (c) to provide reasonably priced rice to consumers.
1.04      Notwithstanding the impressive performance of the Malaysian econ-
omy, in 1980 some 29% of the population had incomes below the official abso-
lute poverty line currently about US$300 per capita per annum. Two thirds
of these were in agricultural households, where the incidence of absolute
poverty was about 46%. The largest poverty group in Malaysia is rubber
smallholders. Despite significant yield increases over the past two
decades, their incomes in real terms have hardly improved. In 1980, about
41% of the 426,000 smallholders were in poverty. Three factors are pri-
marily responsible for this /1: the long run decline in the real price of
rubber; the likelihood that output gains are concentrated among larger
smallholdings; and the small size of the majority of rubber smallholdings.
Among rice farmers an even higher proportion, about 55% of the 151,000
households, have family incomes below the absolute poverty line, the two
main factors responsible being small size of holdings and low productiv-
ity /1; low production due to small farm size could in many cases be
counteracted by double cropping and so raise the income above the poverty
level.
Government Strategies for Agricultural Development
1.05      Having officially adopted in 1970 the objective of poverty eradi-
cation, the Government has employed two basic agricultural strategies. The
first is development of new land to transfer labor from low productivity
rural occupations to managed agricultural employment of higher productivity.
The second has been in situ development, including projects and programs
aimed directly at increasing smallholder productivity. Implementation of
these strategies, aided by strong performance in the secondary and tertiary
sectors, has contributed to a significant decline in the incidence of pov-
erty in agriculture from 68% in 1970 to 46% in 1980.  Strong industrial
growth during this period provided enough employment outside agriculture to
absorb two-thirds of the increase in the rural labor force. Large scale
irrigation projects, such as Muda and Kemubu, came into production in the
early 1970s and provided increases in rice productivity that significantly
changed the income position of 73,000 smallholders (para. 1.11).  They
allowed the country to reduce its imports from 22% of consumption require-
ments in 1970, to about 11% in 1980. Government agencies, such as the
Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA), carried out land development
projects opening up over 1.1 million ha of new lands, mostly for treecrops,
and resettled about 250,000 rural families.
/1 See Bank Report on Rural Poverty, Report No. 2685-MA, December 18, 1980.



1.06      Aside from a wide range of infrastructure construction, research,
extension, and marketing activities, the Government has instituted a number of
financial policies to provide increased smallholder agricultural incentives
and incomes, including an interest-free smallholder credit program for poverty
alleviation projects. Other production and poverty oriented measures include
reduction in the rubber export tax, increase in padi price support, provision
of free fertilizers and subsidies on various crops, livestock and fishponds.
Ongoing Bank sector work is reviewing the impact of the various agricultural
subsidies in a sector-wide context.
Rubber Development
1.07      The main agencies involved in the smallholder rubber industry are:
the Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA), the Federal
Land Development Authority (FELDA), the Federal Land Consolidation and
Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA), the Malaysian Rubber Development Corpor-
ation (MARDFC), the various state land development agencies, and the Rubber
Research Institute of Malaysia (RRIM). In 1953 the Rubber Industry
Replanting Board was organized to administer for estates and smallholdings
the replanting funds generated by a cess on rubber exports first levied
in 1951 (para. 3.03). RISDA, established in 1973, took over the functions
of the Replanting Board and the Smallholders' Advisory Service of the RRIM.
1.08      Smallholdings account for about 1.2 million ha or 70% of the total
1.7 million ha of land planted to rubber in Peninsular Malaysia. About
0.9 million ha are owned by 375,000 individual smallholders in holdings with
an average area of 2.4 ha. A further 0.3 million ha are owned by smallholders
whose plots are part of government-sponsored land-development schemes
organized within the past 25 years, including: (a) 170,000 ha in FELDA land
development schemes; (b) 50,000 ha in block new planting schemes administered
by State governments or State statutory authorities; and (c) 50,000 ha in
fringe-area new plantings mostly developed by FELCRA under its fringe
alienation schemes.
1.09      Bank assistance for smallholder rubber development began with a
program of six FELDA projects involving more than 25,000 settler families on
about 117,000 ha of land devoted to oil palm, rubber and cocoa. The first
three projects provided for the development and settlement of about 40,000
ha, of which 16,000 were in rubber, in the Jengka Triangle region of Pahang
State. Project Performance Audit Reports for Jengka I and II (Reports No.
2122 and 3021) noted the success of the projects in terms of improved
incomes and living conditions of the settlers and the build-up of FELDA's
technical capability. The third and last stage of the Jengka Triangle
project was completed in 1981. Two more projects, with a greater emphasis on
oil palm, the Johore Land Settlement (Loan 967-MA), and Keratong Land
Settlement (Loan 1044-MA), are proceeding successfully and are expected to be



- 4 -
completed by end-1983. The FELDA VI Project (Loan 1590-MA), involving
development of 21,000 ha of rubber, 8,000 ha of oil palm, and 800 ha of
cocoa, is under implementation.   Bank assistance for land development is
now focussed on expanding the implementation capacity of the Government's
land rehabilitation agency FELCRA. Two loans were approved in 1981 with
FELCRA as the main implementing agency, the Trans-Perak Area Development
Project (para. 1.12) and the FELCRA I Project (Loan 2013-MA). The Bank is
also assisting a state land development agency to improve and complete the
development of about 20,000 ha of rubber in 26 existing schemes in the state
of Kelantan (Loan 1899-MA).
Irrigation Development
1.10      Irrigation development in Malaysia is devoted almost entirely to
rice production. The Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID), established
in 1932, is responsible for land improvement and water resources development,
particularly for rice.   Until 1960, irrigation schemes were designed for
single crop rice production during the wet season, providing water to
supplement rainfall during short periods of drought. In the early 1960s,
irrigation was expanded as part of the massive rural development program
after independence, and DID began emphasizing double cropped padi cultivation
by building storage dams and pumping stations and upgrading distribution
systems. DID has provided irrigation to practically all major rice produc-
ing areas, and 70% of Malaysia's (including Sabah and Sarawak) 420,000 ha of
padi land now has some form of irrigation and about 50% is capable of double
cropping. In addition, DID has constructed drainage schemes on some 425,000
ha of land devoted to treecrops.
1.11      The Bank has participated in irrigation development in Malaysia
since 1965 when it financed the Muda Irrigation Project (Loan 434-MA),
followed in 1967 by the Kemubu Irrigation Project (Loan 500-MA). Together,
these projects covered nearly 120,000 ha, or about 35% of the padi land
in Peninsular Malaysia, and accommodate some 73,000 farm families. Accord-
ing to the Project Performance Audit Report (Report No. 1295), they were
successful projects which helped to reduce rice imports from 42% of national
requirements in 1967 to 17% in 1974, and resulted in increases of 75-100% in
the incomes of project beneficiaries. Design of field distribution and
drainage systems, based on standards prevailing in East Asia in the 1960s,
involved widely spaced secondary canals and field-to-field irrigation and
drainage. At that time, there was neither the experience in design and
construction of more intensive modes of on-farm development, nor widespread
use of high yielding, short-term padi varieties which depend on more precise
water control at the field level for optimum performance. Higher standards
of on-farm development are now being initiated in the Muda II Project (Loan
1717-MA), on 25,000 ha.



- 5 -
1.12      In early 1981, the Bank approved two land development-cum-settle-
ment projects. The Rompin-Endau Area Development Project (Loan 1957-MA)
would involve land clearing and construction of a new irrigation and
drainage system for about 11,400 ha of padi land. The Trans-Perak Area
Development Project (Loan 1960-MA) would provide for improvement of about
3,700 ha of padi land, development of about 6,400 ha of new padi land and
about 8,400 ha of treecrops. Five other Bank-financed projects, which will
improve, expand and intensify irrigation over 116,000 ha of padi land and
drainage over 212,000 ha of tree crops, are under implementation. These
projects include, in addition to irrigation and drainage infrastructure,
improved agricultural support services such as credit, extension, processing
and marketing.
Project Formulation
1.13      Kedah, in the northwest of Peninsular Malaysia, is one of the
poorest states in Malaysia. Surveys in 1976 showed that about 55% of its
219,000 households were in poverty. Since the early 1970s income dispari-
ties between the coastal Muda area (with about 60,000 farm families) and the
present project areas (with about 87,000 families) have widened with the
completion of the Bank-financed Muda Irrigation Project (Loan 434-MA) which
brought double cropping to the main 'rice bowl' of Malaysia. In 1978, the
Government commissioned a study by a team of consultants, Economic
Consultants Limited (U.K.) in association with Shankland Cox Partnership
(U.K.) and other consultants. The study, covering all economic sectors, was
to guide the medium and long-term development planning for Kedah and the
adjacent state of Perlis.
1.14      The identification brief for this project, which aims to increase
agricultural production and incomes of the smallholders outside the Muda
area, was prepared in 1979 by the .Kedah State Economic Planning Unit with
advisory assistance from the UNDP-financed Bank-executed State and Rural
Development Project. Proposals were based on the agricultural and
infrastructure development strategy of the Kedah-Perlis Development study as
amended and approved by the State. In early 1981, Jurutera Konsultant
(Malaysia) in association with the MacDonald and Booker consulting firms
(U.K.) completed a feasibility study on the "Intensification of Irrigated
Agriculture in Kedah and Perlis," which provided the main input for the
irrigation component of the project.
1.15      Under the Fourth Malaysia Plan, 1981-85, the Government in its
quest to alleviate rural poverty, has allocated some US$390 million, or about
10% of the agriculture development budget, for multi-component agricultural
development projects. The multi-component concept emphasizes improved crop
productivity through intensified land use and better agricultural support
services. Overall project management and integration of component programs
are vested in a project director who carries sufficient authority to
interact with officials of the line agencies concerned. The principal
problem of on-going multi-component projects such as Trans-Perak, Rompin-



- 6 -
Endau and North-West Selangor (Loan 1522-MA), has been slow implementation
attributed in large part to long delays in the appointment of their project
directors. In the most recent project of the series, Malacca (Loan 2147-MA),
however, the post was filled before loan negotiations. For Kedah Valleys,
the appointment had already been made before project appraisal and this early
action is expected to promote a smoother and more timely implementation of
works. The government's objective in formulating the present project was to
meet effectively the diverse development needs of Kedah farmers and to redress
intra-state income imbalances.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      The State of Kedah (Map IBRD 16423) with an area of about 9,490
sq. km, is in the northwest of Peninsular Malaysia and includes the islands
of Langkawi off its coast. It is bounded in the north by the State of
Perlis, by Thailand in the north and west, and by the States of Penang and
Perak from the southwest to the southeast. The State capital, Alor Setar
(population 150,000), is located in the coastal alluvial plain of the Muda
irrigation scheme, the major padi producing area in the country.  In the
south of the State, the main towns of Sungai Petani and Kulim are developing
rapidly as industrial centers.  The road connecting Alor Setar to the Thai
border in the north and to Sungai Petani and the south is part of the
north-south federal highway, but has not yet been upgraded to a multi-lane
highway. Surfaced roads link Alor Setar and Sungai Petani with the rest of
the State in a network which is generally good except in the more broken
terrain of the inland districts. Alor Setar has air connections with Penang,
Kota Baru, Ipoh and Kuala Lumpur. Regular ferry services operate between the
mainland and Langkawi, 40 km from the coast.
2.02      The project area referred to as the Kedah Valleys region covers
all the State except for the coastal area under the Muda irrigation scheme.
It has an estimated area of about 8,400 sq km, and includes the entire
districts of Padang Terap, Sik, Baling, Kulim, Bandar Baru and Langkawi,
and those parts of Kubang Pasu, Kota Setar, Pendang, Kuala Muda and Yan
districts outside the Muda area.
Climate and Hydrology
2.03      The climate of the state is tropical and influenced by the monsoons
which bring heavy rains during two periods of the year, in April/May and
October/November, with rainfall ranging from 250 to 500 mm in the wettest
month. Very dry conditions occur in the intermonsoonal period of January/
February with monthly rainfall averaging less than 100 mm. Annual rainfall,
heaviest in the southern part of the State (about 3,500 mm) and diminishing
northwards to about 2,500 mm, is more evenly distributed through the year in
the south while the north suffers the more severe drought periods. This
pattern is reflected in the annual leaf fall period (wintering) of rubber
trees which usually is almost total in the north and brings tapping of the
trees to a halt for several weeks but is only partial and brief in the



- 7 -
south. Mean annual temperatures range narrowly from 26.90 C to 280 C and
the mean annual evaporation is about 1,500 mm.  Though the climate is well
ciii t-p for rubber and padi production, the long dry season is unfavorable for
off season crops in the padi areas, necessitating the use of irrigatiuti.
2.04       The main rivers in mainland Kedah are the Kulim, Muda and Padang
Terap, all of which have significant upland catchments. Their hydrological
cycles show very high flow peaks in November and very low flows in the dry
season. Few gauging stations have been established on the main rivers and
available flow records span periods averaging about 10 years. Mean flows of
the three main rivers are 1,539 (Kulim), 723 (Muda) and 582 (Padang Terap) cu
m/sec. Flow records are not available for small streams such as are often
intercepted by farmers with temporary brush dams to divert run-off into padi
fields. Generally the project areas are well drained by natural channels
supplemented by drains in some agricultural schemes. Coastal areas however
are poorly drained and were subject to seawater intrusion before the
construction of coastal bunds, tidal control gates and drainage facilities.
Preliminary results of a current nationwide hydrological study indicate that
groundwater prospects in the project area are not very promising and that
aquifers are limited in capacity and extent. Depths to water table in the
valleys rarely exceed 10 meters and are generally in the range of 1 to 5 m.
Topography and Soils
2.05      Topography.  The terrain of the Kedah Valleys region is mainly
flat in the vicinity of the Muda area (0-50 m elevation), rolling in the
hinterland (50-200 m), rising to low mountain ranges (200-500 m) near the
eastern border area with Thailand. The north-south mountains form two main
catchment systems, that of the Kedah river in the northern half of the State
and the larger Muda river in Central region.
2.06       Soils.  There are three main groups of soils in the project area,
the alluvial soils, the sedentary soils and the lithosols. The alluvials may
be further divided into marine and riverine sediments and there are some
organic muck and peat soils in the low lying areas. The marine alluvia are
predominantly clay, have substantial nutrient reserves and are poorly drained
while the riverine alluvia have less clay, less nutrient reserves but are
more free draining. These soils constitute the padi-growing areas. The
sedentary soils which are away from the coastal plain and valley bottoms are
strongly influenced in their nature by the parent material and topography.
Where derived from granite on gentle slopes they are often deep and among the
best soils in the State but where quartz and conglomerates are in the parent
material, poorer sandy and gravelly type soils result. The sedentary soils
are utilized for the extensive rubber growing areas. The lithosols occur
mostly on the steep inland slopes and are of little agricultural importance.
On Langkawi the lowland soils range from coarse sandy to sandy clay loams
which, coupled with the scarcity of water there, does not make the area well
suited for padi cultivation.



-8-
Population and Land Use
2.07       Population.  In 1980 the population of Kedah State totalled 1.1 mil-
lion, of which about 0.5 million (an estimated 87,000 farm families) lived in
the project area. The population density averages about 115 persons per sq
km, and the project area is characterized by a generally dispersed population
but with pockets of relatively high population pressure and scarcity of land
for new development. While migration from Kedah to other states has been
small, in the last decade migration (particularly of young people) has
increased within the State from rural areas to the main towns.  Thus the
farming areas have an increasingly aging population which is contributing to
labor shortages, low productivity, reduced receptiveness to technological
change and persistent poverty. Overall some 85% of the State's population
live in the rural areas and more than 70% are engaged in agricultural
employment. In contrast to the relative prosperity of the Muda area (average
US$450 per capita annual income /1), there is a high incidence of poverty in
the Kedah Valleys region.  It is estimated that about 95% of the project
beneficiaries have an annual income below the absolute poverty line, estimated
at US$300 per capita in 1980.
2.08       Land Use.  About 459,000 ha or 48% of the total land area in Kedah
is utilized for agriculture (Table 2.1). Land use is dominated by rubber and
padi which together account for about 84% of the agricultural area. Mixed
horticulture including fruits (known in Malay as dusun) is the only other
substantial crop category (about 8%). The nonagricultural land is mostly
under natural forest growing on steep land.
2.09       In the project areas, smallholdings are estimated to cover about
225,000 ha of which approximately 73% (165,000 ha) is planted with rubber,
18% (40,000 ha) with padi and the remaining 9% (20,000 ha) with other crops,
mainly dusun. About 20% of the smallholder rubber is classified as senile,
of very low yield or out of production, and contributing significantly to
the high incidence of poverty among rubber smallholders. About 65,000 ha of
smallholder rubber has been replanted under the grant assistance scheme from
1953 to 1981 and a further 7,000 ha was converted from rubber to other
crops, mainly fruit trees and oil palm.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.10       Farm Size.  Data of the 1974 Land Use Survey indicate that the
average size of smallholder farms in the project area is about 2.0 ha.
Holdings are typically divided into several individual plots which may be
/1  In the national context even Muda Farmers are not prosperous.  The
national per capita income was about US$1,600 in 1980.



-9-
Table 2.1: LAND USE IN KEDAH/a
Land Use                  Area           Distribution (%)
(ha)        Agriculture       Total
Agriculture
Rubber                 245,400          53.5
Padi /b                139,200          30.3
Mixed horticulture      37,800           8.2
Sugarcane                5,300           1.2
Oil palm                 4,900            1.1
Coconut                  2,500           0.5
Other crops              5,700            1.2
Grassland               18,200           4.0
Subtotal             459,000         100.0            48.4
Nonagriculture
Forest                 384,000          78.4
Scrub                   49,000          10.0
Swamp                   19,000           3.9
Other                   38,000           7.7
100.0
Subtotal             490,000                          51.6
Total              949,000                         100.0
/a Estimated end-1977 situation based on 1974 Land Use Surveys.
/b About 80,000 ha in the Muda area.
widely dispersed. Padi areas are small, averaging about 0.6 ha; rubber
holdings average about 2.5 ha but with 70% less than 2.0 ha; and dusun hold-
ings are about 0.2 ha. About half the farms have both rubber and padi plots
and the remaining half are about equally divided between sole rubber and
sole padi. Nearly all holdings have a small dusun area usually near the
owner's home. Given the generally uneconomic size of both padi and rubber
holdings, most families live in poverty unless other sources of income are
available. To a limited extent some supplementary income is derived from
livestock rearing, especially cattle. Animals graze along roadsides, on
communal unimproved grassland areas, and in padi fields during fallow
periods. The main opportunity for additional income however is through
temporary employment on estates as casual labor and as rubber tappers.
In-shore fishing is an important source of income for many Langkawi farmers.



- 10 -
2.11      Land Tenure.  The majority of smallholders are owner-operators.
Tenancy arrangements for share-cropping of padi land are normally between
close relatives, and such kinship ties give tenants a reasonable degree of
security of tenure. However traditionally complicated land ownership
patterns through inheritance of land from both sides of a family, can lead,
especially in rubber lands, to problems in decision-making in matters of
replanting and management of resources, to the detriment of farm income.  It
has been estimated that 30-40,000 ha of rubber is illegally planted on
untitled lands largely because of the uneconomic size of existing holdings.
Such rubber areas are not eligible for the government replanting grant. The
task of overcoming these land titleship problems is complex involving the
processing of applications, the initiation of surveys and the payment of land
premiums. To accelerate processing and title issue, close cooperation is
being established between the Government rubber replanting agency (RISDA) and
the district land offices in order to identify priority working areas
(para. 4.12); and a land premium credit scheme is also proposed for
farmers who are unable to meet the charges involved.
Existing Infrastructure
2.12      Rubber Development.  RISDA maintains offices in ten of the State's
eleven districts to administer the government-assisted rubber replanting
program (paras. 3.03, 4.06). In seven of these district centers RISDA has its
own modern office buildings. Rented accommodation serves two other districts
(Bandar Baru and Sik) but a building site is already possessed at one of these
(Sik). RISDA State Offices in Alor Setar occupy rented space but the agency
has its own 8-storey headquarters complex in an advanced stage of construc-
tion. By 1981 RISDA had established 20 mini estates in Kedah (para. 2.13b)
covering some 1,600 ha and had organized about 100 Group Replantings
(para. 2.13c) on about 1,860 ha. For the production of rubber planting
materials RISDA currently has contract arrangements with about 13 private,
mostly small nurseries in scattered locations and totalling some 47 ha of
area. RISDA owns a nursery site of 7 ha at Gurun. As part of its program to
upgrade the quality of smallholder rubber, RISDA had constructed up to the
end of 1981 about 400 Group Processing Centers (GPC), most of them also
including a storage room and many of them a community meeting hall for farmer
extension and family training activities. A few of the GPCs have smokehouse
facilities.
2.13      RISDA's operation of the grant assistance program for rubber
replanting involves three categories of rubber growing units:
(a)  the individual holdings:  in which the farm owner, on receipt of a
replanting grant approval from RISDA, is alone responsible for
organizing and carrying out the replanting work and the subsequent
maintenance of the new trees through to tapping maturity;



- 1.1 -
(b)  the mini-estates:  which are formed from the amalgamation of
individually titled and contiguous areas of old rubber to form a
block of not less than about 40 ha but currently averaging nearly
100 ha in size. The smallholder owners of the individual lots
lease their land titles to RISDA for the benefits of larger scale
replanting and field infrastructure development and long-term field
maintenance and management of their holdings into the production
years, at higher standards than the individual owners could
normially attain. Under present policy the leases which are taken up
just before land clearing, will continue until such time as RISDA
recovers from production income, over about the first 15 years of
tapping, field development costs additional to normal smallholder
replanting costs not covered by the replanting grant. These costs
include installation of field infrastructure such as onr-farm roads,
drainage, terraces and perimeter fencing but exclude RISDA
management costs. There after the leased lands revert to owner
titleship and management. Throughout the lease period, RISDA offers
the owners employment on the mini-estate at prevailing daily rate
wages. Further, up to early 1982, RISDA had been paying mini-
estate owners a land rental of M$35/ha/month. However these
payments have now been stopped for the full period when owners
could benefit from the Family Income Maintenance Loan Scheme
(see para. 4.08) At the time when mini-estates come into
production, RISDA may reconsider restoration of land rental
payments.
(c) group replanting programs: in which small individually titled
and contiguous areas of old rubber are freely amalgamated by their
owners under RISDA direction into units of up to about 30 ha for
the purpose of achieving the economies of larger scale replanting
and the benefits of a higher standard of technology input. RISDA
organizes the replanting contracts and then closely supervises
owners maintenance work during the next two years. RISDA has no
direct financial participation in the Group Program which has been
designed to encourage smaller farmers into replanting.
2.14      Irrigation and Drainage Works.  Over the past five decades DID
(para. 4.13) has constructed 82 small schemes in the project area serving a
total padi area of about 21,000 ha of which about 14,000 ha may have a dry
season crop. Over the years their structures have deteriorated resulting in
low efficiencies, inadequate canal commands and poor water management. Flow
records are not kept even where there are operating guages. The field drain-
age network is equally deficient and inundations during heavy rain are common.
The recent irrigation practice relies on field-to-field flooding often over
long distances but peak water demands are often unfulfilled due to excessive
standing water at the upstream reaches of the system and uncoordinated
cropping schedules. Existing canals and drains which provide canalization and
drainage intensities of about 30 m/ha and 6 m/ha respectively are all below
standards in capacity and density. Rehabilitation of 26 of the schemes is
being undertaken by the National Small Scale Irrigation Project (Loan 1444-MA)
and work on a further 38 schemes is proposed for this project. Five of the
schemes use pumping to serve some 3,700 ha, the remainder are gravity systems
with an average size of about 155 ha. The remainder will be improved under
the government's regular program.



- 12 -
2.15      Roads.  While the State of Kedah has a good system of main and
rural roads, access roads to agricultural areas including farmers' settle-
ments and farm roads within padi fields and rubber plantations are
frequently inadequate. Existing access roads are generally narrow tracks
without surfacing and, with no drainage and few bridges, are often unusable
after heavy rains.
2.16      Fisheries.  Under a government subsidy program administered by the
Department of Fisheries (DOF) (para. 4.20), farmers in the State have devel-
oped since 1976 about 420 freshwater fishponds totalling in area some 120
ha, about 8 ha of brackish water fishponds and about 70 units of fish cages.
DOF established their Inland Fisheries Training Center for freshwater aqua-
culture at Jitra in 1974; it consists of 7.3 ha of ponds, breeding tanks and
support laboratory facilities. It is currently distributing about one
million fish fry to farmers annually. This Center also provides training
courses to about 100 farmers/year. At Ban Merbok along the lower reaches of
the Muda river, the DOF has constructed 18 brackish water ponds totalling
13.8 ha along with water control gates on the river as the first stage in
the development of its Brackish Water Aquaculture Center. A nearby site has
been acquired for the building complex. At Kuala Muda, a new freshwater
prawn hatchery capable of producing one million seed/year, should be in
operation before mid-1982.
2.17      Agricultural Extension.  The Department of Agriculture (DOA)
(para. 4.15) which is responsible for agricultural extension and development
programs for smallholder crops other than rubber, oil palm, and tobacco, has
farmer training facilities at Telok Cengai near Alor Setar and Carok Padang
in Sik district. Present annual intake of trainees is about 650 for short
and medium-term courses. Telok Cengai agricultural station is also the
headquarters for soil survey and analysis, crop protection and farm mechan-
ization services. The facilities consist of a laboratory for routine
analyses of soil, water and leaf samples, a laboratory for identification
and counting of insect trap samples, a machinery workshop, offices, garages
and stores. Nursery facilities extending to about 10 ha and equipped with a
sprinkler irrigation system and plant sheds are located at Batu Seketol in
Sik district for the production of budgrafted fruit trees and other planting
materials. Current output is about 25,000 fruit trees per year, mainly
rambutan, mango, durian, jackfruit and pomelo which are for distribution
under subsidy programs.
2.18      Farmers Organization Authority (FOA).  The FOA (para. 4.20) which
provides services to farmers has also established 12 Farmer Development
Centers (FDC) of which two are in Langkawi and has a fleet of 40 tractors, 20
mobile pumps, six trucks and four service vehicles, all of which together
with the private sector equipment operators, will serve the agricultural
areas in the project. Under a loan from the Asian Development Bank, Kedah
FOA will receive a further 100 tractors, 60 trucks, four service vehicles,
four farm mechanization service centers and four new FDC facilities.



- 13 -
2.19      Agricultural Research.  In 1982 the Malaysian Agricultural Research
and Development Institute (MARDI) (para. 4.21) opened a new research complex
of offices and laboratories on a 3.6 ha site at Telok Cengai near Alor Setar.
About 2 ha of that station provides for field plots, mainly in rice research.
A small station in the project area at Gajah Mati, intended for work on
various types of cash crops is currently working almost solely with sugar
cane research. Both stations will devote increasing effort to the Kedah
Valleys region during the project. In addition, just south of Kedah in the
northern part of Penang State, MARDI has its National Rice Breeding and
Research Station of 17 ha at Bumbong Lima and the nearby Northern Region
Research Station of 148 ha at Bertam for research on irrigation systems and
on field crops. Both stations are closely concerned with Kedah's
agricultural development needs and both will give increasing attention to
farm production problems in the project area. Research backup for fruit and
freshwater fish production programs will be available from MARDI's national
fruit and fish research facilities in Selangor and Malacca respectively while
problems of rubber production are the concern of the Rubber Research
Institute of Malaysia.
2.20      Marketing.  Much farmers' produce is marketed through well-
established private trader chains ramifying the State and possessing strong
commercial links to large urban consumer markets in various other parts of the
country. These traders traditionally have also been a major source of farmer
credit. Institutional credit is increasingly available through the Malaysian
Agricultural Bank (BPM) (para. 4.24). The Federal Agricultural Marketing
Authority (FAMA) (para. 4.25) has established four agricultural marketing and
processing centers in the State to assist farmers obtain better returns on
their produce. These centers provide processing equipment, drying floors,
storage rooms and produce display stalls as well as produce transportation
facilities.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The project would provide for the replanting of old rubber areas,
construction and improvements of irrigation works and of farm and access
roads, development of fruit and fish production, strengthening of farmer
training and other agricultural support services, and consultant services
for agricultural studies, design and construction supervision. About 20,500
smallholder families would benefit. The main features of the project are:
(a)  Smallholder rubber development, involving the replanting with
improved high yielding materials of about 15,100 ha of old, low
yielding rubber including some 4,600 ha in mini estates
(para. 2.13b), maintenance up to maturity of about 13,200 ha of
rubber replanted in the years 1977-82; establishment of a central
RISDA nursery of about 140 ha for rubber planting materials, the



- 14 -
construction and equipping of about 240 group processing centers and
the establishment of two RISDA smokehouses for smallholder rubber
(paras. 3.03-3.06);
(b)  Irrigation development, including improvement of about 38 irrigation
schemes serving about 8,850 ha of padi lands, through rehabilitation
and construction of about 610 km of canals and field drains and the
replacement of five pumping installations; and the upgrading and
construction of about 380 km of farm roads in padi areas (paras.
3.07-3.10);
(c)  Access road development of about 370 km of access roads to rubber
mini-estates and to farmers' settlements participating in the fruit
tree rehabilitation program (paras. 3.11-3.12);
(d)  Fruit development, by the rehabilitation of about 2000 ha of
smallholder house orchards of mixed fruit trees through replanting
with improved varieties and better tree maintenance technology
(paras. 3.13);
(e)  Fisheries development, by the construction and stocking of some
160 ha of freshwater fish ponds on farmers' land; the development
of about 50 ha of ponds in aquaculture schemes on state land; the
extension of training facilities and rehabilitation of ponds and
hatcheries at the Inland Fisheries Training Center and the con-
struction of training and laboratory facilities at the Brackish-
water Aquaculture Center in the State of Kedah (paras. 3.14-3.16).
3.02       In addition the project would provide construction of a number of
agricultural service installations for DOA, FOA and FAMA (para. 3.17),
vehicles and equipment (para. 3.24) for agricultural support services and
operation and maintenance, staff training both locally and overseas (para.
3.21), and consultant services for detailed design and construction super-
vision of project works (para. 3.19) and for studies on aquaculture resources,
fruit production/marketing, RISDA's financial resources and management and
identification of future agricultural development projects in Malaysia for
possible Bank financing (para. 3.20).
Smallholder Rubber Development
3.03       Rubber Replanting.  Under the project RISDA would assist in the
replanting of about 15,100 ha of rubber (para. 5.01) phased to increase
annually from 2,750 ha in 1983 to 3,250 ha in 1987, in part, by financing the
replanting grants /1 to smallholders.  These grants which cover a large part
/1 The cess levied on rubber exports recovers most of the financial costs of
replanting grants, covering 86% of the total grant for holdings less than
4 ha and 80% for holding exceeding 4 ha.  The balances are provided by
the Federal Government (paras. 1.07 and 4.06 and Annex 5, Reference C2).



- 15 -
of the replanting and maintenance of the young rubber during its immaturity
(para. 4.07), are normally paid over six and a half years from planting.
Total project cost of replanting, excluding contingencies and access roads,
but including nongrant costs for mini-estates development, cover crop and
fertilizer subsidies and the family income maintenance loan is estimated at
about M$114 million.  There would be three categories of replanting:
(a)  Replanting by Individual Farmers.  About 10 ,100 ha or 67% of the
total replant would be undertaken by the individual owner-farmers;
there would be regular RISDA inspections throughout the period of
immaturity to ensure that required field standards are maintained
as a qualification of the periodic grant payments;
(b)  Replanting by Mini-estates (para. 2.13b).  About 4,600 ha or 30%
of the total area would be replanted as mini-estates averaging about
100 ha in area and not smaller than about 40 ha. In addition to
replanting, RISDA would install field infrastructure such as
terraces, drainage, perimeter fencing, and on-fann roads, RISDA
would finance about 335 km of access roads of lengths up to 12 km
but those longer than one kilometer (320 km) would be constructed by
SPWD (para. 3.11).  RISDA would manage the mini-estates throughout
immaturity and during production until the titleholders have repaid
RISDA's field development costs not recoverable from the replanting
grant.  These costs are estimated at about M$800/ha.
(c) Replanting by Group Replanting Programs (para. 2.13c). Some 400 ha
or 3% of the total replanting would be covered by these programs.
RISDA would organize participating, usually small, fanners
into operating groups, assist with arranging planting contractors
and supervise their subsequent field upkeep, but would not be
financially involved aside from administering the grants.
3.04       Upkeep of Immature Rubber.  About 13,200 ha of rubber replanted
under the RISDA program from 1977 to 1982 will be eligible for various
periods during the span of the project for the annual maintenance grant paid
for six years from the time of field establishment. The project would cover
the cost of these phased replanting grant payments estimated on current
rates at about M$26 million for the years 1983-87.
3.05       Nursery Development.  The project would establish a central RISDA
nursery of about 140 ha which would meet the annual requirements of planting
materials for RISDA's programs in the State. This nursery would replace the
numerous small nurseries currently contracted to supply most of RISDA's annual
needs and eliminate the need to bring in planting materials from other states.
A central operation would lead to an improvement in quality and uniformity of
the materials sent out to farmers.  A possible site for the new nursery in the
vicinity of Sungai Petani has been identified and soil and water resources
surveys are being arranged. The nursery would be developed in stages during
the project at an estimated cost of M$1.5 million including roads, drainage,
fencing, water and electricity supplies and buildings.



- 16 -
3.06      Processing Facilities.  Under the project, RISDA would continue
its program of establishing Group Processing Centers (GPC) for farmer groups
to assist them in converting their latex into clean quality sheet rubber.
Some 240 new GPCs would be constructed, each including a store room, to
bring the total number in the State to about 680. Each new GPC would be
provided with processing equipment and a weighing platform. RISDA would also
construct two regional smokehouses for its own operation. One smokehouse,
with a capacity of 675 ton/month (12 smoke rooms) would be located near
Sungai Petani on land already acquired by RISDA for their proposed State
Training Center while the second, of 90 ton/month capacity (2 smoke rooms),
would be built on Langkawi.
Infrastructure Development
3.07      Irrigation Works.  The project would improve existing facilities
in 38 schemes covering 8,850 ha. The works would include canals, drains,
farm roads, flood protection and other irrigation works. The schemes would
be evaluated on their individual merits including estimates of water
resources, agricultural yields and socio-economic impacts. Schemes scheduled
for development in Langkawi could be affected in their projected cropping
patterns and intensities by any changes in government agricultural programs
relating to the uses of the limited water resources of the Islands. For all
schemes of the project, selection for development would be based on the same
criteria adopted by the National Small Scale Irrigation Project (Loan
1444-MA). They would be not less than 40 ha area, and would have a
projected minimum economic rate of return (ERR) of 10%; those showing a
marginal ERR (8-10%) would be eligible for financing if the income of the
predominant group of beneficiaries was below the absolute poverty line and
that there were no alternative sources of income. An assurance was obtained
that DID would furnish the Bank with details of the preparation, design and
evaluation of the first five irrigation schemes scheduled for 1983 and of
all the schemes on Langkawi before tenders are invited, for the Bank's review
and comments. The Bank would accept all other project irrigation schemes
without prior review.
3.08      About 11.4 km of main and secondary canals would be rehabilitated
which would include desilting, reshaping, extension and upgrading of struc-
tures; an additional 6.5 km of main canals would be constructed to provide
for fringe areas of some of the schemes; and about 195 km of tertiary canals
would be remodelled and concrete lined. Alignment for quarternary canals
would be designed with the farmers agreement and construction would be
carried out by the farmers themselves under DID supervision. Other works
would include protection bunds for certain low lying areas, river protection
and training wherever needed and flow measurement devices for headworks on
each stream. A number of tidal control gates would be improved. Eleven of
the 15 pumping sets in the five pumping schemes (para. 2.14(b)) would be re-
placed to meet static head demands. Weirs and control drops would be pro-
vided to compensate for low level flows and steep slopes. Canals would be
designed to meet maximum dry season pre-saturation requirements for padi of
1.5-1.7 1/s/ha and their densities in all schemes raised from the current



- 17 -
5-30 m/ha to about 45 m/ha.  Weighted average cropping intensities in the
project schemes are expected to improve from about 140% to about 160%.
3.09       About 400 km of field and tertiary drains along with control systems
would be constructed or improved to protect fields and crops from damages of
inundation and run-off and to drain padi fields prior to harvest.  Drains in
padi areas would be designed to remove a 1 in 5 year frequency, two-day
duration storm in 72 hours, which is equivalent to about 5-7 1/s/ha. Schemes
in coastal areas would be provided with tidal control structures against
intrusion of sea water.  Generally the highest water level in padi fields
would be regulated at 150 mm above the lowest padi field level and the water
table in areas of perennial crops areas would be kept at a depth of 0.6 to
0.9 m below land surface.  Drainage intensity would be improved from its
present level of about 6 m/ha to about 35 m/ha.
3.10       Farm Roads.  About 380 km of farm  roads within and leading to the
padi schemes would be upgraded to widths of 2 to 3 m depending on site
conditions, with an earth formation of 45 to 60 cm and laterite surfacing of
15 cm depth. These roads would be constructed on canal and drain banks and
would be provided with the necessary crossings and drainage facilities. Road
spacing would be such that wherever possible no farm would be further than
500 m from a road so increasing road intensity from its current level of
7.5 m/ha to about 40 m/ha.  DID would be responsible for the construction and
maintenance of these roads.  For construction purposes the roads would be
grouped with the contract packages of the irrigation/drainage works.
Access Road Development
3.11       About 370 km of access roads comprising 320 km to rubber mini-
estates and 50 km to farmers' settlements with dusun development would be
constructed or upgraded under the project by the State Public Works
Department (SPWD).  The roads would have a 3.6 m path, 0.6 m side tables,
0.6 m formation, 15 cm laterite surfacing and parallel and cross drainage to
meet PWD standard No. 1 for all weather traffic requirements.  After
construction, maintenance of these roads would be the responsibility of
appropriate Government agencies.
3.12       Some 26 of the access roads to mini-estates totalling about
180 km are expected to be 5 km or longer; they are thus expected to serve
significantly larger agricultural areas than the mini-estates alone and
will benefit a larger community.  An assurance was obtained that economic
evaluations for the first five scheduled access roads of five kilometer
length or more, would be prepared by Government and furnished to the Bank
for review and comment before tenders are invited.  At this stage, the
road improvements are expected to provide an annual transport cost saving
of about M$5,000 per km together with some indirect benefits such as



- 18 -
some indirect benefits such as encouragement of rural development and access
to better domestic and agricultural services. For construction purposes the
roads would be grouped into large packages to attract competent contractors.
Fruit Development
3.13      About 2,025 ha of existing smallholder orchards and house lots
with mixed fruit trees (dusun) would be rehabilitated. Operations would
consist of selective felling of unproductive trees, land clearing and tree
pruning, supply of planting materials, fertilizers, pesticides and loan of
mechanical equipment to participating village community groups. Government
subsidy scheme assistance would be given to participants, amounting currently
to about M$220 per household for planting, fertilizer and chemical materials
and operating costs for mechanical equipment. Each year of the project
about 30-35 village areas would be rehabilitated; mobile offices with storage
facilities for agrochemicals and spraying equipment would be located tempo-
rarily in these villages to facilitate supervision and extension for the
program.
Fisheries Development
3.14      Fishpond Development.  The project would assist the DOF program
of developing freshwater fishponds on farmers' land by construction of some
620 ponds totalling about 160 ha and comprising about 460 ponds of 0.2 ha or
larger and about 160 ponds of 0.1 to 0.2 ha. Construction, which is esti-
mated to cost about M$20,000/ha would be undertaken by contractors arranged
by the farmers, or by the farmers themselves. The Government currently
subsidizes pond construction in amounts of M$3,000/pond for ponds of 0.2 ha
or larger and M$1,500/ponds for ponds of 0.1 to 0.2 ha. Each farmer may
receive construction subsidies for a multiple number of ponds up to a total
area of 1.62 ha. Operating inputs for the first year are also available
through the DOF under their production subsidy scheme which presently
amounts to M$500/pond (para. 5.15). Most ponds are sited on land classified
for general agriculture; idle padi lands could be used under the subsidy
scheme provided land use titles were first converted to the general
category.
3.15      Aquaculture Schemes.  Government proposes to allocate fishponds
on State lands to poor families who live in the vicinity and own little or
no land, as a means to supplement their incomes. The location and nature
of these schemes would await the results of the aquaculture resources
survey of Kedah (para. 3.20a) and the consultant's proposals for their
establishment. Provision has been made in the project for the construction
on a grant basis, of about 50 ha of ponds, starting 1985, at an estimated
cost of M$29,000/ha, a figure which reflects the likely difficult access and
working conditions at the sites for heavy machinery. The Government should
submit its aquaculture scheme proposals to the Bank for study and comment
not later than September 1984 in order that work could commence in early
1985 (para. 3.20a).



- 19 -
3.16      Training and Laboratory Facilities.  The existing Inland Fisheries
Training Center at Jitra would be expanded. A two-storey building would
provide classrooms and training facilities for fanmer courses and a hostel
for 24 trainees.  Existing laboratory facilities would be upgraded and a new
hatchery unit constructed for freshwater fish species to triple current
output of about one million fry/year to meet project requirements at full
development (and including surplus fry for public waterways). At Ban Merbok,
a Brackish Aquaculture Training Center would be built about one kilometer
from the existing ponds on a site already acquired for the purpose. The
Center would consist of hostel and laboratory facilities similar to those
planned for Jitra.
Agricultural Support Services
3.17      DOA, FOA, MARDI and FAMA would each be provided with additional
facilities to support their roles in the agricultural development of the
project area. To provide for DOA's training (para. 3.20) and extension
(para. 4.16) services, the project would construct three Rural Agricultural
Training Centers (RATC), four extension subcenters, two Crop Protection
Units and a Farm Mechanization Training Center and the extension of some
existing facilities.  The requirements of FOA's Komplex Geraktani (KGT),/1
which occupy areas of 1.2 to 2 ha and comprises an office block, storage
space and facilities for regular vehicle and machine service, would involve
renovation of 16 Farmer Development Centers (FDC) and 12 new KGT subcenters.
Agricultural research under MARDI to address production problems in project
areas would be strengthened.  It would focus on padi production for which
the main concerns are fertilizer rates, suitable rice varieties for the
project areas and mechanized planting.  Some agronomic work would also be
done on annual crops such as maize, groundnuts and vegetables. Location
specific trials on farmers' fields would be organized through six KGT
centers to field test and demonstrate promising technology.  For FAMA the
project would construct on Langkawi an agricultural marketing center with
processing equipment for copra and stalls for farmers to sell their produce.
Consultant Services and Studies
3.18       Consultant Services.  About 1,550 man-months of consultant ser-
vices, (about 1,335 local and 215 foreign) would be financed under the
project to provide implementation assistance to DID (para. 3.19) and to
undertake four specialized studies (para. 3.20).  The average cost of local
consultants (including salary, overhead, profits, local travel and
allowances) is estimated at about US$2,200 per man-month and that of foreign
consultants, about US$8,700 per man-month (Annex 1, Table 4).  Total base
/1  Complexes to house FOA staff and the representatives of the MOA agencies
working in the area and offices for representatives of other agencies
with operations closely linked with agriculture.



- 20 -
costs of consultant services are estimated at US$4.8 million (Table 3.1).
All consultants would be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures described by the Bank Guidelines and the Bank obtained an
assurance from the Government that consultants would be employed under terms
of reference and under conditions acceptable to the Bank.
3.19       DID has extensive experience in the design, execution and opera-
tion of irrigation and drainage works, and is fully qualified to undertake
the project works.  However, its current capacity is fully committed in
designing and supervising construction of on-going projects. Thus DID would
require about 890 man-months of local consultants and 20 man-months of
foreign consultants to assist in the preparation, design and construction
supervision of the project works.  Some 360 of these man-months would be
utilized before project implementation on works in progress since October
1981 (para. 3.25).
3.20      Studies.  The project would fund four studies.  Two proposed by
government would concern aquaculture and identification of future agri-
cultural development projects while the two requested by the Bank would
be fruit production/marketing and RISDA's financial resources. There would
be total requirements of 455 man-months of local and 195 man-months of
foreign consultants.
(a) Aquaculture Resources, State of Kedah. The project would finance
a study to assess the potential aquaculture resources, both freshwater and
brackish water, of the State for future development.  It is also intended to
provide a development strategy with support of economic evaluations, for the
proposed DOF aquaculture schemes that would supplement the income of poor
largely landless families, and for which the project makes provision for the
costs of pond construction (para. 3.15).  The survey would require an
estimated 50 man-months. An assurance was obtained that the study would be
completed by March 31, 1984.  Consultant terms of reference have been
received and reviewed by the Bank.
(b)  Fruit Production and Marketing.  The project includes 100
man-months for a proposed study of fruit production and marketing over
all states of Peninsula Malaysia; this study is at the request of the Bank
in view of the vigorous implementation of the national smallholder dusun
rehabilitation program. Attention would be given to present and projected
production levels of all important fruits grown by smallholders, fruit shelf
life, market locations and capacities, price projections and marketing
costs.  An assurance was obtained that the consultant terms of reference
for the study would be submitted to the Bank for review by March 31, 1983
and that the study would be completed by September 30, 1984.  The Bank would
conduct an early review of fundings in order to justify the annual hectarage
targets in the remaining years of the project's dusun program.  The study
would be conducted for MOA by local consultants with supporting services
from FARA.



- 21 -
(c) Financial Resources and Management in RISDA. A study of RISDA's
financial resources and management systems would be made to establish the
level of financial resources that the agency will need to support its
increasingly intensive role in improving the management of smallholder
rubber throughout Malaysia and the nature of the modified financial manage-
ment systems that could be introduced to ensure efficient implementation of
RISDA field programs. It would also assist the preparation of a national
RISDA development project for possible Bank financing. It would involve a
total of 50 man-months of consultants comprising 15 man-months of local and
35 man-months of foreign consultants. Terms of reference for the study and
inputs required for its implementation were agreed during negotiations.
Assurances were obtained that the consultants would be appointed by March 31,
1983, that the study would be completed by August 31, 1974 and that recom-
mendations of the study as agreed upon between the Government and the Bank
would be implemented according to an agreed schedule.
(d) Future Agricultural Projects. Project-financed studies to assist
the GOM in the identification and preparation of future agricultural projects,
including a national aquaculture resources study, for possible Bank financing
and involving 280 man-months of local and 160 man-months of foreign consult-
ancy inputs, would be monitored by EPIJ. The studies could cover both
Peninsular and East Malaysia and include development strategies for large
tracts of unutilized or underutilized lands. An assurance was obtained that
the consultant terms of reference for the first of the studies would be
submitted to the Bank for review and comment by March 31, 1983.
Training
3.21      The project would provide about M$1.8 million for training of MOA
staff and farmers. DOA would conduct short- and mediumterm courses of 3 to
100 days duration for an additional 1,700-2,000 farm trainees annually
through the facilities provided under the project. These courses would
include the training of tractor operators, leadership training for potential
farmer group leaders, and general farmer courses in padi and field crop
production, farm management and home economics. There would also be
in-service training courses for 60 field extension staff. For DOF, a total
of 186 weeks of local and overseas study-training for staff is proposed in
addition to training of farmers entering into fishpond farming. All new
assistant fisheries officers should take a one month course early in their
new postings at one of the fish breeding centers in the country while some
incumbent staff would have the opportunity of 2-week refresher courses.
Overseas study-training programs of about six weeks duration to keep abreast
of modern technology, would be made available during the project to
fisheries officers and some assistants at regional fisheries centers in such
countries as Thailand and Philippines. A summary of the project's total
program for training covering inputs, their costs and scheduling, of course
and study programs, building facilities, equipment and services, is given in
Annex 5, Reference C20.



- 22 -
Agriculture Service Installations
3.22      All project agencies are currently headquartered in various office
buildings in Alor Setar. Additional offices, storage space, workshops and
staff quarters are required in the districts. A project office would be
constructed in Sungai Petani for the Project Director and his staff. The
project would provide for a total of 240 staff quarters, 38 office units and
a wide range of agricultural facilities throughout the project area. Main
provisions would include, for RISDA 240 group processing centers (GPC) for
the rubber farmers and two smokehouses (para. 3.06); for DOA the construc-
tion of two RATCs, a Farm Mechanization Training Center, four extension
subcenters and two Crop Protection Units (para. 3.17); for DOF a freshwater
Inland Fisheries Training Center (and renovation of existing ponds and
hatchery facilities) and a Brackishwater Aquaculture Training Center (para.
3.16); an agricultural marketing center for FAMA (para. 3.17), and 12 new
KGT subcenters and renovation of 16 Farmer Development Centers (FDCs) for
FOA (para. 3.17).
3.23      DID would undertake the construction responsibility for the pro-
ject headquarters and the DOA installations in addition to irrigation works.
The SPWD would undertake construction responsibilities for major items of
other agencies or assist them in the appointment of job consultants.
Annex 1, Table 2 shows details of the building requirements of the individ-
ual agencies and Map IBRD 16423 shows locations of the various facilities.
Vehicles and Equipment
3.24      Vehicles and equipment would be purchased for project operation
and maintenance, training and agricultural support services. DOA would be
provided with equipment for training, extension and soil survey programs.
DID vehicle and equipment pools would be enlarged to accommodate the
increased volume of work for maintenance of canals, drains, flood routing,
farm roads and hydrological and meteorological recording. Equipment for
RISDA would support its expanding rubber replanting program, including road
plant for the maintenance of access and farm roads of the mini-estates and
small farm equipment for allocation to GPCs to assist farmers in their
replanting operations. Agricultural equipment and vehicles would also be
provided for DOF, FOA, MARDI, FAMA and the Project Director. A new main
workshop for DID which would take over their vehicle servicing operations
currently done by the Muda Authority and a number of repair shops for FOA
and DOA would be provided. Routine equipment maintenance for most of the
MOA agencies would be done in the DOA workshop near Alor Setar or in one of
FOA's Farm Mechanization Centers currently being built under an ADB loan.
RISDA's workshop is adequate for minor repairs while well-equipped private
workshops in the main district towns are available for more major works. A
complete list of equipment and vehicles to be provided under the project is
given in Annex 1, Table 3.



- 23 -
Status of Engineering
3.25      Consultants were appointed by MOA in 1981 to assist DID in the
preparation, planning, design and construction supervision of the rehabili-
tation of the small padi schemes in the State. Detailed technical and
economic evaluation reports and tender documents for schemes to be construc-
ted during the first year and totalling about 2,050 ha or 23% of the
project program would be ready by December 1982 (Annex 5 Reference C2). At
the time of appraisal the designs were in an advanced stage, and their
readiness will permit consultation with the farmers on channel alignments.
Construction quantity estimates were prepared from completed designs for
typical schemes, and will be finalized after final agreement with the
farmers is concluded. Access and farm road quantity estimates have been
based on provisional profiles and cross-sections on the existing tracks;
detailed investigation will be required for final designs and cost
estimates. As SPWD would be responsible for construction of all access
roads, they will coordinate with RISDA, the District Offices and the PD on
land acquisition and compensation one year in advance of each year's
program. SPWD will appoint consultants to assist in survey, planning,
design and construction supervision of each package of access roads. Staff
quarters would be designed to GOM standards and specifications.
Implementation Schedule
3.26      The project would be implemented over five years (January 1983 to
December 1987). Construction activities would increase gradually and peak
in 1984. In contrast agricultural programs in general would be more evenly
phased over the five years. The proposed implementation schedule is shown
in Figure 3.1. For the principal component rubber replanting including
mini-estate development, project activities would be an extension of the
ongoing program with targets rising over the project years. Dusun rehab-
ilitation and construction of freshwater fish ponds on farmers' fields
would also be part of ongoing programs having steady or expanding targets
throughout the project period. The aquaculture schemes however would be
scheduled for development only from 1985 (para. 3.15) following the recom-
mendations of the State Aquaculture Resources Study (para. 3.20a).
3.27      By end 1983, all designs and evaluation reports of padi schemes
would be completed. Farm roads and field drains would be implemented
together with the development of the farms. Access roads would be grouped
in three packages phased with the RISDA development program. Most other
agricultural facilities would also be provided during the first three years
of the project. Equipment and vehicles procurement would be phased with
field requirements, but grouped as much as possible for ICB purposes (para.
3.32 and Table 3.2). The various agencies would recruit most of the needed
staff over the first three years of the project.



- 24 -
Cost Estimate
3.28      Total project costs for the five year period 1983-87, in mid-1982
prices, are estimated at IJSS194.2 million, with a foreign exchange component
of US$56 million, or 29%. The cost estimates exclude all taxes and duties.
Cost estimates are based on quantities and unit prices prepared by the
implementing agencies. Unit prices are in line with recent bid prices in
Malaysia. Preparatory DID civil works and consultant expenditures totalling
about US$1.9 million from the time of appraisal have been included in the
cost calculations (para. 3.29). Physical contingencies of 15% have been
applied for the civil works and agricultural development programs, and 5%
for buildings, equipment and vehicles. Expected price increases over the
project implementation period amount to 32% of base costs plus physical
contingencies, assuming the expected price increases below:
1982    1983    1984    1985       1986-87
Local          13.0    13.0    10.0    10.0          6.0
Foreign         8.0      8.0     7.5      7.0        6.0
Details of the project costs are given in Annexes 1 and 5 and are summarized
in Table 3.1.
Financing
3.29      The proposed Bank loan of US$56.9 million including a front-end
fee of US$0.9 million, would finance the full foreign exchange requirements
of the project, including retroactively, up to US$0.5 million of expenditures
on civil works and consultant services incurred after appraisal (October
1981) for irrigation schemes (para. 3.28). The Government's contribution of
USS138.2 million would be financed through annual budgetary allocations.
Procurement
3.30      Civil Works.  The implementation of major works such as the larger
irrigation schemes and access roads, totalling about US$37.8 million/1 and
involving 8 contracts, would be procured by ICB in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. The balance of construction contracts to be financed under the
project, totalling 138 contracts and costing US$37.6 million, would consist
/1 All figures in paras. 3.30-3.32 include physical contingencies and
expected price increases.



- 25 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
For-                   For-          Foreign
Local  eign   Total  Local  eign  Total  exchange
-- (M$ million) ---  - (US$ million) --    (M)
Rubber development                106.1   34.9  141.0   46.1  15.2   61.3          25
Irrigation development             31.0   21.8   52.8   13.5   9.4   22.9          41
Access roads                       12.4    8.3   20.7    5.4   3.6    9.0          40
Dusun rehabilitation                1.3    1.0    2.3    0.6   0.4    1.0          40
Fishponds/Aquaculture schemes    2.2    1.3    3.5    1.0   0.5    1.5             38
Research                            0.6    0.2    0.8    0.3   0.1    0.4          20
Agricultural Service
Installations                    20.3    6.7   27.0    8.9   2.9   11.8          25
Equipment and vehicles              2.2   12.3   14.5    1.0   5.3    6.3          85
Consultant services and
studies                           5.3    5.7   11.0    2.3   2.5    4.8          43
Training                            0.6    0.5    1.1    0.3   0.2    0.5          43
Land acquisition                   18.3    -       18.3    8.0   -        8.0       -
Engineering and supervision         5.2    0.5    5.7    2.3   0.2    2.5          10
Incremental administration
and operation costs              14.9    2.1   17.0    6.5   0.9    7.4          12
Base Cost                    220.4   95.3  315.7   96.2  41.2  137.4         30
Physical contingencies             14.0   10.6   24.6    6.1   4.6   10.7          43
Expected price increases           82.6   23.5  106.1   35.9  10.2   46.1          22
Total Project Cost           317.0  129.4  446.4  138.2  56.0  194.2         29
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan           -      2.1    2.1       -    0.9    0.9    100
Total Financing Required          317.0  131.5  448.5  138.2  56.9  195.1          29



- 26 -
of buildings, rubber mini-estate development, minor irrigation works, short
stretches of farm roads and aquaculture schemes, with individual contracts
estimated to cost less than US$1.0 million. These small and widely scattered
works with an average cost of about M$ 270,000, are unlikely to interest
foreign bidders. They would be procured through local competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Bank and in which foreign bidders would have
the opportunity to participate. The third category of works to be financed
under the project and totalling US$37.8 million would cover individual or
group rubber replantings and fishpond development, implemented by farmers
under supervision of the relevant agencies.
3.31       Goods. Equipment, totalling US$3.7 million, would be grouped in
appropriate bidding packages and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in
bid evalution of 15% or the import duty, whichever is lower. Vehicles and
equipment in various packages estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
US$200,000 each and the equivalent of US$3.6 million in the aggregate would
be procured under LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Off-the-shelf
items estimated to cost not more than the equivalent of US$50,000 each and
not more than the equivalent of US$400,000 in the aggregate would be pro-
cured in accordance with Government procurement procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. Table 3.2 shows the details of procurement packages.
3.32       Contract Review.  Thresholds for the Bank's prior review of con-
tract documents for cost estimates of US$2.5 million equivalent for works
and US$500,000 equivalent for goods were established in the four most recent
projects in Malaysia (Loans 1957-MA, 1960-MA, 2013-MA and 2147-MA) and
coincide approximately with the tender ceiling levels approved at the
Ministerial level of Government. Bidding packages above these thresholds
would be subject to the Bank's prior review of documentation, resulting in
a coverage of about 50% each of the total estimated value of civil works
and goods contracts (Table 3.2). The balance of contracts would be subject
to post reviews by the Bank after contract award. A large part of total
contract value would be for works of similar kinds under DID, an agency
long experienced in Bank-financed projects.



- 27 -
Tahle 3.2:  SCHEDULE OF WORKS ANT) GOODS PACKAGES
Contracts                   Implemented by
No.      Amount (US$ million)/a   farmers /b
LCB      ICB       LCB        ICB       (US$ million)
Civil works
Rubber development       100        -       11.9         -            36.8
Irrigation works          15        5        9.0       24.6            -
Access roads               -        3        -         13.2             -
Buildings                 20        -       15.7        -
Fishpond                   -        -        -                          1.0
Aquaculture schemes        3       -          1.0       -              -
Subtotal           138        8        37.6       37.8           37.8
Consultant services
and studies                4        3        3.2        2.7            -
Goods
Equipment & vehicles    25          8        4.0        3.7
Total              167       19        44.8       44.2           37.8
/a Including physical and price contingencies.
/b For implementation by farmers or groups of farmers under relevant agency
supervision.
Disbursements
3.33      Disbursements would be at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported vehicles and equipment, or the ex-factory
price net of taxes for items manufactured locally, and at the rate of 80% of
the total costs of other local expenditures. Disbursement for civil works
executed by contract would be 44% of total costs. For rubber replanting and
maintenance, disbursement would be at the rate of 44% of the replanting grant
based on certified quarterly statements of expenditures. Related documents
would be retained by RISDA and made available to Bank supervision missions
for inspection. For consulting services, studies and staff training over-
seas, disbursements would equal 100% of total expenditures. Disbursements
for training would be processed by the Bank in packages preferably of not
less than about US$10,000. No disbursement would be made against development
of mini-estate infrastructure, dusun rehabilitation, fishpond development
and family income maintenance loans for rubber replanting (para. 4.08).
The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is presented in Annex 1, Table 6.
3.34      The schedule of disbursements has been projected with the following
assumptions:



- 28 -
(a)  the project provides for retroactive financing from October 1981
totalling about US$0.5 million;
(b) disbursements may fall behind the implementation schedule by up
to 12 months for on-going programs in rubber development and up
to 18 months due to delayed completion of works, based on past
experience with similar projects in the country; and
(c) a number of small irrigation and drainage schemes which would
be implemented by small contractors may face some land acquisi-
tion delays.
Disbursement estimates are faster than in the country subsector profile due
to the large rubber replanting and maintenance component but more conserva-
tive than actual overall experience of area development projects in the
region (Annex 1, Table 7).  It is expected that disbursements would be
completed by December 31, 1988.
Accounts and Audits
3.35      All agencies involved in project implementation are subject to
normal government controls and audit procedures. They would each maintain
separate project accounts which would be collated by the Project Director.
Assurances were obtained that all project accounts for each fiscal year
would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank; and that
certified copies of audited financial statements would be forwarded to the
Bank within nine months of the close of each financial year.
Environmental Effects
3.36      Land development would. be carried out within the guidelines of the
Malaysian Conservation Act which provides adequate safeguards against
erosion, siltation and excessive flooding.  The scattered nature of develop-
ment would limit the impact of increased run-off and of dissolved plant
nutrients.  Lmprovements to drainage and river channels would prevent
occurrence of standing water and flooding and thereby mitigate crop damage.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Organization and Coordination
4.01      The project, promoted by the Federal Economic Planning Unit (EPU)
within the context of the objectives of the Fourth Malaysia Plan, would be
the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). It would involve
five participating agencies of that Ministry, one of the Ministry of Lands
and Regional Development, and two of the Kedah State Government.  The eight
participating agencies would be as follows:



- 29 -
(a) under the Ministry of Agriculture
(i) Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID)
(ii) Department of Agriculture (DOA)
(iii) Farmers Organization Authority (FOA)
(iv) Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
(MARDI)
(v) Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority (FAMA)
(b)  under the Ministry of Lands and Regional Development (MIRD)
(i) The Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
(RISDA).
(c) under the Kedah State Government
(i) Department of Public Works (SPWD)
(ii) Department of Lands and Mines (DLM)
4.02      Other supporting agencies include Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM)
and the National Padi and Rice Authority (LPN). In addition EPU would
monitor the proposed studies into possible future agricultural projects for
Bank participation. The responsibilities of the various involved agencies
are detailed in paras. 4.06 to 4.26.
4.03      Management of the project would be in accordance with the MOA-
adopted 1980 recommendations of the Malaysian Administrative Modernization
and Manpower Planning Unit (MAMPU) for agricultural development projects
(see reference Annex 5, Item B4). A Project Director (PD), already
appointed by the MOA, would be responsible for overall project direction and
operation. He would be guided in this work through his participation in the
MOA Project Steering Committee governing the execution and policy matters of
the project. The members of this Committee would be representatives of
Federal Government bodies with project concerns such as Treasury and the
Public Services Department, and Directors General of project line agencies.
The Committee would be co-chaired by the Secretary-General of MOA and the
State Secretary of Kedah, the latter providing the Kedah State Government
with a direct linkage to project decision making and promoting cooperation of
State agencies and authorities.  This management structure is in place for a
number of ongoing Bank-financed agricultural development projects in
Malaysia.  In all but the most recent of these, there wre long delays in
the appointment of the PD and these have been accompanied by poor rates of
project implementation. The appointment of a PD well in advance of project
start-up, as in the Malacca project (Loan 2147-MA) and already achieved for
the Kedah proposal, should enhance project performance.  To assist coordina-
tion of project activities with other State development programs, the PD



- 3( -
would be a member of the Kedah State Planning Committee on Development,
chaired by the Director of the State Planning Unit, through which he would
have interaction with the Kedah Regional Development Authority (KEDA).  This
Authority, formed in 1981, is responsible for the overall development
planning in the non-Muda area.  Structural relationships between the PD's
office and project executive bodies of the Federal and State governments are
indicated in Figure 4.1.
4.04       The PD would maintain his office at Sungai Petani, some 50 km
south of the state capital, in accordance with the state decision designed
to give the project a strong identity with its region.  Inconveniences of
communication are not considered to pose significant problems for project
operations. The PD would be assisted by three key staff - two economists
for monitoring and evaluation of project works and an accounting officer.
Appointment of one of the economists and the accounting officer would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.  One of the economists would also serve as
assistant project director, and, along with the accounting office, should be
in place at project start-up.  Further, all line agencies would appoint a
liaison officer, of senior rank, for full- or part-time representation at
the PD's office depending on the size of the agency's project program.
Agencies with large programs such as DID would be represented by a project
unit in the PD's office. The PD will be chairnan of a Technical Committee
on project activities, made up of representatives of all line agencies.
4.05       The detailed responsibilities of the PD would include:  (a)
monitoring the plans, programs and schedules of implementing agencies and
synchronizing them with the overall project schedule; (b) coordinating
multi-agency agricultural support programs; (c) advising agencies under MOA
of availability of funds for project activities, collating of project
accounts of all agencies involved in project implementation, and preparing
statements of expenditures for loan disbursements; (d) the monitoring of
expenditures of all agencies as a measure of the pace of project implementa-
tion; (e) preparing annual project budgets, including staff and training
requirements and procurement of vehicles and equipment; (f) representing the
project in meetings of MOA with Government agencies in matters concerning
budgetary allocations and staff requirements; and (g) reporting progress at
regular intervals to the Government and the Bank.
Agency Responsibilities
4.06      Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority.  RISDA, an
agency under the Ministry of Lands and Regional Development, would be
responsible for replanting, extension, processing and other assistance to
rubber smallholders. For these functions RISDA has two main fund sources,
the replanting cess on smallholder rubber exports and, since January 1,
1982, a regular Government-funded operating and development budget. Whereas
previously the sources and uses of RISDA's funds were not intimately related
to each other, their uses have now been defined by Treasury regulation and



- 31 -
this tightened Government financial and program control has placed RISDA
in a budgetary position similar to that of regular line agencies. Until
1981 RISDA did not suffer financial constraints but in that year its liquid
fund balances declined from M$309 million to about $150 million. By June
1982, there was a further decline to about $85 million, an amount equivalent
to about one third of projected cess expenditures for the year. A deficit
cash balance is anticipated by end-1982 unless planned development and other
expenditures are strongly curtailed. Thus the financial support for RISDA's
crucial activities in improving the productivity of rubber smallholders
(Malaysia's largest poverty group) and the initiation of an institution-
building program for the agency through the financial resources and
management study (para. 3.20c), are fully justified and timely components of
this project.
4.07       RISDA administers several assistance programs for rubber small-
holders wishing to replant uneconomic old rubber. Most important is the
rubber replanting grant program which is financed largely from a cess on
rubber exports (para. 6.15) and designed to cover most of the development
and maintenance costs of replanting rubber including land preparation,
planting materials, fertilizers and chemicals, up to the commencement of
tapping. The balance of the grant since mid-1982 is being met from RISDA
funds in place of a government budget allocation. The grant is paid in
installments of cash and kind at intervals over about six and a half years
subject to satisfactory compliance with various field work and maintenance
requirements. (Details of the phasing of grant payments are given in Annex
5 Reference Cl). The total amounts of the grant which were last revised in
1981, and which are at two levels according to the area of rubber owned by
the replanter, are:
For the first
4 ha                M$5,430/ha [$4,690 from cess, $740 from
RISDA funds]
For areas from
4 ha to 40 ha        M$3,700/ha [$2,960 from cess, $740 from
RISDA funds]
4.08      A second major assistance scheme for replanters administered by
RISDA is the Family Income Maintenance Loan program initiated in 1981 and
available to farmers owning and operating a total of less than 4 ha of
rubber and eligible for replanting grant assistance. Subject to certain
limits of other income, they may receive a loan of M$100/family/month for
six years from the start of replanting, repayable interest free over 15
years from the third year of production of the replanting. RISDA also
provides a subsidy to cover the costs of establishing leguminous cover crop
in the interrows of the young rubber and free fertilizer for the first three
years of tapping of the new stand.
4.09       In its program of development of mini-estates (para. 2.13b)
RISDA aims to encourage not only the replanting of small rubber lots but
also to raise the standards of replanting above those normally achieved by



- 32 -
individual holders. The program is often implemented in remote areas with
small sized holdings and a high incidence of family poverty. It brings
improved field technology and management to the smallholding areas and
provides a much enhanced field infrastructure of on-farm roads, terracing
and drainage, and in some cases perimeter fencing for which the costs will
be recovered by RISDA from the income of the mini-estate during about the
first 15 years of tapping. Due to remoteness, many mini-estates require
relatively long access roads for viable operation but the costs of these
roads are carried by RISDA. The cost of the various infrastructure inputs
lowers the investment return of mini-estates below that of individual
smallholdings (para. 7.11a) despite their higher average yields (1,350 kg/ha
for mini-estates compared to 1,200 kg/ha for smallholdings over their first
20 years of production). However, without the program, much low yielding
smallholder rubber would otherwise remain unimproved and eventually go
totally out of production. For smallholders wishing to replant on an
organized group basis but whose land cannot be conveniently amalgamated into
a mini-estate, RISDA operates its Group Replanting Program (para. 2.13c).
4.10      RISDA promotes among small farmers the formation of Group Proces-
sing Centers (GPC) in village locations and in mini-estates, meeting the
cost of construction of a covered processing floor, store room and frequently
a farmers' meeting hall, and supplying of simple manually-operated process-
ing equipment. These centers, supported by RISDA extension inputs, provide
farmers the opportunity to produce clean quality sheet which commands an
enhanced market price. Each GPC is limited in size to about 25 farmer
members who administer its operations through a committee and who also act
as custodians of the supplied equipment. Members of GPCs normally sell
their unsmoked sheet rubber in bulk to local market dealers. With the
installation under the project of a large centrally located smokehouse at
Sungai Petani and a smaller one on Langkawi Island. RISDA would be able to
enter these local village markets competitively, purchasing from both GPCs
and individuals, to help boost farmers' prices. Nationally RISDA is already
producing quality rubber from such purchases, exporting it under their
registered mark through their national marketing division.
4.11      One of the most important aspects of RISDA's responsibilities to
farmers is providing extension services to farmers over and above the admin-
istration and regulatory functions associated with its several assistance
schemes. Through extension, including farmer training programs, RISDA aims
to raise standards of field planting including tree maintenance through
immaturity. Currently there is little of this latter type of operation in
effect; monitoring is largely confined to verification of physical inputs
into replants and to the regulation of the grant replanting payments. To
meet these demands, the project would expand the number of field officers by
42 to a total of 171 so improving the overall ratio of field officers to
farmers from about 1:500 to 1:375. These incremental staff would be
additional to any further staff required for regulatory work.
4.12      One of RISDA's key responsibilities in the granting of replanting
assistance is that of verifying applicant eligibility. Most frequently the
disqualifying cause is no land title and some 25% of the 1981 replanting
applications were rejected for this reason. The problem affects a large



- 33 -
number of farmers on their traditional lands in addition to those on
illegally planted State lands for which replanting grants are not payable.
The absence of land titles could become a constraint on the attainment of
the project's replanting targets. RISDA is already working closely with the
District Land Office to find ways of accelerating the process of issuing
land titles and has also been considering some form of credit terms for
farmers unable to meet the land premium fees in the titling process. The
Bank would closely monitor the influence of the land title question on
annual replanting performance. It would also request RISDA to submit a
report by the end of 1983 on the results of its cooperative efforts with the
District Land Office to lessen the problem.
4.13      Drainage and Irrigation Department.  DID would be responsible for
implementation, maintenance and operation of irrigation and drainage works,
the construction of buildings costing up to about M$0.5 million and of farm
roads, the engagement of consultants for planning, design and construction
supervision (para. 3.23) and the appointment of a team of departmental staff
headed by a senior engineer for overall supervision and management. This
team would coordinate the work between the State DID Office and the PD's
office, and would be located in the PD's office. The Kedah State DID would
assume the responsibility for operation and maintenance of works upon
completion and acceptance by the Federal DID.
4.14      State Public Works Department.  The SPWD would be responsible for
planning, design and construction supervision of major buildings costing in
excess of about M$0.5 million, such as possibly DOF's Aquaculture Training
Center at Ban Merbok, and of all access roads of more than one kilometer
length leading to rubber mini-estates and to villages where dusun
rehabilitation programs are to be conducted. They would engage consultants
for these duties and for surveys. A departmental team would be appointed
for overall direction, supervision and coordination with the PD's office on
financial matters and with the Department of Lands and Mines on land
acquisition.
4.15      Department of Agriculture.  DOA would be responsible for agricul-
tural support services, particularly staff and farmer training, extension in
padi areas, crop protection and soil survey; training of tractor operators;
and supply of planting materials and other inputs for fruit orchard
rehabilitation. A senior DOA officer would be designated administratively
responsible for the programming, coordination and implementation of the DOA
project components and would function as a liaison officer with the Project
Director. This officer would also be responsible for the monitoring and
evaluation of the impact of extension programs which would focus on the
intensification of padi production and on dusun rehabilitation. The find-
ings would provide the orientation needed in training programs for field
staff, farmer leaders or groups of farmers to address their problems of
production. Further, the operational manual on T and V systems prepared by
DOA under Loan 1493-MA should greatly assist staff in these aspects of their
work (para. 3.21).



- 34 -
4.16      Additional agricultural technicians recruited under the project
would improve the ratio of field extension agents to farmers from the
current 1:1,500 to about 1:600-700 for full time extension and training
activities. The incremental AT's would undertake training and visit (T&V)
system extension work under the guidance of district supervisors and subject
matter specialists, already in place under the National Extension Project
(Loan 1493-MA). They would not be involved with routine regulatory duties
of the State DOA such as land inspections, crop cutting surveys, and
distribution of inputs for various crop subsidy programs, all of which would
be carried out by other staff.
4.17      The Federal Soils and Analytical Services branch would undertake
soil surveys, soil analyses and mapping in the project area. It would
complete semi-detailed surveys covering about 315,000 ha. The information
would be used for improved crop production planning, and interim fertilizer
recommendations in line with current MARDI research findings.
4.18      Three important specialized services would be provided by the
appropriate specialized DOA units. The Crop Protection Unit would provide a
pest and disease surveillance system, especially for padi areas, specialist
advisory services for farmers through the extension branch on major pest and
disease problems, and organization and extension of control measures. Two
subcenters of this unit would improve coverage in the north and south zones
of the State. The Crop Production Unit would be responsible for the
availability of supplies of planting materials for dusun rehabilitation from
departmental nurseries and contracts with supervised private nurseries.
Maintenance of project vehicles and machinery would be carried out by the
Farm Mechanization Unit located near Alor Setar.
4.19      Department of Fisheries.  DOF is responsible for the development
of the State's aquaculture resources and is currently supporting the instal-
lation and operation of farmers' freshwater and brackishwater fishponds and
marine fish cages. Under the project, and through its administration of the
government's fishpond subsidy scheme, DOF would be responsible for the
design and construction standards of farmers' freshwater ponds (farmers make
their own contractual arrangements for construction), for material and
financial aid for the first year of pond operation, as well as providing
field extension services and farmer training, strengthened by staff train-
ing programs, at its Inland Fisheries Training Center in fishpond production
technology. The further development of aquaculture through the
implementation of brackish water pond schemes on State land for poor farmers
would involve DOF in supportive investigational, training and demonstration
programs at the Brackishwater Aquaculture Training Center. At present the
DOF has 42 fisheries officers including 33 assistants. Their functions are
mainly regulatory for the pond subsidy schemes and providing extension
services to pond operators. Under the project, 12 additional fisheries



- 35 -
officers would be appointed to adequately support the expanding area of
ponds and the two DOF farmer training centers.
4.20      Farmers Organization Authority.  FOA provides services to 38,000
farm families of the project area and during the last three years its
membership has had an annual increase of about 2,000 families. FOA is
responsible for setting up and management of Farmers Cooperatives formed
from the amalgamation of rural cooperatives and providing them with Farmers
Development Centers (para. 3.17). In addition, FOA provides mechanized
agricultural services especially tractor and transport vehicle hires,
administers the fertilizer and agrochemical subsidy programs, and runs
farmer and staff training courses. The farmer courses are tiered in
content so as to provide for the needs of lead and good farmers separately
from the others. Topics of study cover management systems, leadership,
principles of cooperatives and credit. Staff training, both local and
abroad concerns formation, operation and management of farmers'
organizations.
4.21      Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute.  MARDI
is a semi-autonomous Federal organization with its policy under the direction
of the MOA. It maintains a number of research centers for both crop-orien-
ted and more general agricultural research in various parts of the country.
A new research center for Kedah, located near Alor Setar was opened in 1982.
Although rice research in the Muda area is its main concern, work will be
increasingly focussed on the agricultural production problems for rice,
short term field crops (maize, groundnuts and vegetables) and fruit in the
project area. At present only three of MARDI's nine research officers are
working in the project area but to strengthen this effort and to initiate
demonstration plots of promising new technology in farmers' field, three
more research officers would be appointed with additional supportive staff.
The ratio of research officers to assistant research officers and research
assistants would improve from 1:1:2 to about 1:2:3 as a result of the
project. The plots in farmers' fields to demonstrate new technologies and
to test them under local conditions would be conducted through six KGT
centers. Transfer of proven technologies to farmers' practice is the
responsibility of the Extension Liaison Units of the Federal DOA Extension
service which form the link between MARDI and DOA in implementation of field
technology. The State Agricultural Planning Research and Development
Extension Committee (SARDEC) provides an additional coordination and link
service between research and other agricultural activities.
4.22      Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority.  FAMA assists the small-
holders in marketing their produce such as fruit, vegetables, field crops,
coconut, and cocoa through its agricultural marketing centers. In the
project it would be responsible for providing collection, processing,
storage and marketing facilities for copra, fruit and short-term field crops
at the proposed marketing center on Langkawi Island. Under MOA direction,
FAMA would also be required to assist in the study on the likely production
levels and marketability of fruit in Peninsular Malaysia (para. 3.20b).



- 36 -
4.23      Department of Lands and Mines (DLM).  DLM would be responsible for
land acquisition and property compensation throughout the project area.  To
accelerate its work and meet project targets, a team of 23 land officers was
appointed in 1981 to work with DID on land acquisition; about 20% of the
lands needed for the irrigation and drainage works has been acquired to
date.  A second team is now being formed to handle the land requirements of
all access roads, buildings and other facilities to be provided under the
project. To ensure timely completion of all land acquisition and compensa-
tion, these DLM teams would be reinforced by a Federal Mobile Task Force
whenever necessary. It is projected that all DLM work would be completed by
end-1984. DLM will coordinate closely with the implementing agencies and
the PD to avoid delays in project implementation. The PD would provide all
the working needs of the teams including renovation of a working office
within the DLM compound.
4.24      Bank Pertanian Malaysia (Malaysian Agricultural Bank) (BPM).  BPM
would provide credit from its own resources to smallholders either directly
or, for cooperative members, through FOA. BPM credit would be used for
meeting construction costs in excess of the government subsidy level of fish
ponds on farmers' land. In 1980, BPM for Kedah/Perlis approved agricultural
loans of M$8.93 million to about 8,000 farmers, two thirds of which amount
was short-term credit, nearly all for padi and tobacco production. Loans
for fisheries activities totalled about M$90,000 to 22 borrowers. Under the
Government's poverty alleviation strategy, loans to smallholders are
interest free.
4.25      National Padi and Rice Authority (LPN).  LPN was established in
1971 as a statutory body to ensure fair and stable padi and rice prices for
farmers and consumers and adequate rice supplies, and to recommend policies
to promote padi development. The purchase price of padi is reviewed
annually by Government with advic.e from LPN. LPN buys rice in the growing
areas, provides drying, storage and processing services and sells rice to
wholesalers. It also administers the price support coupons for growers and
compiles rice-related statistics. LPN would act as a support agency in the
project.
Extension Services
4.26      Extension services and farmer training programs are currently
provided in the project area by several of the line agencies including DOA,
FOA and DOF for which the project would provide new or extended training
facilities, and RISDA. Although each agency deals with some specific aspects
of production, there are others, such as short-term field crops, which may be
covered by more than one of the agencies. Coordinated agency programs are
therefore desirable to avoid duplications and possible farmer confusion and to
this end the PD would furnish the Bank within the first project year with
proposals for coordinating the various agencies' agricultural extension
programs serving all groups of farmers for review and comment. These
proposals should take into consideration those of the same type to be prepared
under the Malacca project (Loan 2147-MA).



- 37 -
Staffing
4.27      To develop the project, it is estimated that the line agencies
would require a total of some 490 additional staff phased over the five year
period (Annex 5, References C1-C9). These would comprise al-ut 17 grade A
45 grade B and 215 grade C appointments representing about 56% of the total,
and the balance of 215 in the low-salaried category, grade D.  The Government
would establish these or an otherwise adequate numbers of posts to ensure
effective project implementation and post-project maintenance and appoint
qualified staff in a timely manner.
Operation and Maintenance
4.28      Kedah State DID would operate and maintain the irrigation and
drainage works to the tertiary level and farm roads for which the estimated
O&M cost is M$ 92 per ha. Operation of the irrigation system below the
tertiary canal offtakes would be by the farmers under the guidance of DID
irrigation overseers who would also instruct farmers on planned water dis-
tribution and management.  Under present policy RISDA would operate and
maintain the mini-estates on behalf of the smallholder participants from the
time of land clearing through to about 15 years of production of the replanted
rubber to enable owners to fully reimburse the agency for development costs
not recoverable from the replanting grant. Subsequently smallholders would
become responsible for their own holdings. RISDA would also maintain and
manage the two central smokehouses provided by the project. Access roads
leading to mini-estates and to villages with dusun rehabilitation would be
maintained by appropriate government agencies (para.  3.11).  The other
agencies would be responsible for the management of their respective facil-
ities. Smallholders with fishponds would manage and maintain them under the
guidance of DOF.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.29      Monitoring of project implementation would be carried out by the
PD's Office (paras. 4.02-4.05). In addition, RISDA, DOA, and DOF would
periodically survey and report the benefits of their respective components.
For the RISDA program, monitoring would focus on the identification of
intending replanters so that they could be more effectively phased into the
replanting program and assess replanting performance in terms of density,
growth and productivity of the new trees. Physical and financial progress
reports from the implementing agencies would be collated by the PD and
submitted to the Government and the Bank on a regular basis. Monitoring of
project benefits would be undertaken by the MOA through its Planning and
Development Division which is responsible for monitoring and evaluation of
all multi-component agricultural development projects under MOA. Monitoring
would involve benchmark surveys and subsequent periodic surveys and evalua-
tions. The Division would work closely with the key staff of the Project
Director and the implementing agencies.



- 38 -
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
Rubber
5.01      Phasing of Development.  About 85% (12,850 ha) of the rubber area
for replanting will consist of small lots of less than 4 ha with an average
area of around 1.6 ha. The 15% balance or 2,250 ha will average about 6
ha/lot. However some 4,640 ha embracing 4,150 ha (32%) of the small
rubber farms and 500 ha from the larger size category would be organized into
about 50 mini-estates of a minimum size of about 40 ha. The proposed phasing
of replanting by these three categories is shown in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1:  PHASING OF RUBBER REPLANTING
(ha)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987        Total
Individual holdings <4 ha  1,600   1,650   1,800   1,800   1,800    8,700
Individual holdings >4 ha    300        350     350      350      400    1,750
Mini-estates                   850      900      950     950   1,000    4,650
Total                  2,750   2,900   3,100   3,100   3,250   15,100
With a total area of about 165,000 ha of smallholder rubber in the State, a
fully developed 30 year planting cycle would require an average annual
replanting rate of 5,300 ha, some 60% more than the final year target of
this project. Currently there is a considerable interest in replanting as
reflected by the level of applications for grants which for 1981 covered
13,000 ha. There is considerable area loss however due to land titleship
problems and failure to start field operations in the year of grant approval
(para. 4.12). Problems of these types would be addressed through RISDA's
monitoring activities (paras. 4.11, 4.29).
5.02      The areas replanted from 1977 through 1982 for which field mainte-
nance would be financed under the project are shown in Table 5.2.  Grant
installments would cover costs of fertilizers, chemicals for weed and



- 39 -
disease control and a cash component for labor costs. Details of the grant
installments are given in Annex 5, Reference Cl.
Table 5.2: RUBBER AREAS FOR TIME-SLICE FINANCING
OF MAINTENANCE COSTS (ha)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Replanted 1977-82              13,170  11,170   9,055   7,125   5,010
5.03      Yields and Production.  The assumed yield profiles of replanted
rubber over 25 years of production by size of holding and for mini-estates
are shown in Annex 5 Reference C 1. The mean annual yield estimate for
holdings under 4 ha is 1,170 kg/ha, for holdings larger than 4 ha at 1,300
kg/ha. For mini-estates the estimate is 1,275 kg/ha and reflects both the
use of advanced planting materials (polybag buddings) and the benefit of
RISDA's close supervision and management of the replants during their imma-
ture period and about the first 15 years of tapping. Production levels
are assumed to deteriorate after the areas revert to smallholder management.
It is anticipated that mini-estates will come into production in the fifth
year from replanting compared to the sixth year for individual
smallholdings. In both larger individual holdings and miniestates it is
assumed that yields would be boosted by the application of chemical
stimulants to the tapping panel from about the tenth year of tapping.
Without replanting, old rubber might remain in production for up to 15 years
with yields declining to an estimated uneconomic level of 225 kg/ha.
Estimated total production with and without the project at intervals over
the 25 years from the start of the project is shown in Table 5.3. The
incremental production of rubber from project replanting activities is
estimated at 63,000 tons over 25 years.



40  -
Table 5.3:  SUMMARY OF RUBBER PRODUCTTON WITH A;D WIT7OUT PROJECT
(tons)
Total
/a                      25
1933  1987    1992   1997  1999    2002    2007  years
With Project
Replanted-individual   3,690   390   4JT70 14,690 15,820 IT,880 12,430  219,210
Replanted mini-estates 1,640   170   3,420  7,250  7,710  7,A90  5,820  114,500
Maintenance area             - 7,120  18,810 18,500 17,180 15,590 14,010  344,060
Total              5,330 7,680  263800 40,440 40,710 37,960 32,260  677,770
Without Project
Replanted area/b         5,820 4,860   4,100  3,580  2.170          -      -   74,580
Maintenance area/c       4,020 3,530   2,650       -       -                    40,180
Total              9,840 8,390   6,750  3,580  2,170              -      114,760
Incremental             (4,510) (710) 20,050 36,860 38,540 37r960 32,260  563,010
/a  Peak production year;
/b  No tapping after 2001 due to very low returns to farmer,
/c  No tapping after 1996 due to very Low returns to farmer.
5.04      Crop Establishment,  Rubber of clones GT1, PR25'. and 261 would be
planted at a density of up to 555 trees/ha on small indiVidual holdings and
500 trees/ha on larger ho'dings and mini-estates. Most farmers currently
replant with about 500 trees/ha but RISDA supports the higner level as
appropriate for small farmers as they often lose many trees during imma-
turity and have low requirements for hired labor. Replanting materials
would be budded stulmps arnd polybag buddings used in an overall ratio of
about 3:1,
5.05      Nursery Devel3oDment.  Production of planting materials, currently
scattered over some 14 small and temporary nurseries mostly operating under
contract for RISDA, would be transferred to the new 140 ha central nursery
to be located near Sungei Petani.  The nursery site would be cleared for
production in stages over 4 years (with infrastructure and buildings
completed in the first two years) and the temporary nurseries phased out
accordingly. By 1987 it is estimated that the central nursery would be



- 41 -
producing full project requirements of some 1.6 million budded stumps and
0.5 million polybag buddings annually and have an established clone source
bush area of 13 ha. Planting materials are currently distributed to farmers
against credit of their replanting grant at a fixed price of M29.5 cents for
budded stumps and M72.0 cents for polybag buddings, including delivery;
these prices roughly equal costs of production.
5.06      Crop Maintenance.  In immature rubber the main expenditures of
field maintenance are for weed control and fertilizers, weed control being
the main criterion in the approval of installment payments of the replanting
grant. RISDA's experience is that for small farmers a large proportion of
grant establishment, particularly for the first two years, is used on her-
bicides for control of Imperata cylindrica, a coarse grass that is highly
competitive with young trees. With fertilizers, RISDA distributes rock
phosphate for use in the planting holes, dressings for the legume cover crop
and NPKMg compound fertilizers for regular applications over six years of
immaturity. The quantities routinely supplied through the grant do not
however come up to standard Malaysian recommendations for young rubber in
years 4 to 6 of tree immaturity. The total under-provision is about 420
kg/ha or 15% of requirements during immaturity (Annex 5, Reference Cl
compares recommended rates with normal RISDA rates). Farmers may request
additional fertilizer against their grant credit and those with larger
replants not uncommonly do this. The under usage of fertilizer can be
expected to extend the period of tree immaturity and lower future yield
potential. The total fertilizer requirements for the project at recommended
rates are given in Table 5.4.
Table 5.4: RUBBER FERTILIZER REQUIREMENTS
OF PROJECT (1983-87)
(tons)
NPK           Rock
compounds    phosphate
Project-Replanted rubber        11,780        6,040
Immature Maintenance            17,430        1,020
Trees in Tapping (3 years)       6,870           -
Nursery                            630          390
Total                        36,710        7,450
5.07      Harvesting and Processing.  Most smallholders process their latex,
often at GPCs, into air-dried sheets and market them through village deal-
ers. Others sell fresh latex to the Malaysian Rubber Development



- 42 -
Corporation (IARDEC) which has crumb rubber factories in the State.  With
the establishment of a large central smokehouse in the Central District,
RISDA will enter the market for smallholder rubber as part of its national
strategy to support fair market prices for small farmers.
Padi
5.08       Water Supply, Demand and Quality.  The water supply for all irri-
gation schemes comes from either direct rainfall or river and stream
runoffs.  Rainfall in excess of 5 mm and less than 40 mm per day is assumed
effective for plant growth. River waters for irrigation are of excellent
quality for padi and annual field crop production. For all the schemes the
presaturation period for the off-season crop of maize or vegetables corres-
ponds to the period when stream flows are minimum and rainfall is at its
lowest level. The estimated water demand for each individual scheme is
based on 100% cropping intensity for padi in the main season and 100%
intensity in the off-season for padi or an alternative crop (Annex 5,
Reference C2). Lining of tertiary canals should make for substantial water
savings and higher cropping intensities during the off-season. Water require-
ments for a typical scheme calculated on the above assumptions are shown in
the cropping schedule example (Figure 5.1).
5.09       Cropping Pattern, Yields and Production.  Padi production extends to
about 8,850 ha in the areas scheduled for irrigation and/or drainage
improvement under the project. Present yields average about 2.5 tons/ha in
both the main and the off-season plantings; the present cropping intensity of
about 140% gives an annual padi production of about 31,100 tons. Without
public investment, little change from current production levels is likely.
Gradual deterioration of irrigation and drainage facilities would offset any
modest yield increases arising from changes in cultural practices initiated by
the farmers themselves.
5.10       With improved water management, together with introduction of
higher yielding varieties, better distribution of inputs, and improvements
in agricultural support services including machinery for land preparation
and pest control services, it is expected that an average yield of about 3.2
tons/ha and average cropping intensity of 160% would be achieved within 3
years of the completion of project works. The expected changes in cropping
patterns, yields and production are shown in Table 5.5.



- 43 -
Table 5.5: PADI CROPPING PATTERN, YIELD AND PRODUCTION
(With and Without Project)
Cropped area          Yield             Production
Without   With    Without    With    Without   With
(ha)             (ton/ha)              (ton)
Main season              8,850   8,850    2.5        3.2       22,100   28,300
Off season               3,540   5,310    2.5        3.2        8,800   17,000
Total                12,390  14,160                         30,900   45,300
Cropping intensity X   140       160
5.11      Cropping Calendar.  Inadequate water is a recurrent seasonal
problem in many padi areas, hence the achievement of maximum benefits from
irrigation is dependent on strict adherence to a cropping calendar.
Adoption of well coordinated and uniform phasing of land preparation,
nursery sowing and transplanting is; particularly important for intensifying
production through double cropping and would involve the technical agencies
for water delivery, tractor hire services, and the supply of seeds and
fertilizers to meet planting schedules. For the main season crop, land
preparation and nursery sowing would be carried out generally in August/
September followed by transplanting in September/ October. Padi varieties
with a growth maturation period of 120-135 days would be planted and crop
harvest would occur during the dry period of January/February. Where irri-
gation supplies are available for an off-season padi crop, land cultivation
and nursery sowing would be done in March/April with transplanting in
April/May and harvest by July/August.
5.12      Crop Management.  Research data on the most suitable crop varie-
ties and rates of fertilizer application for specific localities within the
project area are limited. Cultural practices would follow DOA general
recommendations based on interim research information (para. 4.21), which
would become available during project implementation. FOA would organize
tractor plowing services to supplement those of private contractors.
Through the Government subsidy scheme farmers currently have access each
year to fertilizers for nursery and field application and to pesticides, all
available through FOA. Extension activities by DOA, with technical support
from the Crop Protection Unit (para. 4.18), would organize farmer group
action to improve control of pests (insects, especially stemborers, and rats)
through integrated chemical measures and improved husbandry standards. The
relatively small size of individual padi fields limits the opportunities for



- 44 -
mechanical harvesting by combine harvesters; hence, in most areas, crop
harvesting operations would continue to be done manually by family labor.
Traditional methods are used for winnowing and sundrying of the threshed
crop before home storage.
Fruits
5.13      Dusun Rehabilitation.  Substantial incremental production of the
popular fruits rambutan, durian and mango would result from a rehabilitation
and replanting program for about 2,025 ha of existing home orchards. Rehab-
ilitation would involve adequate weeding, tree pruning, distribution of free
fertilizer at recommended levels for the first three years, and appropriate
pest and disease control. Replanting of old unproductive trees and of
existing vacant spaces in the orchards with improved budgrafted materials,
would involve some 800 ha or 40% of the total rehabilitation area. Yields
from small mixed orchards are very variable; estimates of present yields and
the yield after rehabilitation and replacement of unproductive trees are
given in Table 5.6. It is estimated that at full development, about 15
years after commencement of rehabilitation measures, the yield increase
would be about 60% above present levels.
Table 5.6: DUSUN AREA, FRUIT YIELDS AND PRODUCTION
(WITH AND WITHOUT PROJECT)
Area              Yield             Production
Without   With    Without    With    Without   With
(ha)             (tons/ha)             (ton)
2,025    2,025      2.6        4.1     5,260    8,300
Fish
5.14      Phasing of Development.  The phasing by area and number of fresh-
water fish ponds to be constructed on farmers' land under the DOF-adminis-
tered subsidy scheme is shown in Table 5.7. Based on existing pond size,
these ponds would average about 0.29 ha and 0.15 ha for the two size
categories of the subsidy scheme (para. 4.19).  Ponds in the aquaculture
scheme would be 0.2 ha in size.



- 45 -
Table 5.7: PHASING OF FRESHWATER FISHPOND DEVELOPRiENT
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    Total
Total Pond Area (ha)
Farmers' Ponds                20      25       30       40      45      160
Aquaculture Schemes            -       -       10       20      20       50
Total                       20      25       40       60      85      210
Number of Ponds
Farmers' Ponds                80      95      115      155     175      620
Aquaculture Schemes            -       -       50      100     100      250
Total                       80      95      165     255      275      870
5.15      Pond Operation.  For all ponds DOF provides a production subsidy
of M$500/pond for the first year of operation, which covers costs for lime
(water pH control), fertilizers for pond feedstock, and fish fry for
stocking. The common carp species Lampam Jawa and Lee Koh are currently
available free of charge from DOF, fry of Chinese Carps which cost M450 each
and Jelawat, priced around M$2.50 each, are obtainable only from commercial
sources. The stocking rate would be about 4,300 fry/ha.
5.16      Production.  It is estimated that pond yields would be about 1.8
ton/ha of fish in the first year rising to about 2.2 ton/ha from year 5.  By
years 10-12 pond deterioration by siltation and bund erosion would cause a
production decline and pond re-excavation would be necessary. Each produc-
tion cycle would be completed in about 11 months so that about every 12th
year farmers could benefit from two harvests in one year. Total annual
production from the project should peak at about 580 tons in 1994, rising
again with subsequent reexcavation. The total production profile at 5 year
intervals over 25 years is indicated in Table 5.8



- 46 -
Tahle 5.Q: FISH pnlND PRODUCTION WITH PROJECT
(tons)
Year              1Q73      1Q87      1992    1Q97    2002    2007   Total
25 Years
Farmers' Ponds       -         220       405    310       350     415      7,790
Aquaculture schemes -           55       110      95      110     150      2,340
Total           -         275       515    405      460      565    10,130
VI. MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, FARM INCOMES AND PROJECT CHARGES /1
Market Prospects
6.01      Rubber.  Malaysia is the world's largest producer and exporter of
natural rubber, accounting for about 45% and 50%, respectively of world
totals in 1980. The country's production doubled between 1960 and 1980,
from 0.8 million tons to 1.6 million tons, almost all of which was exported.
6.02      Demand for all elastomers (natural and synthetic rubber) responds
quickly to changes in aggregate economic activity, but it is quite insensi-
tive to price changes. The rate at which synthetic rubber producers can
adjust their supplies to changes in market demand (through capacity expan-
sion and/or higher utilization of existing capacity), exceeds by far that of
natural rubber producers, who cannot readily shift resources in and out of
rubber production. However, production of natural rubber for the next five
years is adequate to meet demand induced by recent technical and economic
developments, such as the strong market penetration of radial tires that
require more natural rubber and the improvement in the competitive position
of natural rubber vis-a-vis synthetic rubber. In 1980, natural rubber was
estimated to have about 30% share in the world market of elastomers, about
the same as it held in 1977. World demand for elastomers is projected to
grow at 5% p.a. until 1990 which would indicate that natural rubber will
continue to enjoy strong markets. Yet the potential supply of natural
rubber, based on existing acreage and available production technology, is
/1 Paras. 6.01-6.03, 6.07 and 6.09 were adapted from IBRD's Prospects
for Major Primary Commodities, Report No. 814/80, January 1980, and its
updates on June 22, 1981, December 24, 1981, and June 1982.



- 47 -
projected to grow more slowly during this period than in the 1970s, or about
3.8% p.a.  This implies that the share of natural rubber would drop from 30%
in 1980 to 27% in 1990.  To avoid a shortfall of natural rubber during the
1980s, additional investments beyond the targets of existing plans would be
required. The project's incremental production of about 33,000 tons at full
development would represent about 2% of Malaysia's exports in 1980.
6.03      Rice.  Rice production in Malaysia, totalling about 1.3 million
tons in 1980, is consumed domestically, and about 0.2 million tons
additional rice is imported to meet domestic demand of about 1.5 million
tons. In 1980, local production is estimated to supply about 90% of
consumption requirements, or 98% of Peninsular Malaysia's needs and 56% of
Sabah and Sarawak requirements. Over recent years both national production
and consumption of rice have remained roughly constant, with losses of
marginal padi land due to abandonment balanced by increases in yields in
more efficient and better irrigated areas on the one hand, and increases in
population balanced by apparent declines in per capita consumption, at least
in Peninsular Malaysia. Projecting conservative yield increases, output of
new irrigation schemes, some additional abandonment of marginal padi areas,
differential population growth rates for Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah, and
Sarawak (where both population growth rates and rice consumption vary
markedly), and continued slight declines in per capita rice consumption in
all regions, estimates for 1990 are for national production to reach over
1.4 million tons of milled rice, consumption to reach over 1.7 million tons,
and imports to be slightly under 300,000 tons. At full development, the
project would produce an increment of about 14,300 tons of padi, equivalent
to 9,300 tons of rice, or less than 1% of projected national consumption in
1990. Most of the padi produced in the project area is retained for family
consumption. Sales of any padi beyond subsistence requirements are made at
harvest time to LPN, private dealers or to small local rice mills.  There is
a large, well organized network of facilities in Kedah for handling the padi
crop, and no marketing problems are foreseen.
6.04      Fruits.  The main fruit season in Kedah is from June to August.
Much of the production is consumed locally with surpluses marketed as fresh
produce through private traders who have a network of outlets to the larger
towns in Kedah, Penang and North Perak. Trading of fruits between different
regions of the country is considerable since fruit seasons vary between
states and reduces the risks of over production. Nonetheless, in view of
the dusun rehabilitation target of 20,000 ha in the Fourth Malaysia Plan
(1981-85) for Peninsular Malaysia a comprehensive survey of levels of fruit
production and marketing would be undertaken (para. 3.20b).
6.05      Fish.  Farmers are expected to sell most of their production in
the local market and given the area of ponds involved, marketing difficul-
ties are not expected. Commercial buyers from outside the area would boost
demands especially for the more expensive species required by restaurateurs.
The current price of about M$3/kg for common carp fish is expected to remain
stable. The more exotic species can command prices of up to M$20/kg.



- 48 -
Prices
6.06      The calculations for rubber and rice prices are presented in Annex
5, Reference C. The prices for rubber and padi are calculated on the basis
of the Bank's commodity price forecasts for 1982, 1985 and 1990; for rice it
was assumed that the ratio of financial to economic prices established by
the Government in 1981 through its retail, wholesale and falm level price
control/support policies would be maintained. Adjustments have been made
for grade differentials and processing and transport costs. The present and
future economic prices of these crops were derived by calculating the f.o.b.
price for rubber and the c.i.f. price for rice in local currency and working
back to the farmgate, excluding taxes and duties and adjusting domestic
costs by applying specific conversion factors to express all local costs in
border price equivalents. For fish and fruits the economic farmgate prices
were estimated from financial farmgate prices using a consumption conversion
factor Of 0.91. Future prices of fish and fruits are expected to remain at
constant 1982 levels.
6.07      Rubber.  Prices for natural rubber experienced strong cyclical
fluctuations during the past two decades. Natural rubber prices commenced a
long rising trend in 1976 with RSS1 increasing by more than 30% in real
terms to US$1.48/kg. In 1980, the average price reached US$1.66/kg in real
terms, followed by a decline in 1981 to US$1.30/kg. Although prices in 1982
are severely depressed. The Bank projects a rise in real prices in the
1980s (parallel to rises in costs of synthetic rubber production), which
could further stimulate replanting and expansion in acreage. The Bank's
forecasts and the derived prices are as follows:
1985     1990   1995
(in 1982 prices)
RSS1, spot New York            140       162   168
US/kg
drc, financial farmgate        164       182   186
M/kg
drc, economic farmgate         239       280   292
M/kg



- 49 -
6.08       Rice.  In addition to operating a network of rice mills and main-
taining the national rice stockpiles, LPN is responsible for setting pur-
chase prices for a wide range of grades and varieties of padi at the
beginning of each season. The purchase price is generally discounted for
moisture content in excess of 14% and for dirt, empty grains, straw, or
other foreign material. Private mills generally offer prices equal to or
better than the official prices. The purchase price at millgate in 1981 is
M$662/ton for long-grain padi, M$628/ton for medium-grain and M$595/ton for
short-grain. After deductions for moisture, etc., the financial farmgate
price is estimated at M$605/ton.
6.09       The rice produced by the project is expected to be equivalent to
the higher grades of Thai rice. However, since the quality of imported rice
is generally lower, a mixture of 10-15% brokens, for economic analysis the
price of the lower quality has been used. These grades are generally traded
internationally at a price 10% below that of the Thai 5% brokens, for which
the Bank makes long-term projections. For financial and economic analysis,
it is assumed that the milling ratio would be 65%, that the market for
project output would be Kuala Lumpur, and that the farmgate prices would
rise along with the projected world market price. The Bank's forecasts and
derived prices are shown below.
1985     1990   1995
(In 1982 prices)
Thai 5% broken rice, f.o.b.            442       442    435
Bangkok US$/ton
Padi financial farmgate                 674      674    662
M$/ton
Padi economic farmgate                 620       620    609
M$/ton
6.10       Fruits and Fish.  Prices of fish and fruits are conservatively
assumed to remain constant in real terms over the project period.  Based on
the individual crop budgets, these commodities would generate returns suffi-
ciently attractive for smallholders as supplementary enterprises.



- 50 -
6.11      Farmgate fertilizer prices are based on the Bank's long-run price
projections for urea, triple superphosphate and muriate of potash. Finan-
cial prices of other farm inputs are based on data provided by RISDA, DOA,
and DOF personnel in the project area. Economic prices of these inputs were
estimated by applying the conversion factor for agricultural inputs to the
financial price estimates. Details of these estimates are given in Annex 5,
Reference C15.
Farm Incomes
6.12      Farm budgets have been prepared for four representative farms in
the project. Model A has 6.0 ha rubber and 0.2 ha dusun representing the
larger 3% of holdings; and Models B through D represent mixed smallholdings
of rubber, padi and dusun. Model B comprises 1.6 ha rubber under mini-
estate management, 0.6 ha double cropped padi, and 0.2 ha dusun (13% of
holdings). Model C comprises 1.6 ha rubber, 0.6 ha double-cropped padi,
0.2 ha dusun (81% of holdings). Model D comprises 1.6 ha rubber, 0.3 ha
double-cropped padi, 0.2 ha dusun and 0.2 ha fishpond (3% of holdings).
Except for Model A where hired labor would be required, all models would
utilize solely family labor. Annex 2, Tables 1-4 present the farm budgets
for the farm models.
6.13      Estimates of the inputs, wages and other parameters were based on
farm surveys and estimates of Government field staff and the mission during
project preparation and appraisal. Financial labor cost (MS8/day) and con-
tract rates were based on surveys in the project area. Estimates of nonfarm
incomes are mission estimates and are assumed to remain constant with the
project. Household subsistence rice consumption of 120 kg/capita/year
or about 720 kg/family/year is based on the average national consumption in
rural areas. Smallholders pay a variety of land-based taxes to the State,
mainly quit rents. These tax payments are projected to remain constant.
6.14      The present annual family incomes generated by each of the four
farm models range from M$3,200 to M$5,080. These translate into a per
capita income range of US$230 to US$370. The estimated national per capita
income in 1982 is about US$2,000. At full development in 1995, the
projected per capita incomes would be between US$490 and US$800 while the
national per capita income is expected to rise to about US$4,000. Thus,
while most of the project beneficiaries would have incomes above the
absolute poverty line of US$300 per capita, they would still be below the
critical consumption level (CCL of US$1,000), defined as one-fourth of the
GNP per capita. Without the project their income position would be even
worse, with rubber production declining.



- 5 1 -
Table 6.1: SUMMARY FARM BUDGETS
Annual Family Income            Annual Per Capita Income
Future       Future                  Future    Future/a
Farm Model   Present       without       with      Present      without/a  with
------------   (M$)   -----------   _____        (US$)   --- --------
A           5,080        4,120      11,050       370         300         800
B           3,820        3,160       7,990       275         230         575
C           3,820        3,160       6,790       275         230         490
D           3,200        2,720       6,870       230         195         500
/a 1995.
Project Charges
6.15      For rubber, the Government imposes an export tax estimated at 25%
of the projected 1990 prices, a replanting cess of M(10/kg and a research
cess of M4/kg.  At full development in 1995, project production would
generate about M$30 million in increimental annual tax revenues and about M$4
million in incremental cess collections.  Nominal land taxes are collected
by the State and form part of the general revenue; the operation and
maintenance of the irrigation schemes are funded from general state and
federal revenues. In the Kedah Valleys area, irrigation rates are not
generally collected nor is the religious title zakat, especially in the
smaller padi schemes and the inland rubber growing areas. Under the
Government's poverty alleviation strategy, income maintenance loans to
rubber smallholders owning less than 4 ha are provided interest-free and are
repaid over a 15-year period.
6.16       Based on the present values (at 10% discount rate) of project
rent, loan repayment, export taxes and cess collections, the rent recovery
indices for the beneficiaries would range from 28% to 73%. For the total
project, the index is 34%. The cost recovery index for rubber development
would be 81%, while for irrigation and fishpond development it would be
negligible. The cost recovery index of the whole project is 41% (Annex 2,
Table 5). Since all of the project beneficiaries would remain below the CCL,
even in their highest income years, the cost and rent recovery indices seem
appropriate, especially in view of the Government's strong commitment to
poverty alleviation. Moreover, the Government has levied cesses on rubber
exports since 1951 and consequently, the present value of these payments,
although not quantified, would more than offset the replanting grant provided
by the Government.



- 52 -
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      The project would provide for replanting of about 15,100 ha of old
rubber, maintenance until tapping of about 13,200 ha of rubber replanted in
1977-82, construction and rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes covering
8,850 ha, rehabilitation of about 2000 ha of smallholders orchards and
construction and stocking of 210 ha of fresh water fish ponds. Some 20,500
smallholder families would directly benefit from the project. The project
would contribute to the Government's goals of poverty alleviation, increased
exports and reduced dependence on rice imports. The average capital cost in
financial prices, including physical contingencies, is about US$5,100 per ha
and about US$9,300 per family. The incremental annual production of about
33,000 tons of rubber at full development by about 1995 would result in net
annual foreign exchange earnings of about US$48 million while the incremental
output of rice (9,300 tons) would result in net annual foreign exchange
savings of about US$3.5 million (all in 1982 prices). The project would also
provide buildings and equipment for project operations and maintenance,
training, and a wide range of agricultural support services.
7.02      Foreign Exchange.  The unit of account is uncommitted foreign
exchange in the hands of the Government, expressed in terms of local
currency. All tradeable components are valued directly in foreign exchange
converted to local currency at the official exchange rate of M$ = US$0.435
and adjusted for dealer or processing margin, local transport and handling.
Conversion factors for a number of broad categories of goods and services
produced or consumed by the project have been used to express all nontrade-
able inputs and outputs in terms of the unit of account.
7.03      Benefits.  Projected yields and production are discussed in
Chapter 5. Chapter 6 presents the farmgate prices for inputs and outputs,
based on Bank price forecasts for rubber, rice, and fertilizers and mission
estimates for non-traded commodities, such as fish and fruits. Gross
returns, production costs, labor requirements and farm budgets are given in
Annexes 2 and 5, Reference C. Annex 3 summarizes the foregoing information
and gives the expected economic benefits from the project at full
development.
7.04      Distribution of Benefits.  All of the direct project benefits would
accrue to 20,500 smallholder families, about 123,000 people. The small-
holders, over 95% in the target group, have average incomes of about US$280
per capita. With the project, average incomes are expected to be about
US$510 per capita with a range of US$490 to US$800. While these incomes would
take the project beneficiaries above the absolute poverty level, it is
expected that their incomes would still remain below the projected CCL
(US$1,000 per capita).
7.05      Employment Impact.  The annual demand for labor with the project
is about 6.3 million man-days. About 20,500 smallholder families would



- 53 -
provide the total labor supply of 30,800 workers at full development equiva-
lent to 1.5 workers per smallholder family. Assuming 24 work-days per
month, the total available monthly labor supply would be about 739,000
man-days in 1995. Peak monthly demand occurs in January and April at
702,000 man-days and 658,000 man-days, respectively. In view of the
generally tight agricultural labor market in Malaysia, the opportunity cost
wage rate is assumed to be the current agricultural wage of M$8 per day,
M$6.40 per day in border prices. The annual economic cost of labor at full
development would be about M$40 million. By increasing rural incomes the
project would also assist in mitigating rural-urban drift.
7.06       Investment Costs.  The economic capital cost of the project is
about US$130 million. This capital cost estimate includes allowances for
physical contingencies but exclude expected price increases and transfer
payments. The foreign exchange elements are valued at border prices while
conversion factors were applied to local costs net of taxes and duties. The
annual economic incremental O&M costs for the whole project would average
about US$1.7 million annually from 1988 onwards.
7 .07      Development Period. According to the project implementation
schedule, all works would be completed by end-1987 (Figure 3.1). Full agri-
cultural development would be reached in the project area by 1995.
7.08       Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  On the basis of the foregoing
assumptions and a 30-year evaluation period, the overall ERR is 14%. The
smallholder rubber replanting component has an ERR of 16%; the mini-estate
replanting component, 13%; and the rubber maintenance component, 17%. For
the irrigation component, each scheme would be evaluated on its own merits
and should have a minimum ERR of 10% (para. 3.07). The dusun rehabilitation
component has an ERR of 13%; the fisheries component, 12%./1
7.09       About 180 km of access roads in 26 segments, each over 5 km long,
are expected to serve the rubber mini-estates and other agricultural areas
(para. 3.12). Each of these segments would be evaluated on its own merits.
As a guideline, subprojects yielding ERRs of 10% or more will be eligible.
The economic cost of this component comprises about 5% of the total economic
cost of the project. Experience gained during supervision would be helpful in
improving the evaluation process.
/1 The ERR of the fisheries component would decline to 8% if the cost of the
training centers and related facilities are included.



- 54 -
7.10       Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity of the rate of return was
tested to cost overruns, reduction of benefits, and implementation delay.
The analysis was carried out on the total project and on each component.
The results are shown in Table 7.1.
Table 7.1: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Incremental        Incremental
Base   Capital        benefits        benefits (-15%)
case   costs    (-15%)  (2 year    costs    (+15%)
(+15%)               lag)
Total project               14
Rubber smallholder
replanting                16      15         14        13        13
Rubber mini-estate
replanting                13      12         12        11        11
Rubber maintenance          17     16 /a      16        14        15 /a
Irrigation schemes          10 /b
No. 7  Headworks type  12        10         10        10         8
No. 11 Pumping type    11        10         10         9         8
No. 29 Headworks type  13        11         10        10         9
No. 30 Headworks/
pumping type  14       12         11        10        10
No. 31 Headworks type  11         9          9         9         7
Access roads (>5 km)        10 /c
Dusun rehabilitation        13     13         13        12        12
Fishpond construction    12        10         10         9         8
/a Future costs, 1983-87.
/b Minimum of 10% (see paras. 3.07 and 7.08).
/c Minimum of 10% (see 7.09).
7.11       Sensitivity analysis was also used to determine which variables
would be most crucial to the agricultural component. In carrying out the
sensitivity analysis, two measures were developed for each variable tested,
the crossover value and the elasticity. The crossover value is the value
of the variable tested for which NPV discounted at 10% is zero and is a
measure of how much the variable can differ from its likely value before the
project becomes economically nonviable. The crossover value may also be
interpreted as the value of the variable tested, beyond which the economic
rate of return would fall below 10%. The elasticity is defined as the per-
centage change in NPV discounted at 10% with respect to a 1% change in the



- 55 -
variables, at the most likely value of that variable./1 The results are
presented in Annex 3. The likelihood of these critical variations is
discussed below.
(a) Rubber. The smallholder replanting component, with ERR of 16%, is
most sensitive to yield, moderately sensitive to price, and least
sensitive to capital costs and shadow-wage rate. The yield at
full development would have to fall by 30% before ERR declines to
10%. At 13%, the lower ERR of mini-estates reflects the costs of
additional on-farm infrastructure and the often long access roads
needed to develop the areas. Furthermore, the mini-estate program
provides incentives to replant old smallholder rubber which would
otherwise remain unimproved and eventually go out of production
(para. 4.09). The ERR itself is most sensitive to yield, price and
capital cost. A 15% decline in projected yield would make its net
present value approach zero. A 14% drop in market price would make
the component marginally viable while a 44% increase in real cost
would depress ERR to 10%. RISDA's extension and monitoring services
are being strengthened in order to enhance attaining the projected
yields which would be about 80% of the projected yields in
Government's land rehabilitation schemes.
(b) Rice. In the sample pumping scheme with an ERR of 11%, rice is
sensitive to yield, cropping intensity and price. A 10% decline
in one of these variables would make the ERR marginal. These are
unlikely, as in similar completed schemes present yields are
approaching crossover yields and crossover cropping intensity is
already being achieved. Similarly, in the sample headworks scheme
with an ERR of 11%, rice is sensitive to all variables tested.
Based on experiences of the National Small-Scale Irrigation Project
(Loan 1444-MA), most of the schemes are likely to have ERRs over
11%; further, as ERR rises, sensitivity to those variables becomes
less.  Agricultural support services would be improved under the
project to help achieve the yield and intensity projections.
(c) Fruits. This component is sensitive to both yield and price. The
ERR would fall below 10% whenever yield or price fall by 16%.
Supply of fruits is seasonal and prices can fluctuate widely.
Although premium is expected for the improved varieties being
planted, no real increase in price is assumed. The ERR is not
sensitive to capital and labor costs.
(d) Fish. Fish production is sensitive to all variables tested.
A 6% drop in yield would make this component marginally viable.
/1 The elasticity generally changes for movements along the NPV-variable
curve.



- 56 -
Similarly, a 7% decline in price would make the ERR fall below
10%. Further, a capital cost increase in real terms of 19% would
render the NPV zero. These are unlikely as expected yield is
presently being achieved in operating fish ponds and fish prices
have increased in recent years in real terms. In addition, the
project would strengthen DOF's extension services and training to
smallholders.
7.12      Risks.  There are no unusual risks associated with the project, and
those normally associated with project benefits, costs, development period and
implementation delays have been evaluated in the sensitivity analyses.
However, coordination among the implementing agencies would be crucial to
project execution. To reduce the risk of this not occurring, the PD had
already been appointed at the time of appraisal and would participate in the
project negotiations, as did the PD for the recently negotiated Malacca
Agricultural Development project. This is in contrast to two earlier
agricultural development projects (Rompin-Endau Area Development Project, Loan
1957-MA and Trans-Perak Area Development Project, Loan 1960-MA) where the
appointment of the PD was delayed until after project start-up and early
implementation and disbursements have been very slow. The various agencies in
this project have been encouraged to work together effectively throughout the
preparation and appraisal process and this should help implementation
effectiveness. Further, adequate funds for consulting services have been
provided to assist the implementing agencies in carrying out the project
related components.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
points:
(a) DID would submit to the Bank for review and comments, details of
the preparation, design and evaluation of the first five irriga-
tion schemes scheduled for the year 1983 and of all the Langkawi
irrigation schemes before tenders are invited (para. 3.07);
(b) Government would prepare and submit to the Bank for its review
and comments, economic evaluations of the first five access
roads of five km length or more before tenders are invited
(para. 3.12);
(c) consultants engaged under the project would be employed
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.18);
(d) the Government would ensure that the study on the aquaculture
resources of the State of Kedah are completed by March 31, 1984
(para. 3.20a);



- 5 7 -
(e) the Government would submit to the Bank for its review and
comment, the consultant terms of reference for the study on fruit
production and marketing by March 31, 1983 and would ensure that
the study is completed by September 30, 1984 (para. 3.20 b);
(f) the Government would ensure that (i) consultants for the study on
RISDA's financial resources and management are appointed by
March 31, 1983, (ii) that the said study is completed by August 31,
1984, and (iii) that recommendations of the study as agreed upon
between the Goverrnment and the Bank, are implemented according to
a schedule agreed upon with the Bank.
(g) the Government would submit to the Bank for its review and
comment, the consultant terms of reference for the first of
the studies on future agricultural projects, by March 31, 1983
(para. 3.20d);
(h) the Project Director would submit to the Bank, within nine months
of the close of each financial year, the project accounts audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.35);
and
(i) the Government would ensure that adequate staff positions required
for the proper implementation of the project and thereafter for
its operation and maintenance, are duly established as and when
needed and that qualified staff are appointed in a timely manner
to those positions (para. 4.27).
8.02       A condition of effectiveness of the proposed project is the
appointments of an economist and an accounting officer to the staff of the
Project Director (para. 4.04).
8.03       With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$56.9 million, with a 15-year maturity including a
grace period of three years.  The Borrower would be the Government of
Malaysia.



ANNEX 1
-58-                                 Table 1
Page 1
MALAYS LA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
For-                   For-          Foreign
Local  eign   Total  Local  eign  Total  exchange
-- (M$ million) ---  - (US$ million)            M (%)
Rubber Development
Smallholder replanting           16.3   13.4   29.7    7.1   5.8   12.9         45
Mini-estate replanting            7.5    6.0   13.5    3.2   2.7    5.9          45
Mini-estate infrastructure        2.0    1.7    3.7    0.9   0.7    1.6          45
Immature rubber upkeep:
replanted 1977-82              14.3   11.7   26.0    6.2   5.1   11.3          45
Nursery development               0.4    0.2    0.6    0.1   0.1    0.2          40
Income maintenance loan          62.9    -       62.9   27.4   -       27.4       -
Cover crop subsidy                0.9    0.7    1.6    0.4   0.3    0.7          40
Fertilizer subsidy                1.8    1.2    3.0    0.8   0.5    1.3          40
Subtotal                     106.1   34.9  141.0   46.1  15.2   61.3         25
Irrigation Development
Improvement works                 7.8    5.2   13.0    3.4   2.2    5.6         40
New works                         6.8    4.5   11.3    3.0   1.9    4.9          40
Structures                        7.3    5.9   13.2    3.1   2.6    5.7          45
Other works                       1.6    1.1    2.7    0.7   0.5    1.2          40
Farm roads                        7.5    5.1   12.6    3.3   2.2    5.5          40
Subtotal                      31.0   21.8   52.8   13.5   9.4   22.9         41
Access Development
Mini-estate roads                10.7    7.2   17.9    4.7   3.1    7.8          40
Village roads                     1.7    1.1    2.8    0.7   0.5    1.2          40
Subtotal                      12.4    8.3   20.7    5.4   3.6    9.0         40
Dusun Rehabilitation                 1.3    1.0    2.3    0.6   0.4    1.0         40
Fishpond Development
Pond construction                 1.0    0.6    1.6    0.4   0.3    0.7          40
Production materials subsidy   0.3    0.1    0.4    0.2   -             0.2      20
Aquaculture schemes               0.9    0.6    1.5    0.4   0.2    0.6          40
Subtotal                       2.2    1.3    3.5    1.0   0.5    1.5          38
Research and Development            0.6    0.2    0.8    0.3   0.1    0.4          20
Buildings                          20.3    6.7   27.0    8.9   2.9   11.8          25



ANNEX 1
- 59 -                                Table 1
Page 2
For-                 For-          Foreign
Local  eign   Total  Local  eign  Total  exchange
-- (M$ million) ---  - (US$ million) --    (%)
Equipment and Vehicles            2.2   12.3   14.5    1.0   5.3    6.3      85
Consultant Services and
Studies                           5.3    5.7   11.0    2.3   2.5    4.8      43
Training                          0.6    0.5    1.1    0.3   0.2    0.5      43
Land Acquisition                 18.3    -      18.3    8.0   -      8.0      -
Engineering and Supervision       5.2    0.5    5.7    2.3   0.2    2.5       10
Incremental administration
and operation costs            14.9    2.1   17.0    6.5   0.9    7.4      12
Base Cost                  220.4   95.3  315.7   96.2  41.2  137.4      30
Physical contingencies           14.C   10.6   24.6    6.1   4.6   10.7      43
Expected price increases         82.6   23.5  106.1   35.9  10.2   46.1      22
Total Project Cost         317.0  129.4  446.4  138.2  56.0  194.2      29
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan        -      2.1    2.1    -      0.9    0.9    100
Total Financing Required   317.0  131.5  448.5  138.2  56.9  195.1       29



MALAYSlA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Buildings
Units                                                             Amount MS  000                                 Total
Unit cost                                     Project                    Total                                           Project                         cost
MS '000      DID  RISDA  DOA  FOA  FAMA  director  MARDI  DOF    no.    DID  RISDA    DOA                FOA    FAMA  director DOF   MARDI           M$ 000
Offices                              L.S.          8      1      6                    1                1      17    320      195  1,535                       105/a   108                 2,263
Stores/garage/shed                variable                      21                                            21                   1,230                                                  1,230
KGTs (extension)                     122                              16                                      16                            1,945                                         1,945
Subcenters                           148                             12                                       t2                            1,776                                         1,776
Staff quarters
Class D                               65                                              1                1       2                                -              65        65                  130
E                              50           3             6    6       1                        2      18     150              300     3o)      50               100                  900
F                              45           8      1    21   51                                 1      82     360       45    945  2,295                          45               3,690
G                              40          17            10    -                                6      32    680               400                               240                1,320
N                              30          35      6    23   12                                 4      80  1,050       180     690     360                       120               2,400
I                              25                 20                                            6      26             500        -                               150                  650
Workshop                          variable         I             1                                             2  1,750               160                                                 1,910                         0,
Mobile office                        8.5                        33                                            33                      280                                                    280
Group processing center             11.8               240                                                   240           2,832                                                          2,832
Smokehouses                       variable                2                                                    2           1,650                                                          1,650
Hatchery                                                                                               1       1                                                        250                  250
Laboratory/ponds renovations                                                                           1       1                                                        190                  190
Aquaculture tratning center          L.S.                                                              2       2                                                        890                  890
Drying floors                     variable                       I            1                6               9                       40              54                       22           116
Training center (RATC)            variable                       4                                             4                   2,445                                                  2,445
Agric. market center                 L.S.                                     I                                1                                       67                                     67
Stalls for marknt centers            L.S.                                   20                                20                                      its                                    115
Total                                                                                                        4,310  5,402  8,025  6,676         286      170   2,158      22       27,049
/a Includes the sum MS 15,000 for renovating office space in the Department of Land and Mines for IADP team.
C5>



MALAYSIA
KEDAh VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment and Vehicles
Units                                                           Amount M$ '000                               Total
Unit price                                    Project                   Total                                          Project                       cost
M$ '000    DID  RISDA  DOF  FOA   DOA  director  MARDI  FAMA   no.             DID  RISDA   DOF    FOA    DOA   director  MARDI  FAMA    M$'000
Car                                   20        1     -            I              1                        3      20                     20               20                           60
Utility vehicle 4x4                   35        7    22        3   2      21      1         2       1      59    245    770   105        70    735        35        70    35        2,065
Truck 5-ton                           50        1      7                   4                               12     50    350                     200        -                          600
Truck 3-ton                           40                       2                            2       1       5                    80                                 80    40          200
Truck w/crane                         94        2                                                           2    188                                                                   188
Tractor 35 HP                         30        1                          6                                7      30                           180                                    210
Tractor 60 HP                         40               9                                                   9             360                                                          360
Tractor 65 HP                         50                                   3                                3                                   150                                    150
Tractor implements                variable                               L.S.                            L.S.                                    60                                    60
Trailer 3-ton                          8                                   5                                5                                    40                                     40
Power tiller                      variable      2      3                                                    5      10     30                                                            40
Combi                                 20              11      2                   1                       14             220    40                        20                          280
Minibus                           variable             1                   4                                5             50                    160                                    210
Bus 44-seat                           65                                   1                                1                                    65                                     65
Roller 5-ton                          60               2                                                    2            120                                                           120
Motor grader 125                      80               3                                                    3            240                                                           240
Water pumps (portable)            variable   30   355          1          15                12           413    221       48    15               75                 42                 401
Weighing platforms                variable          340                                                  340             374                                                           374                1
Knapsack sprayer                  variable          670                                     17           687              50                                          2                 52                o
Power sprayer                     variable            21                  75                              96              63                    225                                    288
Pumps 10 cu secs                     105       30                                                          30  3,150                                                                3,150
Chain saw                         variable          638                   66                             704             543                     80                                   623
Bush cutter                          0.51           496                                                  496             252                                                          252
Generator                             15                       2                                            2                    30                                                     30
Submersible pumps                    3.5                      2                                             2                     7                                                      7
Audio visual equipment               L.S.                   L.S.          L.S.                           L.S.                   112             120                                    232
Refrigerator                      variable                    4                                            4                      8                                                      8
Motor blower                           1                                                     9              9                                                        9                   9
Pedestrian tractor                variable                                 3                 6             9                                     25                 54                  79
Workshop equipment                variable   L.S.                         L.S.                           L.S.   683                              75                                    758
Lab. equipment                         "       L.S.                       L.S.                                    50                             80                                    130
Soil survey equipment                                                     L.S.                                                                   70                                     70
Sprinkler system                      L.S.                                L.S.                                                                   30                                     30
Water tank                        variable                                L.S.                                                                  225                                    225
Current meters                        1.3       4                                                          4       5                                                                     5
Plan printing machine                 15        1                                                           1      15                                                                   15
Photostatic machine                    9        1                                                           1      9                                                                     9
Stenciling machine                     3        1                                                           1      3                                                                     3
Miscellaneous tools and
equipment                           L.S.    L.S.                                        L.S.                    25                            105                        18         148
Office equipment and furniture    L.S.    L.S. L.S.   L.S.                L.S.   L.S.    L.S.  L.S.   L.S.        40      50   229    200    345          46                2          912
Spare parts e 15% of
capital cost                                                                                                   704    521    60        14    405        11        39    14        1,768             lb
Total                                                                                                   5,448  4,041   686    304  3,450           132       296   109       14,466



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultant Services, and Studies
Phasing man-months (m/m)
Unit   Pre-                                   Total
Category  Qty.  Unit   cost  project  1983 1984 1985 1986 1987    cost
(M$)                                        (M$'000)
Consultants
DID            Local      892   m/m    5,000   344       174  140  140   70   24    4,460
Foreign    20   m/m   20,000    16          4    -    -    -    -         400
RISDA          Local       15   m/m    5,000       -        8    7    -    -    -         75
Foreign    35   m/m   20,000       -       15   20    -    -    -         700
Subtotal   Local      907   m/m              344      182  147  140   70   24    4,535
Foreign    55   m/m               16       19   20    -    -    -    1,100
Studies
MOA            Local      100   m/m    5,000       -      50   50    -    -    -         500
DOF            Local       50   m/m    5,000       -      25   25    -    -    -         250
EPU            Local      280   m/m    5,000       -       -   40   60  100   80    1,400
Foreign   160   m/m   20,000       -        -   20   35   50   55    3,200
Subtotal   Local      430   m/m                -       75  115   60  100   80    2,150
Foreign   160   m/m                 -       -   20   35   50   55    3,200
Total       Local   1,337   m/m              344      257  262  200  170  104    6,685
Foreign   215   m/m                16      19   40   35   50   55    4,300
10,985



- 63 -                                        ANNEX 1
Table 5
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
(M$ '000)
Pre-
project      1983     1984      1985      1986      1987     Total
Rubber Development
Smallholder replanting                       2,901    4,611    6,053    7,377   8,765    29,707
Mini-estate replanting                       1,310    2,105    2,740    3,328   3,968    13,451
Mini-estate infrastructure                     817       682       753      785      662      3,699
Immature rubber upkeep:
replanted 1977-82                          8,124    6,312    5,063    3,870   2,607    25,976
Nursery development                            280       283         -        -        -        563
Income maintenance loan                      8,705   11,031   13,018   14,669  15,517    62,940
Cover crop subsidy                             299       313      338       338   3 352       1,640
Fertilizer subsidy                             509       705      624       592      603      3,033
Subtotal                           -    22,945   26,042   28,589   30,959  32,474   141,009
Irrigation Development
Improvement works                   110      3,114    3,160    3,260    2,903        405    12,952
New works                           384      2,113    2,600    2,590    2,280   1,312    11,279
Structures                        1,011      2,636    2,890    3,110    2,140   1,420    13,207
Other works                         300        675       510      620       443      137     2,685
Farm roads                          332      3,260    3,250    3,250    1,550   1,002    12,644
Subtotal                       2,137    11,798   12,410   12,830    9,316   4,276    52,767
Access Development
Mini-estate roads                            4,160    7,900    3,540    2,000        320    17,920
Village roads                                  650       860      800       450       40     2,800
Subtotal                           -      4,810    8,760    4,340    2,450        360    20,720
Dusun Rehabilitation                     -       450       450       450      450      450      2,250
Fishpond Development
Pond construction                              210       248       300      405      457      1,620
Production materials subsidy                    40        47        82      128      138        435
Aquaculture schemes                              -         -       290      580      580      1,450
Subtotal                           -        250      295       672    1,113   1,175       3,505
Research and Development                         100       150       175      200      225        850
Buildings
RISDA                                        1,172    2,000    1,168        590      472     5,402
DID                                          1,440    2,180        640       50        -     4,310
DOA                                            855    1,855    4,700        615        -     8,025
FOA                                          1,870    2,095    1,685    1,026          -     6,676
DOF                                            415    1,164       579         -        -     2,158
MARDI                                           11        11         -        -        -         22
FAMA                                             -       286         -        -        -        286
Project Director                                95        75         -        -        -        170
Subtotal                           -      5,858    9,666    8,772    2,281        472    27,049



-64 -                                          ANNEX 1
Table 5
Page 2
Pre-
project      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      Total
Equipment and Vehicles
RISDA                                         1,219        932    1,353       394      143      4,041
DID                                              613    3,542          -    1,293         -     5,448
DOA                                              665       485    1,960        320       20     3,450
FOA                                              304         -         -         -        -        304-
DOF                                              233       325       128         -        -        686
MARDI                                            188        88        20         -        -        296
FAMA                                              89        20         -         -       -         109
Project Director                                  83        49         -         -        -        132
Subtotal                            -      3,394    5,441    3,461    2,007         163    14,466
Consultant Services and Studies
RISDA                                           340       435          -         -       -        775
DID                                2,040        950       700       700       350      120      4,860
DOF                                    -         125       125         -         -       -        250
MOA                                     -        250       250         -         -        -       500
EPU                                     -          -      600    1,000    1,500   1,500         4,600
Subtotal                        2,040      1,665    2,110    1,700    1,850   1,620    10,985
Training
DID                                               70        31        7          2       -         110
DOA                                                -         5        5        170     230        410
FOA                                               15        62     175         123       15       390
DOF                                                8        45      45          48      47         193
Subtotal                            -         93       143      232        343      292      1,103
Land Acquisition
DID                                           6,490    1,260          -          -       -      7,750
DOA                                              200       150        -          -        -       350
FOA                                              480      420         -          -       -        900
FAMA                                               -        80       -           -        -        80
PWD                                           8,000    1,250          -          -        -     9,250
Subtotal                            -    15,170    3,160          -          -        -    18,330
Engineering and Supervision
DID                                   107       854       844       705       481      214      3,205
FOA                                     -        140       105        84        51       -        380
PWD                                     -        551       876       434       245       36     2,142
Subtotal                          107      1,545    1,825    1,223         777      250      5,727



- 65-                                                 ANNEX 1
Table 5
Page 3
Pre-
project      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987     Total
Incremental Administration and
Operation Costs
RISDA                                           368       676       871       930      930     3,775
DID                                             117       324       501       531      531      2,004
DOA                                             355       595    1,115    1,420   1,530        5,015
FOA                                              76       191       299       359      367      1,292
DOF                                              35       165       211       226      225        862
MARDI                                           106       195       266       314      314      1,195
FAMA                                              -        45        60        60       60        225
PWD                                               -         -         -       500      712      1,212
DLM                                             387       144         -         -        -        531
Project Director                                149       178       191       192      192        902
Subtotal                            -      1,593    2,513    3,514    4,532   4,861    179013
Base Cost Estimate                 4,284    69,671   72,695   65,958   56,278  46,618   315,774
Physical Contingencies                   -      5,068    6,134    5,534    4,499   3,351    24,586
Expected Price Increases                  -     8,914   18,246   24,629   27,240  27,054   106,110
Total Project Cost              4,284    83,680   97,345   96,121   88,017  77,023   446,470



- 66 -                                 ANNEX I
Table 6
MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Cost         Proposed   Disburse-
Total  Foreign  allocation    ment
- (US$ million) -----             (x)
Civil Works
Irrigation works                             22.9      9.4
Buildings                                     11.8     2.9
Access roads                                   9.0      3.6
Expected price increase                       13.5     4.0
Subtotal                                  57.2    19.9        25.0          44
Rubber Replanting and Maintenance
Rubber replanting                             18.8     8.5
Immature rubber upkeep                        11.3     5.1
Expected price increase                       11.4     4.0
Subtotal                                  41.5    17.6        18.1          44
Equipment and Vehicles                           6.3      5.3
Expected price increase                        1.4      1.1
Subtotal                                   7.7      6.4        6.4          /a
Consultant Services, Studies and Training
Consultant services and studies                4.8     2.5
Overseas Training                              0.2     0.2
Subtotal                                   5.0      2.7        5.0         100
Others /b
Mini-estate infrastructure                     1.6     0.7
Nursery                                        0.2     0.1
Income maintenance                            27.4     -
Cover crop/fertilizer subsidy                  2.0     0.8
Dusun rehabilitation                           1.0     0.4
Fishponds/Aquaculture Schemes                  1.5      0.5
Research and development                       0.4     0.1
Local training                                 0.3     -
Land acquisition                               8.0     -
Engineering and supervision                    2.5      0.2
Incremental administration and opera-
tion costs                                  7.4      0.9
Subtotal                                  52.3      3.7        _
Unallocated
Physical contingencies                        10.7     4.6
Remaining price increases                     19.8      1.1
Subtotal                                  30.5      5.7        1.5           -
Front-End Fee                                    0.9      0.9        0.9    Amount due
Total                                    195.1    56.9        56.9         (28)
/a  Disbursement is 100% of foreign expenditure, 100% of foreign expenditure ex-
factory, or 80% of imported items procured locally.
/b No disbursement would be made against these items.



ANNEX 1
Table 7
67 -
MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD fiscal                                 Disbursement profiles (cumulative %)
year and      Accumulated disbursements         Country
semester        US$ million        %           subsector /a         Region /b
1983
2nd               1.5            2.6               1                3.9
1984
1st               2.2            3.9              -                   -
2nd               4.4            7.7               6               15.0
1985
1st               9.3           16.3              -                   -
2nd              14.9           26.2              16               30.4
1986
1st              21.9           38.5              -                   -
2nd              28.4           49.9              31               48.3
1987
1st              34.9           61.3              -                   -
2nd              41.4           72.8              48               66.0
1988
1st              46.7           82.0              -                   -
2nd              51.9           91.2              64               81.2
1989
1st              56.9          100.0              -                   -
2nd              56.9          100.0              80               92.6
/a  For past and ongoing area development and irrigation projects in
Malaysia.
/b Area development projects.



MALAY%IA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model A:  Robber, 6.0 ha; DUR ..   0.2 ha
Year    Year   'Year    Year    Year    Year    Year            Year    Year    Year        Y        Y        Year    Year    Year        Year    Year       Year     Y         Year    Year      Year    Year       Year     Yer
1        2        3        4        5        6         7        8        9         10       11       12        13       14       15       16        17       18        19       20       21       22        23       24       25
WEth Project
Sales:  Rubbar                                 -        -        -        -         -        -   6,570   9,500  12,170  13,890  15,590  16,700  17,260  17,590  17,810   17,260  18,930  18,370  17,810  16,700  16,140  15,590  15,030  14,470   13,920
Frait /a                         1,260       755      983    1,020    1,055   1,140    1,240    1,290    1,395   1,500    1,605   1,755    1,810    1,910   2,015    2,015   2,015   2,015   2.015    2,015   2,015    2,015   2,015   2,015   2,015
Subtotal                              1,260      755      985   1,020   1,055   1,140   7,810  11,790  13,565  15,390  17,195  18,455  19,070   19,500  19,825  19,275  2e,945  20,385  19,825   18,715  18,155  17,605  17,045  16,485  _5,935
N.ofara Inrcme /b                            500      500      500       500      500      500      500                Soo      500      500      500 SUo5300 Y00                       500      500      500       SEE      500      500       500      500      500       500
Total beceiFto                        1,760    1,255   1,485   1,520    1,555   1,640   8,310  12.290  14,065  15,890  17_695  18,955  19,570  20,000  20,325  19,775  21,445  20,885  20,325  19,215  18,655  18,105  17,545  16,985  1 6_435
Expe-dit::res
Robber repla-ttg  -t                     14,010   2,310    2,220   2,580    2,460    2,160
Leaa:  RFplanting grnt /Ic             10,375   2,965   2,965   2,220   2,225   1,480
Net replanting coat                       3,635    (655)   (745)    360          235       680
Duaotn -ehabilitation  root                  130       45       45
Lear:  Sab.ldy /d                         130        45       45
Net rehabilittlo. coat                         0        0        0
Maintenance cart:  REbber /e                   -        -        -         -        -        -   2,940    2,010    2,010    2,010    2,010   2,010    2,010   2,010    2,010    2,010    2,580    2,580    2,580    2,580    2,580    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200
Duro.                    -        -        -       40        45       45       45        45       45       45        43       45       45       45        45       45       45        45       45       45        45       45       45        45       45
Rubb-r tapping/procesalng                    240        -        -         -        -        -.   1,680    3,270   4,080    4,500   4,500   4,080   4,080   4,080    4,080   4,080    3,930    3,930    3,540   3,540    3,540   2,790   2,790    2,790    2,460
Land taxes /f                                 30       30       30       30        30       30       90       90        90       90       90        90       90       90       90        90       90       90        90       90       90        90       90       90        90
Total Expenditures                    3,905     (535)   (625)    430         310      755   4,755    5,415   6,225   6,645   6,645   6.225   6,225    6,225   6,223    6,225    6 645   6 645   6,255    6,255   6,255    4,125   4,125    4,125                       _
Family i-o=e                               (2,145)  1,790   2,110    1,090    1,245          885   3,555   5,875   7,840   9,245  11,050   12,730  13,345  13,775  14,100   13,550   14,800  14,240  14,070  12,960  12,400  13,980  13,420   12,860   12,640
PFr capita I-co-e (US$) /g                    (150)     130       150       80       90       65      260       425      570      670      S00       920      970    1,000    1,020       980    1,070    1,030    1,020       940       900    1,015      970       930      915
Wlthout Project
Family locome                               5,080   4,980   4,840   3,720   4,635   4,545   4,505   4,425    4,365   4.165   4,125   4,065   3,945   3,895    3,845   2,295   2,295   2,295    2,295   2,295    2,295    2,295    2,295   2,295   2,295
PFe  caFit. 0--cr (USS) /g                     370      360      350      340       335      330      325       320      315      300       300      295      285      280       280      165       165      165      165       165      165      165       165      165      165
Incre=ental Family I0come                     (7,465) (3,190) (2,730) (3,630) (3,390) (3,660)    (950)  1,440    3,475   5,080   6,925   8,665   9,400   9,880  10,233   11,255  12,505  11,945  11,775  10,665  10,105  11,685  11,125  10,565  10,345
Ia Ioclodiog valor of ho=e co-ru-pti-o.
/b rrissron esti=ate.
77  Over rio years, totalling MS 3,700/ha.
7T   Tree felling, frncing aod fe-tiliter and pe-ticideR  for three years.
77  I-cl.dig co.t of tools i yF.. 7.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               lx
7l  Rubber years 1-6, 9S 5/ha, yeers 7-25, 9. 14.8/ha; D-400, F$ 9.9/ha.
T    000,00100 e fa=ily size of sio.



MIALAYSIA
KEDAP VALLEYS AGRICU7LTURAL DEVELOFPMEN PROJECT
Doabie-eropped Padi. 0.6 ha;  -na, 0.2 ha
(ff5 In 1982 pr-i-e)
Yea     Year   Year    Year   Year   Yea          Yea     Year   Yea       Year    Yea     Year      Year     Year   Year    Yaar        Year  Year       Year    Y.ar    Year    Year    Year    Yea       Yea
1       2       3       4        5       6        7       a       9        IS      11       I2       13        14      15      16        17          19  19       2       21       22      7Y      24       25
Sirb Praj-c
Re-ipts
Sai1-    Rubber1,450  2,490  3,430  3,930  4,9    4,0                                                                                  ,9      490      490    ,4         ,4       4,900111 4,600   4,15     4,10  3,960    370   3503,2             327
PadI                              675      675     075  1,345  1,345  1,340   1,335  1,322   1,320   1315  1,315    1,315    1,315               1,315   1,3151,  315   1,3,15 1,315'  ,.315   1,31    1315   1315   I,315   1,15   1313
FeatI                           1260       755     985  1,020   1,053   1,140  1,740   1,290  1,395  1,500  1,6055   1,53                 1,1   1910  2,01    7,015   2 015 2,01    705  201  25 2                 2,'5 2     2015  1015   205
Subtotal                             1,935  1430  1,460  2.3 65  2,400  3.930   5,033   6,045  6.543   7,105  7,520    7,920   7,965   8,125  8.170  9,670    8 Q230  293   7,480  7.340  7J190  7,040  6.890  6,7 50  6.600
Value.of aoba seteaca pedi lb               740     740      740     740     740     740      740     735      735     730     730       730      730       730     2     30 00       70    70        70   30          730     730      730     730     730
Mlai-tseat   renta  Ic                                                                        710     710      710     710     70        70       710       710     710      710      70    70        70      710
MinS-etate Saber Seosa                   1,090      920      615    460      335
joos  saietedar        .laa  /4          1,200  1, 200  1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200
SNRar-  ioose /e                            500     500      500     500     500     50  500      500      500     500     500      500       500      500      300      700      300     500    500      500      500     500So        500     500      500
Total Recipta                        5 465  4 790  4.705  5 2 6   5,1 756 ,370  7,009   7,990  if490  9,043   9.460    9,760   9,905  10,063 10,110 10,610   10,17029 87   9 420  9,280  8,470  9.270  9,120  7,980  7,830
Robber repiaetiag cot                    5,495      505     610      705     655    930
Lass :   eplautieg gran   0f           3 950      995    995    985    985         790
Nat replanting coa                       1,545   (4805   (3752  (280)  (330)   140
Oua...     blletl    -ot                    130      45       45                        -
Le..a;   Sabeidy  g                      130       45      4~5 
bet r-habilitattaa cost                       -           - --
-aoeaccst:  Ro0bbe  /h6                                                        -      180     190     180      550     550       550      550       550     750     690l      690    690      690     690      370     320     320      020     320
D...                   -        -              40       45      45      45       45      45       45      45       45        45        45      45      45        45    45        45      45      45       45      45       45      45
Padi produoton coatL                        305     315     020      495     495    495       495     495     495    495       495       49q5     495       495     495    495        495   495    4 95       495    495    495        495      493     495
L..aa:  Perlleer aubaSdy Li              125      135     145     145    215       715     215    215       215      215     215      215       715       215     215      215      215   215      215    215       215    215       215      215     215
Rat padi produottoc cost                    190     195      190     260     290     280      790     280      280     780     200       280      290       200     780      290      790   700       290     790      290     290      290     790     290
Laed tao-  -od others                        15      15       15      1   15      15  is       70      30       30      30      30        30        30       30      30       30        30)    30      30       30      30      30       30      30       30
Tar.1 Enrendireren                   1,740    (2859   (180)      55       10     490     535      535     535     905      905      905       905      905    905  1,045   1,045 1.045  1,045  1,045              675      675    6t75    675       675
Faeily  tcn   before  lone
r-caYra-o                                3,725  5,075  4,995  5,710   5,165  0,990  6,470  7,455  7,955  9,140  6.555   9,955   9,000   9,160  9,205  9,565   9,125  8,925  9,375  8,235  7,745  7,595  7,445  7,305  7,155
L..aa:Ltou  rapay .et480                                                                                    480      460     480       480      400       480  40  480  49          080   400       000     400      490     480
Eoc-ssrepla-tleg cost _Lk130                                                                         130      130     130       130      130       130     130    ISO        130    130      125
Fasily ia-os after I...
repay-eo                                 3,725  5,075  4,985  5,210   5,1365  0,990   6,470   6,8405  7,345  7,530  7,945   8,7455   8,7690   9,550  9,595  8,955   8,515 8,2915  7,730   7,755  7,265  7,1515  7,445  7,305  7,1055
Per capita  Recose (us$) /0                   270     370      355     390     375    430       470      495     530     545      575      595       910      620      025     630       615    593      565     560     525    515       540      530     520
With-ot Pro lec
F-nily i-co-                                3,920  3,730  3,710  3,690  3,520  3,505  5,500  3,335  3,310  3,190  3,165   3,145   3,135    3,115  3,045  3,230    3,730 3,250  9,230   3,230  3,230  3,730  3,230  3,230   9,79 0
Per, capita  Sron   (000) /1                  275    270       270     265    253       255     755      740     240     230      250      230       225      775      220     235       235   235      235      735     255      235     235    735       233
lce etlFasily Encase                     (95   1,345  1.175  1,520   1.645  7,385  2.970  3,510  4.035  4,340  4,8                  5,j9Q    5,265    5,435  5,550  5,725    %28  4985~7   4,540  4525  4035  3.885  4,715  4,075  3,925
-aIotuI5 -sirof ho. -e un neption,
6 At the raeo 20 kg of  i-  per  -apira furaEsl-fae
7WAr the rate of H$ 37peh p  pe-   enh      iaot-ed after-          priu  date far payeot p-iad uf   oos   -ai,,te.ance  1oo.
Td  Aetrh  rare ef 87 100 Per fasily per aunth, payable dariog years 8 to 22 a i.  i iteret.
I.  mtaatoo  -utisate.
7?0crnn   sr  totalling 935,645/ha, Re-iadieg  --oe  crp sabnidy af ff0 215/ha for yes  1.
Sees"  fLieg, tenadSrRternd pesticiden  for thre   year.
/h  N-  uf fortileer aabidy af 8$ 230/ha /yea  foryear  7-9.
/1  Ire, 99 hg; basal  sin, 199 kg;  -od ---oph.a, 10 kg per hs per a.aso. Ian Roll appiio-tion)
Foerubber ur ff3 5/ha_for year   1-6 aed ff3 4.8/ba furyer  7 oueada; far padi, ff5 5/ba~; asd for  Wnsu  KO 9.9/ha.
k    1' ,,69ppbl.ie la et- free frue year 8 to yea.1.



MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model C: Rubber, 1.6 ha; Double-cropped PodS, 0.6 ha; DOusu, 0.2 h.
(M$ in 1982 prices)
Year    Year   Ye        Yar   Year   Year Year   Year   Year   Yea    Year    Yea                Year Year Year Year   Year   Ye                 Ye      Year   Year    Yea      Yer    Year    Year
1        2       3       4       5       6        7       8       9       10      11      12      i3      14      15      16      17      18      19      20      21      22      23      24      25
With ProJect
Receipts
Sales:  Ruhber                              -        -       -       -       -       -   1,460  2,240  2,950  3,560  4,010  4,300  4,460  4,550  4,600  4,550  3,860  3,770  3,710  3,620  3,530  3,420  3,270  3,14(0  3,060
Padi                             675      675    675  1,345  1,345   1,340    1,335  1,325  1,320  1,315  1,315  1,315  1,315  1,315   1,315  1,315  1,315   1,315   1,315  1,315  1,315   1,305  1,315  1,315   1,315
Fr-it /a                       1,260      755    985  1,020  1,055  1,140    1,240  1,290  1,395  1,500   1,605  1,755   1,810  1,910  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015
Subtotal                           1,935   1,430  1,660  2,365  2,400  2,480   4,035  4,855  5_665  6.375  6,930  7,370  7,585  77757,930  7,880  7,190  7,100  7,040  6,950  6,860  6,750  6,600  6,470  6,390
Value of subsistence padi /b              740      740    740    740    740    740          740    735    735    730    730    730    730    730    730    730    730               730    730    730    730    730    730    730    730
Inreme maintenaece leoa  /c             1,200   1,200  1,200  1,200  1,200  1,200
Nonfar-  income /d                        500      500    500    500    500    500          500    500    500    500    500    500    500    500    500    500    500    500    500    500    500    500    500    550                       500
Total Receipt.                     4,375   3,870  4,100  4,805  4,840  4,920   5,275  6,090  6,900  7,605  8,160  8,600  8,815  9,005  9,160  9,110  8,420  8,330  8,270  8,180  8,090  7,980  7,830   L,700  7,620
Expenditures
Robber replanting cort                 3,280       530    665    705    670    655
Lena:  Replantiag grant /e           4,295       985    985    985    985    790
Net replanting east                   (1,015)   (455)  (320)  (2N0)  (315)  (135)
Dusun rehabilitation cost                 130       45      45
Less:  Subsidy /f                       130       45      45
Net rehabilitation coat                     -        -       -
Maintenance coat:  Robber                   -        -       -       -       -       -      405     165    165    535    535    535    535    535    535            535    520       520    520    520    520        150    150      150     150
ODs..                 -        -       -      40      45      45       45      45      45      45      45      45      45      45       45      45      45      45      45      45      45      45      45      45      45
Padi preduction cost                      305      315    325    495    495    495          495    495    495    495    495    495    495    495    495    495    495    495    495    495    495    495    495                      495    495
Less:  Fertilizer subeidy /h            125      135    145    215    215    215          215    215    215    215    215    215    215    215    215    215    215    215    215    215    215    215    215    215    215
Net padi productioe  cent                 180      180    180    289    280    280          280    280    280    280    280    280    280    280    280             280    280    280    280    280    280    280    280    280              280
Land taees A water charge. /i              15       15      15      15      15      15       30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30       30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30
Total Expenditurer                  (820)   (260)  (125)    55          25    205       760    520    520    890    890    890    890    890    890    890    875    875    875    875    875    505                    505     505     505
Faeily income before loan
repayment                               5,195   4,130  4.225  4,750  4,815  4,715   4,515  5,570  6,380  6,715  7,270  7,710  7,925  8,115  8,270  8,220  7,545  7,455  7,395  7,305  7,215  7,475  7,325  7,195  7,115
Le.a:  Loso repaymeet /c                    -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480                       -       -
Family incoee after loan
repayment                               5,195   4,130  4,225  4,750  4,815  4,715   4,515  5,570  5,900  6,235  6,790  7,230  7,445  7,635  7,790  7,740  7,065  6,975  6,915  6,825  6,735  6,995  6,845  7,195  7,115
Per capita inco.e (us$) /1                  375      300    305    345    350    340          325    405    430    450    490    525    540    555             565    560    510       505    500    495    490    505    495          520     515
Without Project
Family income                             3,820   3,730  3,710  3,690  3,520  3,510   3,500  3,335  3.310  3,190  3,165  3,145  3,125  3,115  3,045  3,230  3,230  3,230  3,230  3,230  3,230  3,230  3,230  3,230  3,230)
Per capita income (US$) /1                  275      270    270    270    255    255          255     240    240    230    230        230    225       225    220    230    230        230    230    230    230    230    230          230    230
I-cremental Family lncome                   1,375      400    515  1,060  1,295  1,205   1,015  2,235  2,590  3,525  4,105  4,085  4,320  4,520  4,745  4,510  3,835  3,745  3,685  3,595  3,50   3,765  3,615  3,965  3,885
/a I-nluding value of hbae comsuaption.
7b At the rate of 120 kg of rice per capita for a family of six.
T7   At the rate of MS 100 per family per .onth, payable during Years 9 - 23 at no inter-at.
7S Mirsion estimate.
/e  Over six years totalling M$ 5,645/ha, including cover crop subridy of M$ 215/ha for year 1.
7T   Tree felling, fecing and fertilizer and pesticides for three years.
Tj&  Net for fertilizer subsidy of M$ 230/hb/year for yearn 7-9.
/h  Urea, 99 kg; banal mix, 198 kg; and ammophos, 10 kg per hb  per season (at full application).
7i  For robber at MS 5/ha for years 1-6 and M$ 4.8/ha for years 7 onwards; for padi, M$ 5/ha; and for Dusue MS 9.9/ha.
7l Asruming a fanily siae of six.



MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm  Hodel D,  Rubber, 1.6 ha; Double-Cropped Padi; 0.3 ha;
Du-ne, 0.2 ha; Fishpond 0.2 ha
(9$ in 1982 prices)
Year    Year   Year   Year   Year   Year    Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year
1        2       3       4       5       6        7       8       9       10      11      12      13      14      15      16      17      18      19      20      21      22      23      24      25
With ProJect
Receipts
Sales:  Rabber -                                     _       -       _       _       _   1,460  2,240  2,950  3,560  4,010  4,300  4,460  4,550  4,600  4,550  3,860  3,770  3,710  3,620  3,530  3,420  3,270  3,140  3,060
Fadi                               -        -       -    300    300    300         295    295    295    295    290    290    290    290            290    290    290    290    290    290    290    290    290             290    290
Froit /a                      1,260       755    985  1,020  1.055  1,140    1,240  1,290  1,395  1,500  1,605  1,755  1,810  1,910  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015  2,015
Fish fi                        1,155    1,220  1,350  1,450  1,450  1,450    1,450  2,900  1,385  1,320  1,255  1,190  1,255  1,385  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  1,450  2,840   1,320  1,255  1,190  1,255
Sabtotal                           2,413    1,975  2,335  2,770  2,805  2,890   4,445  6,725  625  6,675  7,160   7,535 7,815  8,135  8,355  8,305  7,615  7,523  7,465   7,375  8,675  7,045  6,830  6,635  6,620
Value of aabsite-ce padi /b              710      710    710    740    740    740          740    735    735    730    730    730    730    730    730    730    730    730    730    730    730    730    730    730    730
Income oaintenance loan /c              1,200   1,200  1,200  1,200  1,200  1,200
Nonfarm incose /d                         500      500    500    500    500    500          500    500    500    500    500    500    500    300    300    500    500    500    500    500    500    500                     500     500    500
Total Receipts                     4,82    4385  4,745  5,210  5,245  5,330   5,685  7,960  7,260  7,905  8,390  8,765  9,045  9,365  9,585  9,535  8,845  8,755  8,695  8,605  9,905  8,275  8,060  7,865  7,850
Expenditurer
Rubber replanting cost                 3,280       530    665    705    670    655
Less:  Replanting grant /e           4,295       985    985    985    985    790
Net replanting cost                   (1,015)   (455)  (320)  (280)  (315)  (135)
Dusan rehabilitation cost                 130       45      45
Less:  Subsidy /f                       130       45      45
Net rehabilitation cost                     -        -       -
Fishpond coontraction                   3,950
Less:  Subsidy /a                    3,000
Net construction cost                     950
Haintenance cost:  Rubber /b                -                                               405     165    165    535    535    535    535          535     535    535    520        520    520    520    520        150     150     150     150
Dusan                 -         -       -     40      45      45        45      45      45      45     45       45      45      45      45      45      45      45      45      45      45      45      45      45      45
Fishpond /a        (210)    290    290    290    290    290            290    290    290    290    290  2,090    290    290            290    290    290    290    290    290    290           580    290  2,090       290
Padi production cost                      150      160    160    250    250    250          250    250    250    250    250    250    250    250    250    250    250    250    250    250    250                    250    250      250    250
Lens:  Fertilieer sobridy /i             60       70      70    110      110    110       115    110    110    110        110     110    110    110       110    110    110       110     110    110      110     110     110    110    110
Net padi production cost                   90       90      90    140      140     140      140    140    140    140    140         140    140    140       140     140    140       140     140    140    140       140     140     140    140
Laod taxo. and other charges _3            15       15      15      15      15      15       30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30       30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30      30
Total txpeoditures                  (170)     (60)    75    205       175    355        910    670    960  1,040  1,040  2,840  1,040  1]040  1,040  1,040  1,040  1,040  10l40  1,040  1,040                   945    655  2,455       655
Family incose before loan
repasyent                              4,995   4,445  4,670  5,005  5,070  4,975   4,775  7,290  6,300  6,865  7,350  5,925  8,005  8,325  8,545  8,495  7,805  7,715  7,655  7,565  8,865  7,330  7,405  5,410  7,195
Lens:  Loan repayment /c                    -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480    480                       -       -
Family incone after loan
repayment                               4,995   4,445  4,670  5,005  5,070  4,975   4,775  7,290  5,820  6,385  6,870  5,445  7,525  7,845  8,065  8,015  7,325  7,235  7,175  7,085  8,585  6,850  6,925  5,410  7,195
Per capita ijcose (US3) /k                  360      320    340    365    360    360          345    530    420    465    500    395    545           570    585    580    530         525    520    515    610    495         500     390    520
Without Project
Family incone                             3,205   3,150  3,125  3,105  3,010  2,995   2,980  2,890  2,770  2,745  2,725  2,705  2,685  2,675  2,605  2,790  2,790  2,790  2,790  2,790  2,790  2,790  2,790  2,790  2,790
Per capita ijcose (U0S) /k                  230      230    225    225    220    215          215    210    200    200        195     195     195    190       190    200    200    200    200    200    200    200    200             200    200
Incremental Family Income                   1,790   1,295  1,545  1,900  2,060  1,980   1,795  4,400  3.050  3,640  4,145  2,740  4,840  5,170  5,460  5,225  4,535  4,445  4,385  4,295  5,595  4,060  4,135  2,620  4,405
/a Including valua of home comsu=ption.
77 At the rate of 120 kg of rice per capita for a family of ai.
77  At the rate of 9$100 per family per month, payable daring years 9 to 23 at no Interest.
/d  meision estimate.
7e   Over sin years totalling 9$5,645/ba, includIng cover crop subsidy of H3215/ha final years.
77   Tree  felling, fencing and fertiliner and penticidas for three Yenrs.
At hS3,000 per pond, plus M5500 per pond protection materiel subsidy in the first year.
7h  Net for fertilirer sabsidy of M$370/ye-r for yenrc  7-9.
,Ti  Ur.., 99 kg; basal mix, 198 kg; and a.ophoe, 10 kg per ha per se.son (at full application).
Pr rubbr at M5/ha for years 1-6 and M$14.8/hn for years 7 onvards; for padi, 955/he; dusun 959.9/ha; and fishpond, 959.9/ha.
/ k Asouming a family stze of sat.



ANNEX 2
Table 5
- 72 -
MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery Indices /a
Farm Model /b
A        B                   C         D
600 HH   2,600 HR           16,700HH   600 HR           Total
----------------- (M$) -------------------             (M$ mln)
1.  Net Cash Income /c                             13,700   24,100              18,300      23,800         390.8
Less:
2.  Depreciation /d                                    680    1,200                920       1,190           19.5
3.  Imputed value of family labor /e                3,430        340             1,950       3,590           37.8
4.  Imputed value of management services /f          1,370    2,410              1,830       2,380           39.1
5.  Imputed return on capital /g                       440        40                 10         60            0.6
6.  Allowance for risk and uncertainty /h            1,370    2,410              1,830       2,380           39.1
7.  Subtotal (2+3+4+5+6)                             7,290    6,400              6,540       9,050          136.1
Equals:
8.  Rent/Surplus (1-7)                              6,410   17,700              11,760      14,750         254.7
9.  Land taxes and other charges /i                   (200)      (50)              (50)        (50)          (1.1)
10.  Loan repayment /j                                    -    1,750              1,280       1,280           26.8
11.  Indirect charges /k                            17,650    5,520               4,030       4,030           94.7
12.  Total Charges (9+10+11)                        17,450    7,220               5,260       5,260          120.4
13.  Rent recovery index (12-e (8+11))                 73%       31%               33%         28%            34%
14.  Public sector outlays. (capital and O&M) /l                                                             295.0
15.  Cost recovery index (12 i 14)                                                                         41%/m
16.  Smallholders' income per capita, in 1995-
at full development (US$)                       800       575                490         500         510
17.  Estimated CCL at full development (US$)                                                              1,300
18.  Estimated GNP per capita at full develop-
ment (US$)                                                                                         4,000
/a  Items 1-12 and 14 are incremental at constant 1982 prices, and discounted at 10%.
7b  Model A:  rubber 6 ha; dusun 0.2 ha.
Model B: ruber 1.6 ha (in mini-estate); double-cropped padi 0.6 ha; dusun 0.2 ha.
Model C: rubber 1.6 ha; double-cropped padi 0.6 ha; dusun 0.2 ha.
Model D:  rubber 1.6 ha; double-cropped padi 0.3 ha; dusun 0.2 ha; fishpond 0.2 ha.
/c  From Annex 2, Tables 1-4.
Td  5% of net cash income.
7e  Family labor valued at M$8 per day.
If  10% of net cash income.
/g  Assumes 20% of expenditures are met from smallholders' own resources and allows 10% return to capital.
/h  10% of net cash income.
7i  From Annex 2, Tables 1-4.
Ij  For income maintenance loans for all farm models, and including repayment of excess cost over replanting
grant for farm Model B.
/k  Tax, replanting cess and research cess on rubber exports.
/1  Including fertilizer subsidies for padi.
7m  For rubber component, the disaggregated cost recovery is 81%.
Note: HR = Number of households.



- 73 -                                                      ANNEX 3
Table 1
MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Net Value of Production at Full Development /a
(in 1982 economic prices)
Net value
Gross    Produc-   Net                 of produc-
Produc- Farmgate  value of   tion   value of   Labor  tion after
Area   Yield    tion    price   production  costs production  cost   labor cost
(ha)  (ton/ha)  (ton)  (M$/ton) ----------------- (M$ million) --------------
Future with project
Rubber
Replant (mini-estate)        4,650   1.42/b  6,620   2,918          19.3       1.4      17.9        5.1       12.8
Replant (individual)        10,450   1.157  11,970   2,918          34.9       3.0      31.9       11.5       20.4
Maintenance                 13,170   1.497d 19,450   2,918          56.8       3.8      53.0       14.7       38.3
Subtotal                28,270            38,040                111.0       8.2    102.8       31.3       71.5
Padi
Main season                  8,850   3.20   28,320        609       17.2       3.9       13.3       5.1        8.2
Off season                   5,310   3.20   16,990        609       10.3       2.4        7.9       2.9        5.0
Subtotal                14,160            45,310                 27.5       6.3      21.2       8.0       13.2
Fruits                         2,025   3.26    6,600   2,250          14.9        0.4      14.5       0.6       13.9
Fish                             210   2.76        580   3,000          1.7      0.3        1.4       0.3        1.1
Total                                                           155.1      15.2    139.9       40.2       99.7
Future without project
Rubber
Replant                     15,100   0.25    3,780   2,918          11.0       0.5      10.5       12.0       (1.5)
Maintenance                  5,010   0.23    1,140   2,918           3.3       0.2        3.1       4.0       (0.9)
Subtotal                2n,110             4,920                 14.3       0.7      13.6      16.0       (2.4)
Padi
Main season                  8,850   2.50   22,120        609       13.5       2.8       10.7       4.8        5.9
Off season                   3,540   2.50    8,850        609        5.4       1.2       4.2        1.6        2.6
Subtotal                12,390            30,970                 18.9       4.0      14.9       6.4        8.5
Fruits                         2,025   2.24    4,540   2,210          10.0       -         10.0       0.3        9.7
Fish                               -   -             -        -        -         -          -         -          -
Total                                                            43.2       4.7      38.5      22.7        15.8
Incremental                                                             111.9      10.5    101.4       17.5       83.9
/a  1995.
/b  Peak yield reached in 2000 at 1.67 tons/ha.
/c  Peak yield reached in 1999 at 1.51 tons/ha.
/d  Peak yield in 1994 at 1.49 tons/ha.



-74 -                                 ANNEX 3
Table 2
MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Appraisal  Crossover   Change  Elasticity
value      value /a    (%)          /b
Rubber /c
Smallholder Replanting
Yield (kg/ha)                            1,150       800           -30       +3.3
World market price (RSSI, c.i.f.
New York spot, 1990, US$/kg)             168       118           -30      +3.3
Capital costs (M$ million)                38.4      75.2           +96       -1.0
Shadow wage rate (M$/day)                  6.40    12.20           +91       -1.1
Mini-estate Replanting
Yield (kg/ha)                            1,420    1,210            -15       +6.7
World market price (RRS1, c.i.f.
New York spot, 1990, US$/kg)             168       145           -14      +7.1
Capital costs (M$ million)                27.7      39.9           +44       -2.3
Shadow wage rate (M$/day)                  6.4      10.00          +56       -1.8
Padi /d
Pumping Type Scheme (No. 11)
Yield (ave. ton/ha)                        3.2       3.1           -3      +33.3
Cropping intensity (%)                     180       174           -3      +33.3
World market price (5% broken,
f.o.b. Bangkok, 1990, US$/ton)           442       397         -10       +10
Capital costs (M$ million)                2.23      2.52         +13        -7.7
Shadow wage rate (M$/day)                 6.40      7.10         +11        -9.1
Headworks Type Scheme (No. 31)
Yield (ave. ton/ha)                        3.2       3.1           -3     +33.3
Cropping intensity (%)                     160        157          -2     +50.0
World market price (5% broken,
f.o.b. Bangkok, 1990, US$/ton)           442       400         -10       +10
Capital costs (M$ million)                0.72      0.77           +7     -14.3
Shadow wage rate (M$/day)                 6.40      6.80           +6     -16.7
Fruits
Yield (ton/ha)                             3.26      2.74          -16       +6.2
Economic price (1990, M$/ton) /e         2,250    1,890            -16       +6.2
Capital costs (M$ million)                 2.66      8.83         +230       -0.4
Shadow wage rate (M$/day)                  6.40    31.40         +390        -0.3
Fish
Yield (ton/ha)                             2.09       1.96          -6      +16.7
Economic price (1990, M$/ton)            3,000    2,800             -7      +14.3
Capital costs (M$ million)                 2.7       3.2           +19       -5.3
Shadow wage rate (M$/day)                  6.40      9.00          +41       -2.4
/a Value of variable for which NPV is zero at a discount rate of 10%.
/b Percent change in NPV (discounted at 10%) due to a 1% change in a variable.
/c For smallholder replanting and mini-estate components.
/d Taking two sample schemes with lowest rates of return.
/e For with and without project cases, a price charge of -40% and an elasticity
of +2.5.
Note: Capital costs are discounted at 10%.



-75 -                             ANNEX 4
MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Early Events
Activity                                 Responsibility       Target date
General
Submit terms of reference of
consultants for two studies:               Government
(i) future agricultural projects                                 03/83
(ii) fruit production/marketing                                   03/83
Appoint consultants for financial            Government            03/83
resources/management study of RISDA
Civil Works
Engage consultants for construction
supervision of irrigation works
and buildings                              DID                   12/82
Acquire land for:
First two packages of irrigation,
schemes                                 DLM                    11/82
First package of access roads (100 km)   DLM                     06/83
Engage consultants for survey, planning,
design, bid processing and construc-
tion supervision of access roads (as
agreed at appraisal)                       SPWD                  06/82
Goods
Submit tender documents for equipment
and vehicles required in first
project year                               PD                    09/82



ANNEX 5
- 76 -                    Page 1
MALAYSIA
KEDAE VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Agricultural Sector
A.1 Government of Malaysia "Report of the Cabinet Committee on
National Agricultural Policy," Part II Vol. I, (undated).
A.2 Government of Malaysia, Fourth Malaysia Plan, 1981-85, March
1981.
A.3 Ministry of Finance, Malaysia, "Economic Report, 1979-80,"
October 1979.
A.4 S. Selvadurai, "Agriculture in Peninsula Malaysia,"
Ministry of Agriculture, April 1978.
A.5 Veitch, M.D., "National Parameters for Project Appraisal in
Malaysia" Economic Planning Unit, Malaysia, November 1977.
A.6 IBRD, "Malaysia - Selected Issues in Rural Poverty" Report No.
2685-MA, January 1980.
A.7  K. Young, WCF Bussink, and P. Hasan, "Malaysia - Growth and
Equity in a Multiracial Society," IBRD, 1980.
B.   General Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1 Economic Consultants Ltd., "Kedah-Perlis Development
Study," September 1978.
B.2 State Economic Planning Unit (Kedah), "The Kedah Valleys
Development Project - Project Identification Brief," August 1979.
B.3 Ministry of Agriculture, Malaysia, "Kedah Valleys Development
Project" undated.
B.4  MAMPU,(Malaysian Administrative Modernization and Manpower Plan-
ning Unit, Prime Minister's Department) "Review of the
Organization and Management of Integrated Area Development
Projects, Ministry of Agriculture," October 1980.
B.5 Kedah Valleys Development Project "Proposals of the Working Group
on Rubber/Oil Palm," June 1981.



ANNEX 5
- 77 -                     Page 2
B.6 M.E.D. Reed, N.R. Hayles, D.B. Hughes, W. Newall, "State and Rural
Development Project - Approaches for Developing Small Farms in
Kedah" December 1981.
B.7 RISDA's Rubber Smallholder Study Team et al., "Recommended
Development Approaches for RlSDA in the Baling Integrated
Development Area," April 1981.
B.8 Jurutera Konsultant (S.E.A.) Sdn. Bhd., "Study on the
Intensification of Irrigated Agriculture in Kedah and Perlis,"
Inception Report, February 1980.
B.9 Jurutera Konsultant (S.E.A.) Sdn Bhd. et al., "Studies on
the Intensification of Irrigated Agriculture in Kedah and Perlis,
March 1981.
B.10 Department of Agriculture, Extension Branch, "Report of the
Working Group on Services, Extension, Research and Seed
Multiplicaton," (Kedah Valleys Development Project), June 1980.
B.11 Kedah Valleys Development Project "Working Committee Report on
Development, Marketing, Processing of Fruits, Short-term Crops and
Vegetables," June 1980.
B.12 Kedah Valleys Development Project, "Working Group for Livestock
and Fisheries." (undated).
B.13 Farmers Organization Authority, "The FOA's Proposal for ADB Loan
for the Agricultural Infrastructure Support Services" (undated).
B.14 Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
"Agricultural Research by MARDI in Kedah Valleys Development
Project," November 1980.
B.15 Report on Federal Agricultural and Marketing Authority (FAMA)
component in Kedah Valleys Agricultural Development Project,
(undated).
B.16 State Department of Agriculture, Kedah, "Annual Report 1980."
B.17 Ministry of Agriculture, Malaysia, "Enterprise Budgets for Padi"
February 1981.
C. Reference File (Staff Working Papers)
C.1 RISDA component
C.2 DID component
C.3 SPWD component



- 78 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 3
C.4 DOA component
C.5  DOF component
C.6  FOA component
C.7  MARDI component
C.8  FAMA component
C.9  Project Director's Office
C.10 Climatic Data
C.11 Sample Crop Water Requirements
C.12  Labor Requirements by Crop, by Month and Total
C.13  Phasing of Agricultural Development, Yield Profiles and Production
C.14  Crop Budgets
C.15  Fertilizer Price Structure
C.16  National Parameters
C.17  Financial and Economic Prices
C.18  Economic Costs and Benefits by Components
C.19  Procurement Profile of Value/Number of Contracts.
C.20  Summary of All Training Inputs.



22225          . 2 22.2 0.2      2.2 2.2 2.fl2.
>22'.
It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-  80  -                                                                      Figure  4.1
MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization
Kedah State                                                       Ministry of Agriculture
Government                                                                M OA
State Economic
Planning Committee
Federal Line                                     --
Agnecins     r                     i
Kedah Regional          L
Development Authority       L      _   _
KEDA
Liaison
PSD                                                  Proiect Steering Committee                                                                            Control
Co-chairmen
Secretary-Genera., MOA
EPU                                                 State Secretary Kedah
MLRD
Other
Agencies
|    Technical    l                                          p       ProjectDirecototrsirecto
|   Committee    l                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Finance and   |Economics and
Ad nminis rat0n|   Monitoring
(State Agencies)
r    ----T   _- --t-  -----T-----~-T  --                                                            T - - -               -- --     - -           
RISDA               DID              OPWD                DA                FDA                   DOF              MARDI              FDLM                AMA            Other Agencies
State Officer  State Dire.t.,  State Di-to,                            Stae Dirctor          Office.r        Stt   ietr         State Officer
|Project Link  ||Project Link  ||Project Link  |             Project Link  ||Project Link  |  |Project Link  ||Project Link  ||Project Lies|    Project Link|
|    Officer    l l    Officer    | |    Officer    | |    Officer        O l    Dfficer    |    |  Officer   | |    Officer         Officer           Officer
World Bank-23962



-  81  -                                                                       Figure  5.1
MALAYSIA
KEDAH VALLEYS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Cropping Schedules for a Typical Irrigation Scheme
400
350-
300-
200 -
150-
JAN           FEB           MAR           APR           MAY            JUN          JULY           AUG           SEPT           OCT           NOV            DEC
Cropping Pattern I
(Double Padi Cropping)           _                                  _                                                    _
D     %      I  F.a1oalo                                  Plant  rowth                 c           2  I                                      Plant Gro-th
20     10      27             35         7                  90                         20     10   14          35                              90
Croppirng Pattern II
(Single Padi Crop
Followed by Cash                 _.
Crops)                  C    C_
2, ' 5                                          Possible Other Crops                                              cPlnt GCo,Th
20     10   ___  __ __  ___ __  __ ___  __  __ ___  __ __  ___ __  __ ___  __ __  ___ __  __ ___  __ __         35   _    7    _________________90   __________Wl n 2
WV,dS Sans- 23936






:  t4|t  ,,d | W e #,OO _O. s R < * Q  
.4         ] 1'                 a. Z .,    52 g *    .                           ,8       ,,,a   
i   \  >,       V                              -n      n                        C               <>> > z A>}-  
_,2 ~~~<  < : .  : _ /T  e ur   < - --                                              . / ~~~~~~~
i/ _ -- - 4: ' a tw-> 4 Q X I i~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                     G
  z  < _ _- p / * t / D g                                                            M
g  X  * u + / Z~~~~~7
], _ v~~~~~~~-                            t 0 ~     Y
w >eDm  89  8u)m  c o a8  _c3, O _, > ,,.a , h _9       .>,G1f                                   i<: oA



