Report No. PID7362
Project name                     Madagascar-Public-Private Partnership(@)
and Information Management
for Regional Development Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Institutional Development
Project ID number                MGPE62628
Borrower(s)                      The Republic of Madagascar
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Town and Country Planning,
Antananarivo, Madagascar
Tel: (261) 20 22 35617
Environment Category             C
Date Initial PID prepared        February 3, 1999
Date Revised PID                 January 31, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         December 1999
Projected Board Date             February 2000 (LIL)
Country Background
1.      In spite of its many endowments and inherited advantages, Madagascar's
GDP has only grown at an annual average of 0.5% on the average over the past
three decades, making it one of the poorest countries in the world. During
that period of time, low GDP growth combined with a population increase of
about three percent annually have led to worsening living standards. As a
result, poverty has worsened, from affecting two-fifths to three-quarters of
the population. The performance of the two main non-agricultural economic
sectors, mining and tourism, remains sluggish and the Government has yet to
effectively promote investment in these sectors. Potential exports of
mineral resources are estimated at US$ 600 million by the end of next decade
as compared to US$ 25 million in 1997 while other mineral exports, such as
semi-precious stones, could represent an estimated US$ 100 million. Tourism
grew an average of 10% in the 1990s, but Madagascar's annual revenues from
tourism are not comparable to those of its much smaller neighbor country,
Mauritius. Madagascar's many tourist attractions, including its unique
topographic and bio-diversity, should allow it to compete with its neighbors
in attracting tourists from East Asia, Europe and the rest of Africa.
2.      To tap its main sources of growth and restore economic growth on a
sustainable basis, Madagascar would need to tackle two main challenges:
(a)     foster the supply response of the private sector; and
(b)     change the role of the State in the context of the decentralization
process envisaged in the recently revised Constitution.
Sector Background
3.      Madagascar's territory (592,000 square km) is as big as France and



Belgium put together, while its total population barely exceeds fourteen
million inhabitants. It consists of about 28 homogeneous economic regions
that have been identified as a result of a major UNDP-financed study that was
carried out in the nineties for the Ministry of Economy and Planning
( Regions and Development, Regional Programmes and Local Projects; Ministry of
Economy and Planning/United Development Programme. OPS/UNDP Project
MAG/89/018, May 1991). This report also highlights the importance of the
involvement of local people and business communities in the decision-making
process for investments at the regional and local levels. Regions and their
capital cities are seen as engines of growth for Madagascar, especially when
investments are private sector-led.
4.      Among them, the Menabe region has shown remarkable progress since 1995.
It already attracts significant private investment and, as a consequence, has
experienced substantial growth in fishery, fish farming and tourism. As for
the Anosy and Mangoro regions, they may soon benefit from major private
investment in the mining sector -- ilmenite and nickel extraction projects,
respectively. For the private sector to be more active and expand further in
these regions, major improvements in public investment efficiency and
integration at the regional level are highly critical.
5.      In the Menabe region, some data collection and analytical work has
already been carried out by the Regional Development Committee (RDC) in
preparation for the design of the Regional Development Framework (RDF).
Continuation of this work is required to provide a basis for developing the
regional Public Investment Program (PIP), in close consultation with the RDC
and in coordination with donors. There is also a need to set up a
sustainable GIS-based (Geographical Information system) information and
knowledge management system. In the other two pilot regions, Anosy and
Mangoro (especially the latter), this work has already started and should be
pursued under the project with methodological assistance brought by the
latter to the regions.
Main Sector Issues
6.      Recent economic and sector work has highlighted some of the key policy
and institutional issues affecting Madagascar's economic performance. An
important issues is the economy's heavy dependence on public investment,
which accounts for more than 60 percent of total investment, and of which a
substantial part is devoted to regional and local efforts (social
infrastructure, feeder roads), rather than national ones (highways, ports,
airports). Also, public investment remains heavily dependent on external
financing sources and its management is quite centralized and divided by
sectors.
7.      The political decentralization that the country underwent in 1992 with
the first elections of municipal councils and mayors has not been accompanied
by a decentralization of the decision-making process for public investment.
It is still managed by sector ministries at the central level, sector by
sector, with limited consultation of stakeholders, in particular the business
community.
8.      Furthermore, at present, the PIP preparation process is mostly
characterized by a top-down and sector-specific approach, with little, if
any, reference to regional economic development frameworks. As a result,
-2 -



local investments rarely support each other, are geographically unrelated and
poorly maintained, and are inadequate to create a favorable business
environment to attract foreign and national private investors that could act
as the driving force for economic growth.
9.      The problem stems in part from the absence of appropriate tools and from
weakness in the existing ones. There is a need for new managerial and
operational tools, such as:
(a)     regional development frameworks to ensure better coordination of public
and private investments;
(b)     participatory mechanisms giving key local stakeholders a voice in local
and regional public investment decision-making;
(c)     regional and local socio-economic and environmental inventories and
reliable geographic data; and
(d)     improved coordination of GOM programs and donor interventions at the
regional level.
10.     Ensuring greater coherence between local priorities, development
programs and national economic objectives is essential to Madagascar's
development. To this end, decentralizing the decision-making process for
public investment, ensuring a better donors' coordination at the level of
economic regions in Madagascar and building strong public-private partnership
on local and regional priorities would be an important building block towards
an effective decentralization process. In this context, the preparation of
Public Investment Programs (PIPs) at the regional level becomes a key
priority. This would ensure better prioritization of investments in the face
of limited human and financial resources, more ownership of infrastructure,
more integration of sub-projects, and ultimately better maintenance
programming.
Rationale for Bank intervention
11.     One of the main strategic objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) is to strengthen the public sector's ability to deliver quality
services, thereby creating a business environment that enables the private
sector to thrive. The project is expected to significantly contribute to
achieving this objective by identifying appropriate methods of incorporating
the views of key regional and local stakeholders--in particular, those in the
private/non-governmental sector--in the decision-making process which defines
regional development and local investment priorities.
12.     Regional and local economic growth led by private sector investment is
critical to development in Madagascar. Decentralizing the decision-making
process for public investment which must support private sector efforts in
order to achieve economic growth, and building public-private partnerships in
support of regional and local priorities, should contribute to the promotion
of more sustainable development.
13.     Creating a better business environment in each region requires better
and more productive public investment. Such investment requires better
coordination across sectors, i.e. improved geographic integration, and a
systematic search for ways to create synergy between public and private
sector investment. Better coordination and synergy, in turn, call for a
decentralized decision-making process for preparing sub-national PIPs at the
- 3-



level of the economic regions.
14.     Such improvements can only be achieved through a major change in
regional planning and investment programming processes. This change will
require the introduction of appropriate regional information tools to be
designed, tested and used on a pilot basis by this project. These tools are
expected to improve key local stakeholders' knowledge and understanding of
the main regional issues and help them make better decisions regarding
regional development planning and investment programming.
15.     Conceived as a Learning Innovation Loan (LIL), the project will test new
approaches and develop locally based mechanisms, methodologies and
information systems to ensure a bottom-up and consultative process for the
preparation of regional and local development frameworks and investment
programs. Such an experiment would take place in the context of building
stronger and closer public-private partnerships. As a key element in
supporting decentralization efforts by the Government, the project will also
design and test appropriate tools to strengthen capacity to plan, execute and
maintain investments at the local level. Based on results during
implementation and drawing from lessons learned, the approaches,
methodologies and information systems, if adopted, could be extended to other
regions in one or several provinces as part of a follow-up operation.
Project Objective
16.     The objective of this project is to assist the Government of Madagascar
(GOM) and the country's economic regions in developing model methodologies
and tools that will promote regional development and facilitate investment
programming.
Project Setting and Key Activities
17.     This will be done on a pilot basis in at least three economic regions,
Menabe, Anosy and Mangoro (see map 30536), along with other regions that may
choose to participate as the project unfolds. It is expected that these
methodologies and tools will be adapted for adoption in additional economic
regions.
18.     The project will develop the following approaches, methodologies and
tools:
(i)     Partnership between the public and private sectors, to better coordinate
public and private investments and to create a business environment conducive
to private sector growth in the economic regions;
(ii)    Participatory regional and local investment planning and programming
processes, involving key stakeholders in the regions, in particular, the
elected mayors, the business community and civil society; and
(iii)   Regional information and knowledge management systems, using current
economic, geographical and social statistical data to guide decision-makers
in defining regional and local investment priorities.
19.     The proposed LIL will be instrumental in designing, testing in the three
selected pilot regions, developing, and disseminating replicable approaches
and methodologies for decentralized infrastructure management at the level of
Malagasy economic regions. In particular, it will help:
- 4 -



(i)     assess the feasibility of a bottom-up and participatory preparation of
three year rolling Regional Public Investment Programs (PIP) within Regional
Development Frameworks (RDF) as reference documents for ensuring better donor
coordination and closer public and private partnerships;
(ii)    design appropriate tools, approaches and methodologies that strengthen
local management capacity to program, maintain and operate infrastructure
projects included in regional PIPs; and
(iii)   disseminate relevant documentation and learning material by creating
appropriate decentralized information systems (national, regional and local)
which facilitate inter alia: the cross-fertilization of success stories and
best practices in regional and municipal development; the exchange of
information on financing opportunities and regional/municipal projects; the
participatory preparation of regional PIPs; and the quick assessment of
municipal financial and technical capacity to actually maintain
infrastructure projects included in regional PIPs.
Project Description
20.     The proposed project will support the activities as described below:
Component A: Pilot Public-Private Partnership for Regional Development
Planning and Investment Programming (US$ 2.96 million)
The objective of this component is to test, on a pilot basis, the
decentralization of the decision-making process for regional development
planning and identification of investment programming priorities, including
strengthened public-private partnerships, in the Menabe, Anosy and Mangoro
regions (and other economic regions deciding to adopt the process). To
achieve this objective, this component will support the following activities
by the three RDCs:
(a)     capacity building for RDCs in strategic planning and investment
programming, through thematic workshops and seminars on key regional and
local issues;
(b)     participatory preparation and completion of RDFs, with technical
assistance provided by the project to support the RDCs' Technical Commissions
in their discussion and selection of economic scenarios for growth and of
regional development priorities. Particular attention will be paid to the
economic, social and environmental implications of different scenarios and
priorities;
(c)     participation of RDCs in the preparation of regional PIPs that are fully
consistent with the RDFs and GOM-Donor coordination for the financing of
regional PIPs;
(d)     creation of Regional Data Units (RDUs) to collect, update and
disseminate information and data to RDCs;
(e)     creation, on a pilot basis, of Public Information Centers (PICs) as an
off-shoot of the RDUs in two of the three selected regions (Menabe and Anosy)
to distribute materials about regional and local development potential,
public and private projects, and business opportunities; and
(f)     creation of regional economic accounts (REAs), on a pilot basis,
(following the ECOLOC model) that can assess the impact of both public and
private regional investments on local economic growth and welfare of
residents.
Provision has been made to finance studies and other support activities as
well as the contract manager's fees and the increase in RDC operating
expenses required in order to implement component A.
- 5 -



Component B:    Regional Information and Knowledge Management
(US$ 0.78 million)
The objective of this component is to put together a package of institutional
arrangements, approaches, methodologies and tools to improve regional
development knowledge that could be applied throughout the country (the
"Public-Private Partnership and Information Management" package).
In an initial phase, to make it possible for the RDCs to implement Component
A of the project, Component B will involve the following activities:
(a)     design of methodologies for preparing: (i) RDFs; and (ii) regional PIPs;
(b)     design of a Regional Information System (RIS) to provide each region
with data relevant for: (i) strategic planning; (ii) investment programming;
and (iii) regional economic accounting;
(c)     design and creation of a Regional Economic Accounting (REA) system;
Later on, building on the experience gained through the implementation of
Component A, activities will include:
(d)     follow-up and ex-post evaluation of preparatory methodologies of RDFs
and regional PIPs, and preparation of reference methodologies;
(e)     follow-up and ex-post evaluation of use of RDUs and finalizing of the
RIS;
(f)     follow-up and ex-post evaluation of establishment and use of REAs;
(g)     design and production of information material; and
(h)     seminars on regional planning methodologies.
Provisions have been made to finance additional activities and the increase
of operating costs (supported by MATV) for implementation of components B and
C of the project and the monitoring of component A.
Component C: Dissemination of the model to other regions (US$ 1.35 million)
The objective of this component is to begin disseminating the regional model
designed under Component B and tested under Component A to other economic
regions in Madagascar. The activities to be carried out will include:
(a)     support to the Regional and Country Planning (RCP) Unit, which is
responsible for support to regional planning and dissemination of information
about the regional investment planning and the programming model designed
under component B;
(b)     development of communication skills;
(c)     dissemination of regional pilot experiences; and
(d)     support to the establishment of RDCs in other economic regions.
Provision has been made to finance additional activities as needed to support
the objectives of this component, in particular institutional studies in the
event of the creation of autonomous provinces.
Project Financing
21.     The proposed IDA credit is US$ 4.6 million.    The Government of
Madagascar (GOM) is expected to contribute US$ 0.5 million which represents
GOM's in-kind contribution in form of staff, offices and equipment made
available for the duration of the project, without any actual disbursement of
counterpart funds.
-6-



Project Implementation
22.     Overall project implementation will be supervised by an interministerial
committee headed by the Prime Minister or his representative. All relevant
line ministries involved in the PIP preparation will participate in the
committee, including, the Ministers (or their representatives) of Finance and
Planning, Town and Country Planning, Budget and Decentralization,
Agriculture, Environment, Industry and Mining, Public Works, and Tourism.
This committee will ensure (on an ex-post basis) that project activities are
carried out and that the corresponding IDA funds are used in accordance with
the objectives and modalities spelled out in the Development Credit
Agreement. It will also facilitate sector and donor coordination for the
preparation of the pilot regional PIPs.
Component A
23.     The RDCs will be responsible for the implementation of the activities
included in Component A of the project. IDA funds allocated to this
component will be made available to the RDCs through a special account opened
by the Ministry of Town and Country Planning (MATV) in the name of the
contract manager selected (private/non-governmental sector) and managed by
the latter. This manager will be responsible for procurement of consultants
and goods upon request of the RDCs and on their behalf.
24.     The executing agency (contract manager) for this component will be
selected on a competitive basis. A management contract (Convention)
acceptable to IDA will be signed between the Borrower (represented by MATV)
and the selected contract manager. This will be a condition for Credit
effectiveness. This contract will specify the management system (contracts
and financial management) to be put in place to monitor project activities,
the reporting system, the audit requirements (see paragraphs below on
Financial Management System and Audits), and the management fees (up to a
maximum of 10t of the value of contracts actually managed). Memorandums of
Understanding (Protocoles d'accord) acceptable to IDA will be signed between
each RDC, the MATV and the contract manager for Component A. Each memorandum
will specify the respective roles and responsibilities of each party.
25.     The contract manager to be selected as the executing agency for
Component A will (i) assist the RDCs in the preparation of their annual
program of activities; (ii) on the basis of these programs, establish the
corresponding strategic procurement plans (subject to prior IDA review);
(iii) manage consultant services contracts (prepare terms of reference,
select consultant, ensure quality control) related to the implementation of
the program of activities; (iv) prepare progress and evaluation reports to be
transmitted to the Borrower and RDCs; and (v) contract out required financial
audits.
26.     Consultants to be hired by the contract manager on behalf of RDCs will
be selected according to the Guidelines on the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1999). A special account will be
opened for small consultant contracts in an amount less than the equivalent
of $20,000.00 to give more flexibility and responsiveness to the RDCs.
Consultant contracts above $20,000 will be submitted for direct payment by
IDA after approval of the applicable invoices by MATV (RCP unit).
- 7 -



Components B and C
27.     Implementation of Components B and C of the project will be undertaken
by the Town and Country Planning Directorate of MATV through a Regional and
Country Planning Unit (RCP Unit) to be created within the Ministry and
staffed prior to Credit effectiveness. This pilot unit will be appropriately
staffed (as part of the government's contribution to the project) through
full and part time re-assignments (mostly within the Ministry) of civil
servants specializing in: (i) regional planning, (ii) regional economy and
investment programming, and (iii) GIS-based information systems. A
coordinator, to be judged acceptable by IDA, will be appointed by MATV and
financed under the IDA credit to (i) manage the unit for the duration of the
project, (ii) execute the activities included in Components B and C of the
project, and (iii) liaise with project stakeholders (principally the RDC, the
interministerial committee and the contract manager for Component B). An
accountant will be recruited for the duration of the project and will mentor
a counterpart within the Ministry.
28.     The RCP unit will also act as the project's Technical Secretariat for
the interministerial committee and will prepare quarterly progress reports
and carry out mid-term and ex-post reviews of the project.
29.     As the executing agency for activities included in components B and C,
the pilot unit will be in charge of managing consultant contracts and
procuring goods required by the activities described. The selection of
consultants and the procurement of goods will be undertaken in accordance
with Bank guidelines. A special account will be opened specifically for the
payment of local consultants and goods.
30.     Incremental operating costs incurred by MATV in setting up and
maintaining the RCP Unit and acting as the technical secretariat for the
duration of the project will be covered under the IDA credit.
Project Sustainability
31.     The extension to other regions of such methodologies and approaches is
critical to the overall question of sustainability. Institutions to be
strengthened as well as mechanisms and approaches to be carried out on a
pilot basis in this project are not only expected to remain after project and
contribute to more sustainable infrastructure service provision, but they are
also expected to be adapted, replicated and developed progressively in other
regions and communes of Madagascar. Adoption of the proposed approach and
potential extension in other regions will mainly rely on: (i) successful
outcomes of the proposed project; and (ii) Government's commitment, which
will have to go beyond its short-term and obvious interest in carrying out
that experience in regions that are subject to substantial private
investments. It is expected that successful pilot implementation of this LIL
will be convincing enough for GOM to continue and expand it with increased
use of its own resources.
Lessons Learned
32.     The recent experience in Menabe/Morondava has shown encouraging signs
that such an approach could be feasible for making decisions on priorities
for public investments which are locally financed (the so-called "302
millions block grants"). The Regional Development Committee makes decisions
- 8 -



on and supervises the implementation of priority investment that are locally
financed under a block investment grant allocated to local governments on a
regional basis. By building on this first experience, expanding the
decision-making process to externally financed investments of local and
regional interest, and initiating a similar exercise in another economic
region, the Bank would greatly contribute to building the foundation for
gradual decentralization of resources and decision-making in Madagascar.
Poverty Aspects
33.     Creating the conditions for wealth through private sector-led growth and
economic development in the regions of Madagascar is likely to be the most
efficient and effective strategy for reducing poverty in Madagascar. The
three selected regions are among the poorest in Madagascar and in the world.
However, prospects for private investments are high in these regions. The
proposed project would contribute to building public-private partnerships
necessary for these prospects to materialize. It would also help optimize
the benefits and positive impacts of the investments on the poor by
strengthening local capacity to better plan and program social infrastructure
services.
Environmental Aspects
34.     The proposed project is classified as category C.    An environmental
assessment of this project was not conducted as part of its preparation,
since the project deals with institutional strengthening and knowledge
management, with the latter including data on environmental conditions in the
pilot regions. However, as necessary, the National Environment Office (ONE)
will prepare assessments for priority projects identified at the regional and
local level. These assessments will be taken into account in the PIP
decision-making processes. Assessment of the environmental impacts of
private investments are currently carried out by private investors, then
reviewed by ONE. Moreover, the pilot regions are subject to a regional
environmental assessment in the context of the Environmental II Project.
Project Objectives Category
35.     Capacity building at local and regional level through participation of
all key stakeholders in making investment decision is the main objective of
this project.
36.     Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Patrick P. Canel
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
-9-



Telephone: (202) 472-4767
Fax:       (202) 473-8249
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending Fabruary 4, 2000.
- 10 -



