Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3331-MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Public-Private Partnership and Information 
Management for Regional Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 26, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3331-MAG 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read: 
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full amount 
Page  2
then due and  payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the Association 
shall have the right 
to allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner 
and for such purposes under the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall 
in its sole discretion determine.”; 
and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
“radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read: 
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“CLID” means the “Centre Local d’Information pour le Développement” 
referred to under Part A.3 of the Project;  
(b)
“Economic Region” or “ER” means any of the economic regions established 
pursuant to the provisions of Law No. 94-001 dated April 26, 1995 of the Borrower but 
which is not a PER; 
(c)
“IC” means the Interministerial Committee referred to in paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(d)
“Pilot Economic Region” or “PER” means the Anosy Region, the Mangoro 
Region and the Menabe Region located in the Borrower’s territory; 
(e)
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual describing the 
Project reporting and monitoring procedures, plans and other implementation 
arrangements (including procurement and disbursement arrangements) and specifying the 
performance indicators to be used in assessing the progress achieved in the execution 
of the Project;
(f)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(g)
“RCPU” means the Regional and Country Planning Unit referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(h)
“RDU” means the Regional Data Unit referred to under Part A.3 of the 
Project;  
(i)
“RDC” means “Regional Development Committee”, i.e. a consultative body 
established or to be established at the level of each ER for the purposes of fostering 
an active participation of private sector representatives and local communities’ 
leaders in activities pertaining to economic development planning and investment 
programming at the level of each ER; and  
(j)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
Page  3
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the Project and for the 
purposes of Parts B and C of the Project, open and maintain in dollars two separate 
special deposit accounts (Special Account A and Special Account B) in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, each respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2010, and ending February 1, 2040.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2020 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
Page  4
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and economic planning practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of 
the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources, and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
Page  5
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 2001, or such later date 
as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
Page  6
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has established the RCPU in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the Borrower has concluded the contractual arrangements referred in 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association and in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower has recruited: (i) an accountant for the RCPU; and (ii) the 
auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement; all under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association and in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(d)
the Borrower has submitted to the Association the PIM in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
BP 121
Antananarivo, 101
Madagascar
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINFIN
22489
261-20 22 345 30
Antananarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Page  7
By /s/ Zina Andrianarivelo-Razafy 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Credit Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in SDR)
to be Financed
(1)
Equipment, 
   120,000
80% 
materials and
furniture
(2)
Consultants’
100%
services 
(a) under Part A of the 
1,740,000
Project; and
(b) under Parts B and C
1,210,000
of the Project
(3)
Operating costs
  110,000
80%
(4)
Unallocated
  220,000
TOTAL
3,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “operating costs” means expenditures 
incurred under the Project for travel costs and subsistence expenses for travel 
related to the Project, and equipment maintenance and repairs. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure (a) for goods and consultants’ services 
(consulting firms) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each; and (b) for 
consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding $20,000each for individual 
consultants; all, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
Page  8
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in designing appropriate 
methodologies and tools aimed at promoting regional economic development through 
active participation of private sector representatives in the decision making-process 
for investment programming at the ER level.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Promotion of Private Sector 
Involvement in Regional Development Planning and Investment Programming  
1.
Carrying out of thematic workshops and seminars aimed at familiarizing RCDs with 
strategic planning techniques and investments programming.  
2.
Provision of technical advisory services and training to assist RCDs in the 
formulation of regional development frameworks and regional investment programs in a 
participatory manner in each PER. 
3.
Establishment of (a) a RDU in each PER aimed at collecting, updating and 
disseminating economic information and relevant data to the RDCs; and (b) CLIDs in 
Anosy and Menabe aimed at providing any interested party with relevant data pertaining 
to local and regional development potential, ongoing public or private development 
projects as well as potential business opportunities. 
4.
Formulation of an appropriate methodology for the establishment of regional 
economic accounts, and implementation of the said methodology in each PER.
Part B: 
Establishment of Regional Information and Knowledge Management Systems 
1.
Formulation of appropriate methodologies to be followed for preparing adequate 
regional development frameworks and adequate regional public investment programs, all 
in a participatory manner. 
2.
Design and establishment of an adequate regional information system aimed at 
providing each ER with the relevant data needed for strategic planning, investment 
programming and regional economic accounting. 
3.
Establishment of an adequate monitoring and evaluation system aimed at measuring 
the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project. 
4.
Design of appropriate information and communication tools such as users guides 
and toolkits to be used in carrying out the Project.
Part C:
Dissemination of Appropriate Investment Programming Methodologies in 
other ERs 
1.
Strengthening RCPU’s expertise in matters relating to regional investment 
planning and programming through the provision of technical advisory services and 
training. 
2.
Upgrading the skills of the Borrower’s staff responsible for regional 
development planning through the provision of adequate training on the new 
methodologies developed under the Project. 
3.
Carrying out of seminars, workshops and other relevant activities aimed at 
(a) disseminating the results of the Project in the remaining ERs; and (b) fostering 
the establishment of RCDs in the said ERs. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Page  9
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or more per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. 
2.
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for furniture, office equipment and other 
equipment shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $20,000 or more each.  
3.
National Shopping 
Contracts for the acquisition of furniture and office equipment estimated to 
cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection 
Page  10
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for financial audits estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Selection under a Fixed Budget
Services required for the selection of the contract manager under Part A of the 
Project estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent in the aggregate may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to any amendment to a contract for the employment of a 
consulting firm or of an individual consultant as specified in subparagraphs (a) and 
Page  11
(b) above, the contract shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the PIM and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision 
of said PIM if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
2.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of carrying out the Project, establish and 
thereafter maintain (a) the IC with membership and oversight functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association; and (b) the RCPU, with functions, 
responsibilities and qualified staff in adequate numbers, all satisfactory to the 
Association.
3.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, 
conclude, with a services provider whose technical expertise is satisfactory to the 
Association, a contract acceptable to the Association, including inter alia 
appropriate arrangements enabling the services provider to undertake, on the behalf of 
the Borrower, any activities pertaining to the implementation of Part A of the Project 
including the procurement and management of all contracts for goods and consultants’ 
services required for the said Part A of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by February 15 of each year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by April 15 of each year, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter. 
5.
The Borrower shall (a) no later than December 31, 2001, carry out with the 
Association, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying out the Project.  The 
said mid-term review shall cover, inter alia, the (i) progress in achieving the 
objectives of the Project; and (ii) execution by the Borrower of its obligations under 
the Project; and (b)
carry out, no later than one month after the completion of 
the mid-term review referred to in paragraph (a) above the recommendations of said 
review as agreed upon with the Association and as set out in an action plan 
satisfactory to the Association. 
6.
The Borrower shall (a) by October 31 of each year, submit to the Association a 
draft work program and the draft budget related thereto; (b) finalize the said draft 
work program and related budget by taking into account the comments made by the 
Page  12
Association; and (c) carry out the said work program as agreed upon with the 
Association.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the terms “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
(i) $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account A pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; and (ii) $100,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account B pursuant to 
said paragraph 3 (a), provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to\0b(A) 
$150,000 in the case of the Special Account A; and (B) $50,000 in the case of the 
Special Account B until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000. 
2.
Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the relevant Special Account 
of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the relevant 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit 
into the relevant Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the relevant Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the 
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
Page  13
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures. 
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the relevant Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Accounts shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6  
Performance Indicators 
1.
By June 30, 2004, more than 50% of public investment programs of regional or 
local interest included in the three-year regional rolling public investment program 
in each PER for the following three years shall have been selected in accordance with 
local priorities identified by their RDCs. 
2.
By June 30, 2004, more than 50% of the total amount of public and private 
investments carried out in each PER shall have been financed by private sector 
entities. 
Page  14
3.
By June 30, 2004, at least 50 % of ERs shall have established their own RDCs. 
4.
By June 30, 2004, public investment projects carried out in at least two PER 
shall have been financed in accordance with the methodologies developed under the 
Project.
