Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13646-SLU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SAINT LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
DECEMBER 22, 1994
Country Department III
Human Resources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollars (EC)
EC 1.00 = US$0.37
US$ 1.00 = EC 2.7
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 30
ACADEMIC YEAR
September - June
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CAMDU        Curriculum and Materials Development Unit
CDB          Caribbean Development Bank
CEE          Common Entrance Examination
CEO          Chief Education Officer
cO           Curriculum Officer
CXC          Caribbean Examinations Council
DEO          District Education Officer
DMU          Data Management Unit
DTEAA        Division of Teachers Education and Administration, SALCC
EC           Eastem Caribbean Dollars
EO           Education Officer
EPDO         Education Planning and Development Office
EPU          Education Planning Unit
ETX          Educational Testing and Examinations Unit
GCE          General Certificate of Education
MOE          Ministry of Education, Culture and Labor
OECS         Organization of Eastem Caribbean States
OERS         OECS Education Reform Strategy
PIM          Project Implementation Manual
PMU          Project Management Unit
SALCC        Sir Arthur Lewis Community College
UWI          University of the West Indies



SAINT LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ......................  iv
BASIC DATA SHEET  .........................................    v
1. BACKGROUND  ...........................................    1
2. SECTORAL CONTEXT   .....................................    2
A. Current Educational Situation  ..............................    2
B. The Organizational Structure and Institutional Framework ....              .........   4
3. SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY  ..................   6
A. Issues .............................................    6
Quality and Effectiveness of Teaching and Learning ..............   6
Efficiency of the Educational System  .......................  11
Equity of Access to Educational Opportunities  .................   11
B. Government Sectoral Policy and Financing  ......................  12
4. SECTORAL ASSISTANCE STRATEGY  ...........................   13
A. The Bank's Role and Strategy ..............................   13
B. Bank Sector Experience and Lessons Learned  ....................  15
5. THE PROJECT  ...........................................   16
A. Project Objectives and Concept .............................  16
B. Detailed Project Description  ...............................   17
6. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN   .........                        ..        .............  25
A. Project Costs  ........................................   25
B. Recurrent Costs and Project Sustainability  ......................  27
C. Financing Plan  .......................................   28
This report is based on sector discussions over the 1993-94 period, culminating in a project
identification mission in May 1994, and subsequent project preparatory work carried out with a
Policy and Human Resource Development (PHRD) Fund grant from the Government of Japan,
complemented by preparation missions in June/July 1994 and appraisal mission in
September/October 1994 comprised of Ms. Karen Lashman (Principal Operations Officer and
Mission Leader) and Mr. Ralph Romain (Principal Education Specialist, ESP). Mr. Esteban Garcia
de Motiloa (Consultant) assisted in organizing project preparatory work, Mr. Marco Mantovanelli
(Consultant) assisted in project costing, Mr. Badrul Haque (Consultant) assisted in analyzing project
sustainability, and Ms. Ines Girsback (Consultant) in organizing preparatory work, project costing,
and compiling sector data. Ms. M. Christine Theodore provided support in document preparation.
Ms. Marlaine Lockheed (ESP) and Mr. Richard Cambridge (SA2DR) served as peer reviewers.
The Department Director, Project Advisor and Sector Division Chief were Messrs. Yoshiaki Abe,
Robert Crown and Julian Schweitzer, respectively.



7. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .............                 ..       .................  29
A. Project Management and Coordination  ........................  29
B. Institutional Arrangements ................................  30
C. Implementation Program  .................................  30
D. Procurement .........................................  31
E. Disbursements and Accounts ...............................  35
F. Financial Management, Accounting and Audits  ...................  36
G. Project Monitoring and Evaluation ...........................  37
H. Environmental Impact ...................................  37
8. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS .............................  38
A. Benefits  ...........................................   38
B. Risks  .............................................  38
9. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   ...............  39
A. Agreements Reached  ...................................  39
B. Recommendation ......................................   0
10. ANNEXES
Annex 1: Basic Education Statistics
Annex 2: Chart on School System Design
Annex 3: Organizational Chart of MOE
Annex 4: Impact of Adjustment of Teacher to Student Ratios
Annex 5: Project Financing Tables
Annex 6: Incremental Staff Positions in MOE
Annex 7: Studies to be carried out under Basic Education Reform Project
Annex 8: Project Costs
Annex 9: Estimated Incremental Recurrent Costs
Annex 10: Financing Plan
Annex 11: Technical Assistance Requirements
Annex 12: Implementation Program
Annex 13: Disbursement Allocations
Annex 14: Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators and Supervision Plan
Annex 15: Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
iii



SAINT LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
LOAN AND CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Saint Lucia
Implementing Agency:       Ministry of Education, Culture and Labor
Beneficiary:               Ministry of Education, Culture and Labor
Poverty:                   Not applicable
Amount:                    Loan of US$ 3.364 million equivalent
Credit of SDR 2.3 million (US$ 3.364 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Loan repayment in 15 years, including a grace period of 5 years,
with level payment schedule, and interest at the Bank's standard
variable rate; and Credit repayment in 35 years, including a
grace period of 10 years, at standard IDA terms.
Commitment Fee:            For loan, 0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing; for credit, 0.50% on undisbursed credit
balances, beginning 60 days after signing.
Flnancing Plan:            See para. 6.8.
Net Present Value:         Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:    13646-SLU
Map:                      IBRD 26505
iv






BASIC DATA SHEET
A.    General Country Data                                        Year           source
1. Population Estimate (thousand)                  156    1994                b
2. Population Projection (thousand)                 162    2000               a
3. GNP per Capita (US$)                           3,040    1993               b
4. GNP per Capita -- Real Growth Rate (%)           2.7   1993                b
5. Urban Population (as % of Total)                 45    1990-95             c
B.     Social Indicators
1. Crude birth rate (per 1,000)                    26.4   1992                c
2. Crude death rate (per 1,000)                     6.6   1992                c
3. Average Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)     1.6   1990-95             b
4. Total Fertility Rate (births per woman)          3.0   1992                b
5. Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births)    17    1991                 f
6. Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                 72    1992                c
7. Female Labor Force (% of total)                  n/a
C.    Education Data
1. Net Enrollment Rates (% of age group enrolled)
Primary                                           98    1993                d
Secondary                                         54    1993                g
Higher                                            n/a
2. Efficiency Data
Student/Teacher Ratio
Primary                                     27:1   1993                d
Secondary                                   17:1   1993                d
Dropout Rates (% per year)
Primary                                       0     1992               d
Secondary                                     2     1992               d
Repetition Rates
Primary                                       1    1992                d
Secondary                                     7     1992               d
Illiteracy Rates
Femnale                                      n/a
Total                                        n/a
3. Expenditure Data
Total Public Education Spending as a % of GNP     7     1994                a
Total Public Recurrent Education Spending as a % of Central Govt budget
24    1994                a
Shares of Public Recurrent Education Expenditures
Primary                                      50    1994                0
Secondary                                    27    1994                o
Higher                                       13    1994                a
Other                                        10    1994                a
Sources: a    Census, 1991 and Government estimate
b      The World Bank Atlas
c      Social Indicators of Development, 1994
d      Statistical Digest 1992-93/Ministry of Education Culture and Labor
e      Budget Estimates of St. Lucia 1993/94
f      Vital Statistics Report, St. Lucia 1991
g      Ministry of Education, Culture and Labor
V






SAINT LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
1.1   Saint Lucia is the most populous of the member countries of the Organization of Eastern
Caribbean States (OECS), with a current population of 156,000. In the 1980s, real annual growth of
gross domestic product (GDP) averaged about 7 percent. Sound economic management, with fiscal
savings amounting to about 10 percent of GDP annually between 1988 and 1993, coupled with expansion
of export markets for traditional products, and success in the highly competitive tourism industry,
contributed to this strong performance. Amid a rapidly changing external environment, however, GDP
growth slowed to 4 percent over the 1990-93 period. Social indicators reflect relatively high standards
of living, and limited poverty. Environmental awareness is high.
1.2    Despite sound economic management, its continued dependence on tourism and bananas, coupled
with vulnerability to natural hazards, renders the economy highly susceptible to external events. This
was most recently evidenced by the September 1994 tropical storm "Debbie," which resulted in an
estimated banana income loss equivalent to 7 percent of GDP. Increased competition in banana exports
from Latin American producers under the new European Union banana regime and the implementation
of NAFTA, combined with reduced concessional aid flows, are likely to impact adversely on economic
prospects. The country faces a difficult period of economic transition.
1.3   The recently prepared Medium Term Economic Strategy Paper and the National Environmental
Action Plan underscored the need for St. Lucia to reposition itself in the international economy. To this
end, St. Lucia recognizes that it must accelerate diversification while rapidly increasing the efficiency of
banana production. The success of its desired economic transition will depend in important part on
human resource development, thus ensuring a labor force well poised for an increasingly competitive
international economy. To secure the requisite modem labor force, standards of education and learning
must be raised significantly. This will necessitate a major reform of its education sector, with special
attention to enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency of the system, and the equity of access to
educational opportunities.



2. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Current Educational Situation
2.1    Strong political commitment to education in St. Lucia has been accompanied by sustained,
relatively high levels of public investment in school construction and allocation of the highest proportion
of public recurrent budget to education of any OECS country (averaging 22 percent over the past five
years). The education system is widely recognized as among the most advanced and innovative in the
Eastern Caribbean.  The expansion in coverage has been rapid. At the primary level, the present
network includes 84 schools, geographically dispersed across the nation's distinct regions, albeit heavily
concentrated in the Castries area. In 1993/94 a total of 31,487 children were enrolled in the primary
system, representing a gross enrollment rate of 128 percent and net enrollment rate of 98 percent. Thus,
the country has achieved almost universal access to primary education.
2.2    Though primary school coverage has increased, the actual number of children enrolled in primary
schools has been falling steadily in recent years (amid a slowdown in population growth to a current
average annual rate of 1.6 percent) from a peak enrollment of 32,809 in the 1987/88 academic year
(Annex 1, Figure 1). Primary enrollments decreased by 501 children between the 1992/93 and 1993/94
academic years alone. At present population growth rates, the primary school age population is projected
to decline further until around the Year 2000, and then remain more or less constant.
2.3    The attainment of almost universal coverage at the primary level, however, masks continuing
serious inequities in access to learning opportunities, as reflected in several indicators. First, many
primary schools are seriously overcrowded, particularly in the urbanized northeastern part of the island,
thereby hampering delivery of good quality education. Enrollment pressures, particularly in Castries,
have forced about 6 percent of primary students to be accommodated in schools with double shift systems.
There is also pressure on the system to maintain open classrooms in dilapidated buildings, posing serious
safety and health threats to children and teachers. Widespread overcrowding also precludes many
children from entering school at the age of five. At present, about 600 students over the age of 5 cannot
gain entry to primary schools in Castries. Such delayed entry increases the risk of repetition and dropout.
2.4    Notably, this overcrowding does not represent a nationwide supply constraint. In fact, a recently
completed school mapping exercise underscores that with the exception of the Gros Islet District, an
adequate number of primary school places exists throughout the country, assuming that all facilities were
well utilized. Key factors contributing to this overcrowding are: (i) parental preference for Castries
schools, especially among the middle class and civil servants; and (ii) the serious shortage of secondary
school places, as discussed below.
2.5    Strong pressure has long been exerted on the Government to expand school infrastructure in
Castries because a large proportion of the labor force is employed there. Enrolling children in close
proximity to work places enables parents to provide a free after-school refuge for their children in their
offices, as is common practice. The resultant heavy concentration of capital investment for primary
schools in the Castries area has tended to discriminate against those children whose parents reside and
work outside Castries. Many of these children are from relatively poorer families.
2.6    Serious access problems exist at the secondary level of the education system, with transition rates
from primary to secondary education among the lowest in the OECS. Notably, of every 1,000 children
entering primary school, only about 500 continue their education in bona fide secondary schools. (Annex
1, Chart 1) In 1993/94, even with the nation's 14 public secondary schools (including 12 government-run
and two government-assisted) filled beyond the capacity for which they were designed, only 9,721
2



students were accommodated, representing 54 percent of the 12-17 age cohort.' The two private
secondary schools provided only an additional 670 places for secondary education that year.
2.7    The exceptionally low transition rates from primary to secondary reflect serious constraints in the
supply of secondary places, not in the demand for them. In fact, any augment in places, as happened
in recent years largely through expansion of existing secondary schools and conversion of several junior
secondary schools into five-year schools, has been immediately filled (Annex 1, Figure 2). Thus, net
enrollments rose from 33 percent of youth 12-17 years of age in 1991, to its present level of 54 percent.
The 90 percent completion rate for those who enter secondary schools reflects the high value attached
to such education by those students who gain entry and their families. (Annex 1, Chart 2)
2.8    Notwithstanding progress made to date in expanding access to secondary education, the overall
shortfall in places remains significant. With a current cohort of secondary school age (i.e., 12-17 years)
of some 18,000 youth, the total number of secondary places would have to be almost doubled to attain
the Government's objective of universal access to secondary education. Thus, even with the planned
addition of 1,675 secondary places under this proposed project, and other school construction planned
in the medium-term Public Sector Investment Program, universal coverage would not be attainable until
well into the first decade of the next century unless significant additional resources can be mobilized
and/or efficiency measures instituted to release resources for further expansion of places.
2.9    Amid present shortages, secondary school places are severely rationed via the Common Entrance
Exarnination (CEE), commonly known as the 11 + exam, given at the end of Grade/Standard 7. Since
only one in two children gain entry to secondary education, the stakes on this exam are exceptionally
high, as perceived by students, parents and teachers alike (Annex 1, Table 1). Succeeding in the CEE,
thus, tends to become the driving force of primary education, particularly at the upper grade levels,
thereby substantially distorting teaching practices away from mastery of the curricula and toward the areas
to be tested on the exam itself.
2.10   Moreover, with such substantial shortfalls in secondary school spaces, each year significant
numbers of children who actually attain the benchmark passing score on the CEE cannot gain access to
secondary schools. In 1993, for example, some 375 students who received passing grades were not
placed and had to remain in primary schools.
2.11   Given shortages of secondary places, and a compulsory education cycle spanning ages 5 through
15, large numbers of children each year have had no educational alternative available to them except to
complete the compulsory cycle in all-age or senior primary schools, thereby leading to overcrowding at
the primary level with over-age youth. In the 1993/94 academic year, the all-age and senior primary
schools enrolled, respectively, 3,272 and 1,316 youth between 12 and 15 years of age. Notably, for the
vast majority of these students, this schooling reflects the terminal point in their formal education.
2.12   The system permits that some of those not admitted to secondary at the time of the CEE
ultimately gain entry to secondary schools via achieving the requisite scores on a Middle School Exam
administered at the end of the third year of senior primary school. In actuality, "second chances" are
extremely limited. Not only is eligibility to take the Common Middle School Exam (CMSE) open only
to those students attending the three senior primary schools, but generally poor performance on the
CMSE, coupled with the serious shortages of secondary school places, preclude entry for most. In 1993,
for example, only slightly more than one-third (36 percent) of those attempting the CMSE, or 153
students, achieved secondary school placement. Further, 43 students who attained the pass mark of 100
could not be assigned due to shortage of space (Annex 1, Table 2). Additionally, successful candidates
must enter at Form 3 level, in effect repeating one year of schooling, thus graduating from Form 5 one
' Preliminary data for 1994/95 indicate that secondary enrollments have increased to 10,229 students or some 57 percent
of this cohort.
3



year later than if they had entered through the CEE. Moreover, the shortages of qualified teachers to
serve these schools, coupled with the noted lower standards applied in the curricula itself, suggest limited
value-added to the education of youth over their three or so post-primary years of schooling, thus also
exacerbating problems of their absorption into the labor force upon leaving school.
2.13   The regressive effects of prevailing school location policies favoring Castries, which seriously
circumscribe the number of secondary school places in many other areas, are illustrated by the relatively
high average school transport costs incurred by parents residing in the southeastern portion of the island.
For example, even with a limited (and declining) Government-provided transport subsidy for secondary
students, the average household outlay to contract a bus driver to provide roundtrip transportation for
students from Micoud District to Castries is around EC$1,200 (or US$444 equivalent) per academic term-
-a significant financial burden for poorer families who typically have more than one child in school.
Further, while the Government transport subsidy has been reduced significantly in recent years, it still
represents a large burden on the education system budget, amounting in 1993 alone to US$750,000
equivalent, or approximately three-quarters of the construction cost of a new secondary school. This
underscores the desirability not only of extending the secondary school system to currently un- or under-
served areas of the country, but also of adopting a means test, as is used in other public social assistance
programs, to determine a student's eligibility for any public allowance for transport or other school-
related assistance.
B. The Organizational Structure and Institutional Framework
2.14   Organizational Structure. As in other countries in the subregion, the education system of Saint
Lucia is organized into four principal levels--pre-school, primary, secondary and tertiary education. Pre-
school education is voluntary; an estimated 80 percent of children attend at least some period of pre-
school programs, all of which are privately financed and delivered. As delineated in Annex 2, Chart 1,
students commence their compulsory education cycle at around 5 years of age at the primary level which
is organized into two phases: an "infant" program comprising three "stages", which many children
complete in two years, followed by a four-year "primary" education, encompassing four grades or
"standards. "
2.15   Those students who obtain the best scores on the Common Entrance Examination taken at the end
of Grade 7 are assigned to secondary schools where they pursue a five-year course of study, organized
into Forms 1-5. Upon completion of Form 5, those students who perform well enough in the Caribbean
Examinations Council (CXC) or General Certification Examination (GCE) have the option of moving into
tertiary education; the remainder move into the labor market. Given compulsory education through age
15, students who are not assigned to secondary schools subsequent to the CEE pursue a three-year "senior
primary" course, provided in all-age and senior primary schools.
2.16   Those students placed in this alternative, (upper primary school) stream follow one of two routes.
At the end of the senior primary course, those who pass the Common Middle School Examination are
given a "second chance" by being placed in Form 3 of the secondary school, to the extent that places are
available. For the majority of students, however, senior primary schooling reflects the terminal point
in their formal education. Presently, some 1,500 youth around 15 years of age exit senior primary
schools annually. Since national labor laws prohibit employment of youth until 16 years of age, the
ensuing hiatus between the end of their formal education and possibility of labor force entry places
numbers of youth at social risk. As a result, the Government is considering raising the compulsory age
for schooling to 16 years.
2.17   The country has one tertiary education institution--the Sir Arthur Lewis Community College
(SALCC). Within SALCC, courses are distributed across five units--the Departments of Nursing
Education and Midwifery and of Continuing Education, and the Divisions of Arts, Sciences and General
4



Studies, of Technical Education and Management Studies, and of Teachers Education and Education
Administration (DTEAA). Those students wishing to pursue more advanced studies attend overseas
institutes, colleges and universities. Until recently, Form 6, which prepares students for entry into
university level courses, was offered only at the SALCC. Given SALCC's location in Castries, access
was difficult for many students from the southern portion of the island. The MOE has introduced Form
6 at the Vieux Fort Comprehensive Secondary, effective the 1994/95 academic year, to open places for
students in the South. Assuming sufficient demand will exist to ultimately fill the new class, this holds
potential for cost savings over time both to families (who are spared the transport costs) and to the
system, given unit cost differentials between secondary schools and SALCC (see para. 3.41).
2.18   The Institutional Framework  Primary responsibility for educational policy and programs is
vested in the Ministry of Education, Culture and Labor (MOE). Beyond its role in formulating education
policy and standards, it designs and oversees operation of the school system, consistent with its mandate
under the National Education Act. It also is charged with ensuring that delivery of the nation's education
program is consistent with the Five Year Sector Plan.
2.19   Organizationally, the Ministry comprises eight discrete sections: Education, Communications,
Administration, UNESCO National Commission, Culture, Library Services, and Labor. (Annex 3, Chart
1) The Administration Section is responsible for all financing and budgeting activities of the sector, and
the Ministry's Examinations and Statistics Unit. The Education Section, under the management of the
Chief Education Officer (CEO), is assisted by a team of professional and support staff, including a
Deputy Education Officer, Education Officers for Infant, Primary, Secondary, Planning, Adult Education
and Curriculum, and six District Education Officers (DEOs) responsible for overseeing primary school
operations at their respective district level. The DEOs collaborate closely with the Curriculum Officers
(CO) from the Ministry's Curriculum and Materials Development Unit (CAMDU), the unit responsible
for developing, testing and disseminating education materials to the school system.
2.20   The overall administration is highly centralized in terms of personnel, resources and decision
making, with limited discretionary authority assigned to the district or school level. In addition, several
key posts remain vacant for extended periods of time in the already understaffed Head Office. At the
school level, principals are appointed with authority that is defined in the Education Act. The principals
assign teachers as "year" heads (each coordinating a primary school grade level) and department heads
(each responsible for a subject area at the secondary school).
2.21   Education data collection, processing and reporting and feedback to the system are inadequate
quantitatively and qualitatively either to inform management in a timely, reliable fashion, or to form a
basis for policy making in the sector. Limited staffing in the Examinations and Statistics Unit, coupled
with the lack of a well defined data collection and reporting system, and of computerized equipment,
preclude the timely processing of key education statistics. Moreover, financial and personnel records are
maintained manually, hampering effective monitoring and analysis of expenditures and staffing.
2.22   Presently, six education districts are operative, to each of which one DEO is assigned (although
one has had a long-term vacancy). The distribution of schools and teachers is highly uneven among these
districts, with Districts 1 and 4 encompassing one half the total number of teachers and 45 percent of all
primary schools (Annex 1, Table 3). Since DEOs have the primary responsibility for day-to-day
oversight of school operations, the size of the District as well as the capacity of the DEO has a direct
impact on the performance of this key role. In fact, most of the DEOs have had limited, if any, training
in educational administration. Given that the Government's decentralization plan ultimately expects all
publicly provided services to be organized into common administrative groupings, paralleling the
country's eight districts, it is anticipated that, over the next few years, two new education districts will
be created.
5



2.23   The church plays a significant role in education. It is formally represented by the Denominational
Boards and its authority to approve appointments of principals to church-affiliated schools is recognized
in the Education Act No. 18 of 1977. The majority (64) of the primary schools, and two of the
secondary schools are managed by a denomination, largely the Catholic Church, albeit that their operating
costs are met by the Government.
3. SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
A. Issues
1. Quality and Effectiveness of Teaching and Learning
3.1    Student Achievement. The thrust of educational testing to date has been on terminal exams
oriented toward measurement of aptitude and used as screening tools to select those students who will be
provided the opportunity to advance to the next level of education. Hence, no reliable indicators exist
to measure the quality of primary education within the primary cycle, either in individual schools or
across schools. Promotion is automatic, with no systematic test of achievement at the end of each grade
and, hence, no marker of an individual student's mastery of subject matter until the end of the cycle.
3.2   Student scores on the Common Entrance Examination (CEE), given at the end of Grade 7,
suggest low overall achievement levels. Of the 4,867 children who sat the CEE in 1993, only 2,400 or
49 percent received the passing grade of 100 or higher; of these 2,025 were assigned to secondary schools
(Annex 1, Table 1). CEE scores also indicate wide disparities in student achievement and hence, most
likely, in teaching and learning quality across schools and districts. For example, in 1993, secondary
school admission was gained by 81 percent of students sitting the CEE from one of the traditional primary
schools in Castries, with a mean CEE score at this school of 120. In contrast, only 6 percent of children
attending one of the Castries rural schools secured the cutoff score of 100 or higher and gained secondary
school admission (with a mean score in the latter school of 90).
3.3    Recent CEE results further suggest quality problems across the primary education level, with only
a slight improvement over 1988 scores (Annex 1, Table 4). In the CEE administered at the end of
academic year 1992/93, the mean scores in select areas within the core subjects were extremely low; in
mathematics problem solving, the mean score was only 12.0 out of a maximum possible raw score of 50,
and in the English summary and essay, 19 out of a maximum of 50. Moreover, large numbers
consistently fail select portions of that exam. Notably, girls outperform boys in all subjects on the CEE,
with 56 percent of girl candidates scoring at least 100 in the 1992/93 academic year, compared to 43
percent of boys (Annex 1, Table 5). The gender gap is marked in the language area.
3.4    As at the primary level, inadequate information exists to adequately assess the quality of
secondary education. Students with the highest scores on the CEE are assigned to available secondary
places. The relatively high secondary school completion rates belie the significant obstacles to learning
that most encounter, ranging from a large proportion of untrained teachers and inadequate equipment and
supplies in key subject areas, such as the sciences, to poor physical plant conditions.
3.5    Moreover, student and parental preference for secondary schools which generally achieve the
highest average CXC scores, in effect streams children between schools according to their CEE scores.
In the 1992/93 academic year, CEE scores of incoming secondary students ranged from 121.785-135.866
at the long established schools in Castries, to 100.50-115.202 at one of the newer secondary schools.
Students, parents and teachers expectations often low for those assigned to what are perceived as the more
6



marginal schools with large proportions of children at the lower end of the CEE distribution. This tends
to perpetuate often large differentials in student academic performance between schools, as reflected in
subsequent variations in scores in the CXC examination, taken at the end of the five-year secondary
cycle.
3.6    Like the CEE, the CXC, is an imperfect measure of student achievement or the overall quality
of education. Nevertheless, the overall results of the CXC indicate some slight improvement in scores
in recent years but still unacceptably low levels of student mastery of curricula throughout the system.
In 1992, for example, while almost all students enrolled in Form 5 sat the CXC exam, only slightly more
than one in ten (13 percent) of the 464 students who attempted four or more subjects at the general level
obtained passes at Grade II or better in four or more CXC or General Certificate of Education (GCE)
subjects-the criterion used for gaining admission not only to higher education but also to many jobs in
the Region. One in twenty of those attempting four or more subjects at the general level in 1992 failed
to pass any subject. Between 1992 and 1994, the number of students attempting at least four subjects at
the general/technical level as a proportion of the total number sitting the CXC increased from 35 percent
to 96 percent; however, only 15 percent received a Grade II or better pass in four or more subject areas
of those who attempted four or more (Annex 1, Table 6).
3.7    Significant inter-school differentials exist in student achievement and, thus, possibly in education
quality. In the 1993/94 academic year, almost half (46 percent) of the students who received 5+ passes
in the CXC/GCE subjects came from two traditional schools in Castries. This contrasts sharply with
many newer secondary schools, in one of which half of the students sitting the CXC exam, i.e. 47 of 93,
received no passes.
3.8    Factors Contributing to Low Achievement.  To date, no systematic analysis has been
undertaken of the causes of low student performance in many schools. Existing information, however,
suggests several key contributing factors. These include: (a) quantitative and qualitative problems with
regard to major education system inputs, particularly the teaching cadre, educational equipment and
supplies, and facilities; (b) inadequate supervision of instructional delivery by Curriculum Officers (COs),
District Education Officers (DEOs), and principals; (c) poor articulation of curricula and educational
standards within and between grades; (d) distortion of the primary curriculum by the pressure of
competition for secondary school places; and (e) weak institutional capacity to plan, manage or monitor
performance of a system that will respond to the needs of students of wide ability ranges.
3.9    Teacher Qualifications. Project preparatory studies have highlighted a state of crisis with regard
to the quality of teachers and teaching throughout basic education. High proportions of unqualified
teachers are engaged in the system. The situation is particularly critical at the primary level, adversely
affecting teaching and learning in the core subjects: English, mathematics, social studies and sciences.
3.10   Despite major progress over the last decade in expanding the intake and output of the teacher
training college, the Division of Teacher Education and Administration (DTEAA) of SALCC, only 62
percent of primary school teachers have been trained (i.e., completed a teachers college program).
Moreover, performance of the bulk of trained teachers, in terms of their mastery of content and method,
is barely distinguishable from that of untrained teachers. Many such primary teachers became 'qualified"
via a mass, short-term upgrading program in 1988 which has proven to have serious qualitative
shortcomings.
3.11   In St. Lucia, as elsewhere in the OECS, most candidates for primary teacher training are drawn
from the teaching service, that is from among those already employed by the MOE. The traditionally
generally low academic qualifications for entry into the system limit the number of candidates who can
easily master the curriculum of the DTEAA. The average trainee barely attains the passing grade in the
final examination of the teacher training program; thus, the comparatively high unit cost of teacher
training has limited payoff, in fact perpetuating a vicious cycle of low achievement among students,
7



because in part, they are being taught by many teachers who, even when trained, have limited attainment
themselves.
3.12   Teacher training problems are compounded by several factors. Among the most critical is the
continued heavy emphasis of the training program on content or mastery of subjects, with inadequate
attention to teaching methods, coupled with limited in-service training programs for these teachers upon
their return to the education system. Moreover, in-service training to date has been provided largely by
the MOE, with little input from, and hence feedback to, the teachers college which many have attended.
The absence of any teachers college outreach program hampers its considerable potential to contribute
to in-service training. Closer interaction and coordination between the teachers college and the school
system is essential to improve the teacher training program.
3.13   In pursuit of increased professionalization of the teaching corps, over recent years the
Government has raised the entry requirements for admission to the teachers college. All new teacher
candidates must have CXC passes in both English and mathematics. While this is a step in the right
direction, even more rigorous teacher training college entry and graduation requirements must be adopted
if desired teacher upgrading objectives are to be met. Additionally, since the teachers entering training
are drawn from teachers already working in the system, complementary steps will need to be taken to
raise the entry level for recruitment into the teaching profession, and establish some form of Teacher
Training Committee to give the MOE greater influence (as employer) over the training program.
3.14   At the secondary level, where expansion of enrollments has been rapid and for which no in-
country teacher training program exists, just 40 percent teachers are university graduates. The paucity
in the number of St. Lucian university graduates is striking, and is acute in select academic areas such
as science and mathematics (Annex 1, Figure 3). The lack of an adequate pool of trained national
secondary teachers has resulted in a high dependence on foreign contracted teachers, especially in the
sciences. Moreover, given the traditionally small number of secondary places, many teachers have
limited experience, with 43 percent in the service for five years or less (Annex 1, Figure 4).
3.15   Throughout the system, teacher performance is also adversely affected by poor working
conditions. The lack of basic educational materials and equipment to complement and support classroom
teaching and learning, and of minimum physical plant requirements, including electricity, water and
sanitation facilities, constitutes an obstacle to efficient performance. In some schools, especially the most
disadvantaged ones in terms of resources, teacher absenteeism and attrition rates are marked, the latter
particularly problematic among many younger, better qualified teachers who have employment
alternatives.
3.16   Unlike married teachers and other female civil service employees, traditionally pregnant
unmarried teachers were liable to dismissal, albeit that if trained, at the MOE's option, they could be
reemployed, after giving birth, on a month-to-month basis. However, after the second such pregnancy
the trained teacher was dismissed. Since some 80 percent of primary school teachers and 60 percent of
secondary teachers are female, this policy represented a significant waste of basic and in-service training
investments made in them, as well as was inequitable by comparison with Government policy in other
sectors. The Government recently rescinded this policy.
3.17   Performance Evaluation. Educational research has shown that the quality of education is highly
correlated with the intensity of supervision and monitoring and feedback in the system. In recognition
of this, St. Lucia has been the first OECS government to initiate several measures to strengthen
performance monitoring, particularly at the primary level. These include launching of an "Effective
Schools Project" initially targeted at problem primary schools as identified by CEE results and now
expanded nationwide. It also has instituted of a School Performance Assessment system. Under the latter
effort, some 10 schools per year are reviewed by a panel of personnel, and their performance assessed
against a comprehensive set of indicators, encompassing not only results in terms of student achievement,
8



but also administrative and organizational factors. These initiatives notwithstanding, no regular, system-
wide school performance review is undertaken; and although a form for conducting performance
evaluations of teachers and principals has been introduced, it has neither been refined nor universally
applied.  The lack of systematic performance evaluations hampers attainment of desired quality
improvements.
3.18   Curricula.  Curriculum development and educational materials preparation and production is
the responsibility of the Curriculum and Materials Development Unit (CAMDU) of the MOE. The Unit
is seriously understaffed to fulfill its functions, and has limited technical expertise in production and
publishing of educational materials. At present, 17 Curriculum Officers oversee the select areas of the
primary school curriculum with which they are charged. In addition to preparation of course materials
at the various grade levels, COs are expected to spend much of their time traveling to school sites to
observe classroom teaching and, complementing the work of the DEOs, providing technical support to
principals and teachers, as appropriate. Because of the limited number of COs relative to the size of the
education system, many schools experience long periods between such technical support visits.
Moreover, many of the COs have had limited formal training in the subject area for which they are
responsible, having advanced to CO from the general teaching cadre.
3.19   With regard to the actual curricula, at the primary level, analysis over the project preparatory
phase indicates that syllabi and teaching tend to focus predominantly on teaching of basic facts; limited
attention is given to developing critical thinking skills or fostering student research and investigation, even
in such core subjects as science. Recent intensive review and revision of the primary school's language
arts program by CAMDU has culminated in the development of a updated curriculum and new supporting
texts, the publication of which is soon anticipated. Similar curriculum upgrading is needed in other core
subjects. Project preparatory work further suggests the desirability of reviewing the language arts policy,
with special attention to exploring the potential in the early primary school years of building a better
bridge between English, the official language of instruction, and "creole," the first language of many
households, especially outside Castries.
3.20   Curricula at both the primary and secondary levels have become overloaded. In an attempt to
respond to demands for more diversified courses, particularly in the technical and vocational areas,
subjects have been added in an ad hoc manner, without adequate attention to their cost implications or
the integrity of the whole curriculum. As a result, primary schools are insufficiently focused on the
basic, core subjects and secondary schools often offer many uneconomical course options to students, with
average class sizes of less than 10 not uncommon in such subject areas.
3.21   Educational Materials.  At both the primary and secondary levels, current processes of
development or selection, publication, manufacturing, and distribution of educational materials, including
textbooks, contribute to their relatively high price and limit access to the poorest groups. Of major note
in this context is traditional contracting of publication of CAMDU-developed materials to foreign
publishing houses, which then must be re-imported to Saint Lucia, at comparatively high prices relative
to similar material sold elsewhere, with the bulk of the profit or royalties going to the publisher. Project
preparatory work suggests prices of textbooks and materials may be up to 20 percent higher than would
be the case with more cost-effective approaches, including potential joint public/local private sector
partnerships and international competitive bidding for publication and production of CAMDU materials.
At the same time, the MOE's present direct involvement in the stocking and sale to students of CAMDU
material may not be the most efficient approach vis-a-vis alternatives, such as transfer of this function
to private booksellers.  Such preliminary reports suggest the need for an intensive review  and
modification of present operating procedures.
3.22    A few of the CAMDU materials used in the schools have been manufactured (printed) in St.
Lucia. Some of the smaller runs of materials for teachers and pilot testing of new materials are printed
by CAMDU. With printing runs of 5,000 books representing an economical threshold, according to
9



analysis undertaken during the project preparatory phase, scope exists to increase local (particularly
private sector) participation in the provision of textbooks and other educational materials at the primary
level. To support a more vigorous program of testing and in-service teacher training and production of
supplementary materials, the capacity of CAMDU in desktop publishing would need to be upgraded. At
the secondary level, where the driving force of curricula is the CXC syllabi, adopted throughout the
Caribbean, and enrollment levels and hence the quantities of educational materials demanded are
considerably below that of primary schools, continued reliance on importing basic textbooks and
supportive materials is the most cost-effective option.
3.23   To fulfill its significant potential to improve curricula, and availability of supportive educational
materials, particularly at the primary level, and thus contribute to desired improvements in the quality
of education, CAMDU requires: (i) upgrading, as well as a modest expansion of its technical staff, with
special attention to building institutional capacity in educational materials preparation and production,
including editing and publishing, the latter of which will assist the Ministry to become more market-wise
in its contracting processes; (ii) furniture, equipment and supplies to permit it to expand desk top
publishing, as appropriate, as well as advance the publishing readiness of material it produces, thereby
reducing costs of external publication and manufacturing; (iii) improved methods of selection of secondary
textbooks from the broad choices available on the international market which are responsive to the CXC
syllabi.
3.24   Instructional Materials and Equipment. Shortages exist of equipment and supplies to support
teaching, with the situation most problematic at the primary level (i.e., lack of reading materials in
classrooms or libraries to promote reading, enrich vocabulary, enhance reading and writing skills; of
mathematics and science equipment; of maps, globes, etc. to complement social studies). Further, the
majority of schools lack basic equipment, e.g., reprographic equipment, to assist in providing
supplementary teaching material, or resource materials for teachers to draw upon to upgrade their skills.
Notably, many teachers at the primary and secondary level are not even provided with the required
textbooks for the given course of study for which they are responsible. Thus, like the students, they must
purchase copies from their own personal funds.
3.25   State of Physical Plant. The current state of much of the physical plant is not conducive to
adequate teaching or learning. Many primary schools were constructed in the 1970s when, with
substantial assistance from the Canadian Govermnent, the country embarked on a major education
expansion program. The two decades that have since passed, with minimal maintenance or repair of
facilities, have taken their toll. A survey undertaken in 1990, and presently being updated, documents
widespread deterioration, with half of all schools in need of repair or renovation with regard to plumbing,
roofing, ceilings, electrical wiring, corrosion of metal frames and columns (exacerbated by constant sea
blast), drainage, lighting and fencing. Many lack working lavatories.
3.26   School maintenance jobs are contracted out to private firms, under the oversight of the MOE's
maintenance unit, which includes a Chief Maintenance Officer and two regional maintenance officers,
one for the Southern and one for the Northern education districts, and one Building Officer. In actuality,
the limited budgetary allocation to maintenance, coupled with limitations on the monthly travel allowance
permitted for these maintenance officers, severely circumscribe preventive as well as repair-oriented
maintenance of plant. The system operates with no independent audit and no competitive bidding and
hence no guarantee that best prices are being obtained. The strain on resources is exacerbated by
widespread school vandalism. Efforts to adopt more innovative approaches to maintenance, including
provision of kits to select schools via financing from the CDB Basic Needs Trust Fund, have had very
limited success. While no research has been undertaken on this area, it is likely that the "open"
enrollment policy, in which many children do not attend schools within their own community, makes
more difficult the various attempts to create a sense of local ownership and hence collective responsibility
for protecting school property, or to mobilize community participation in maintenance.
10



3.27   Beyond pervasive disrepair, much school plant has inadequate space to support high quality
teaching or to permit adoption of innovative approaches, such as team or group teaching. For example,
staff rooms are cramped, serving far more teachers than their original design envisaged; many classrooms
must share one large room, separated only by movable blackboards, resulting in high levels of noise and
distraction for students and teachers. In several urban schools, excess enrollments have necessitated
conversion of resource rooms such as libraries and staff rooms into classrooms.
2.   Efficiency of the Educational System
3.28   Current teacher to student ratios are 1:27 at the primary level and 1:17 at the secondary level.
At the primary level, the ratio exceeds the reasonable Government prescribed standard of 1:35 (Annex
4). At the secondary level, in schools without a sixth Form, a ratio of 1:25 would be more appropriate.
Extensive research has shown effecting adjustments of this magnitude in the teacher to student ratio does
not adversely affect either the quality of education provided or the levels of learning and achievement.
3.29   The relatively high existing ratios reflect the absence of close monitoring of costs and efficiency,
and lack of detailed planning and programming of school enrollments and the recruitment and deployment
of teachers. A key underlying factor is the significant diversification of the curriculum in recent years,
particularly at the secondary level. The implications of the proposed reductions in teacher to student
ratios are significant. At the primary level, there will be a continuing decline in enrollments over the
next few years, reflecting demographic change. Consequently the demand for teachers will decline.
Special measures will, therefore, need to be carefully programmed to cope with these demographic
changes and, hence, reduced demand for primary school places. At the very least, there will be a need
to reduce sharply the recruitment of new teachers over a period of about five years, to transfer some
primary teachers to the secondary level, and to adopt revised strategies for teacher training, focusing on
attaining a 100 percent trained service and improving educational standards.
3.30   On the other hand, the implications of not effecting these changes to the ratios are serious. In
their absence, either qualitative improvements such as those to be supported under the Basic Education
Reform Project will not be able to be financed, or the Government will have to raise the education sector
share of the national budget to around 27 percent, which is highly unlikely given current and projected
fiscal constraints associated with the banana crisis.
3.31   Limited vigilance with respect to growth in the teacher to student ratios has exacted a heavy
financial as well as qualitative toll on the education system. The high proportion of the recurrent
education budget which presently is expended to meet salary and other personnel emolument requirements
(representing 95 percent of recurrent allocations to primary schools in 1993/94) seriously constrains
resource availability for other key educational inputs, particularly improved management, educational
equipment and supplies, and the maintenance of school plant and equipment (Annex 5, Table 2).
3. Equity of Access to Educational Opportunities
3.32   Significant gender inequalities in access to education exist in Saint Lucia, as elsewhere in the
OECS. Of increasing social concern are the significant gender differentials in student achievement,
commencing at the primary level, with girls outperforming boys on the CEE and subsequently at the
CXC. As earlier noted, at the primary level not only does virtually universal access exist. However,
given that the CEE raw scores are used to select students for secondary places, girls are securing the
predominant share of such places (as well as ultimately a rapidly increasing share of tertiary education).
Neither the underlying causes nor the long term consequences of this phenomenon are known, but the
potential negative ramifications for economic and social development already are raising alarms of a
country of "men at risk."
11



3.33   Further, the poor face special geographic constraints to access to good quality education. The
heavy urban, particularly Castries, concentration of secondary schools limits their availability to many
poor, rural families. At the same time, the weak CEE performance of many students attending schools
outside Castries restricts their access to secondary education, increasingly important for labor force entry.
3.34   Significant economic constraints to secondary education also exist. While public education is
provided free, with no tuition fee, other annual education-related expenditures which must be borne by
the household can be considerable. These include: uniforms; school bus transport, which as earlier noted
can average over US$400 equivalent per student per academic year; textbooks and other educational
materials which outlays have been estimated to range from around US$100 per student at the primary
level to US$370 equivalent at the secondary level; and various levies imposed by individual school's
administration. With regard to textbooks, the high average costs are attributable largely to two factors:
(a) the large number of textbooks required per subject, with overlap in material estimated to be on the
order of 80 percent; and (b) inefficiencies in procedures used for procuring textbooks and other
educational materials, which results in prices exceeding international market prices.
B. Government Sectoral Policy and Financing
3.35   Education Policy. National education policy is formally articulated in the 1992/93-1996/97
Provisional Education Plan. Consistent with the OECS Education Reform Strategy, that Plan assigns
highest priority over the five-year period to improving access to and the quality of basic, compulsory
education, encompassing the primary (Grades 1-7) through lower secondary (Form 1-3) levels, through
the following measures: (a) phasing out the remaining all-age primary schools; (b) upgrading the three
existing senior primary schools to full-scale secondary schools; (c) rehabilitating or replacing primary
school buildings, as appropriate, and constructing new secondary schools in un- and under-served areas;
and (d) standardizing the curricula across the island. The proposed structure of the education system once
this reform process is completed and is presented in Annex 2, Chart 2.
3.36   As an integral part of this reform process, the MOE has embarked on a pilot project to identify
the factors contributing to more "effective schools," and to attempt to replicate these factors, particularly
in poorer performing schools, as identified by the School Performance Assessment. Efforts are underway
to complement the terminal exams by introducing, on a pilot basis, minimum standards testing of students
at key, interim points in the education cycle to better measure the performance both of individual students
and, aggregating such results, of schools.
3.37   The strong commitment of the Government to education was reaffirmed in the 1994 budget speech
by the Prime Minister in which the linkage between accelerated human resource and economic
development was noted. Recent policy pronouncements by the Minister of Education further underscore
the Government's desire to move rapidly toward achievement of universal access to secondary education.
Notwithstanding the political commitment to sector reform, in addition to effecting changes in the
education system per se, it will be necessary to undertake institutional and policy reforms to attain desired
improvements in the effectiveness and efficiency of the system, and enhance equity of access to
educational opportunities and, ultimately, learning outcome.
3.38   Sector Financing. Policy commitments have been backed by relatively high resource allocations
to the sector since at least the late 1980s. Average annual outlays in education over the past five years
have exceeded 20 percent of total recurrent expenditures, and in 1993/94 amounted to 24 percent of such
outlays (Annex 5, Table 1). This proportion exceeds average allocations to education by other OECS
Governments, which represent about 17 percent of recurrent budgets. The share of the public budget
allocated to education is not likely to increase significantly over the near term. Thus, the Government
recognizes the need to assign high priority to improving the efficiency of use of education sector
resources.
12



3.39   Traditionally, the distribution of recurrent education expenditures by level of education was
similar to that of other Caribbean countries, with approximately 60 percent allocated to primary, 30
percent to secondary and 10 percent to tertiary education. However, since at least 1990/91 there have
been modest fluctuations in the allocations to tertiary education rising to about 13 percent of the recurrent
budget (Annex 5, Table 1). One must be cautious in interpreting these data, however, since this increase
reflects in part the expansion of Form 6, as well as increases in enrollment in such associate degree
programs as technical and vocational and teacher training. Notwithstanding these caveats, close
monitoring is needed to preclude any major shift in intra-sectoral allocations away from primary and
secondary education, given the serious problems confronting these levels.
3.40   In the public financing of primary and secondary schools, the mix of salary and non-salary
allocations is grossly inefficient. Salaries consume 95 percent of total recurrent allocations to primary
schools and 91 percent of the allocations to secondary schools (Annex 5, Table 2). At the two most
efficiently performing secondary schools, salary allocations represent only 83 percent of total cost. The
negligible allocation available to most schools for supplies, materials, equipment maintenance and general
operations, severely circumscribes the effectiveness of the teachers, especially at the primary level.
3.41   Significant variations exist in the per student recurrent expenditure by level of education. Unit
costs in 1992/93 ranged from US$323 equivalent at the primary level, and US$540 equivalent at the
secondary level, to US$3099 equivalent at the tertiary level, or almost 10 times that of primary education,
and almost six times that of secondary education (Annex 5, Table 3). Moreover, were the expenditures
on Form 6 to be reallocated from the SALCC to the secondary school where Form 6 is now being re-
introduced, the recurrent per student outlays of secondary and tertiary would be even higher.
3.42   Capital investment on education represented about 7 percent of the Government's capital budget
in 1993/94, consistent with the OECS regional average of 7 percent, but reflecting a decrease in the
sectoral share of the past few years (Annex 5, Table 1). The focus of past investment programs has been
rehabilitation of primary schools and construction of new secondary schools. According to the 1994-96
Public Sector Investment Program, the education sector will receive a significant 14 percent share of total
investment funds (Annex 5, Table 4). Notwithstanding the large capital outlays, major needs remain to
expand and upgrade school infrastructure.
4. SECTORAL ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. The Bank's Role and Strategy
4.1    The Country Assistance Strategy for St. Lucia, under preparation as part of a Bank regional
OECS assistance strategy, seeks to support the Government program of economic transition, with special
attention to: (i) acceleration of private sector-led economic diversification into tourism and export
services, with IDF grants mobilized to evaluate the potential for informatics and other export services;
(ii) restructuring of the public sector to ensure sustained adequate levels of public savings, while
promoting greater regional collaboration; (iii) human resource development and poverty alleviation; and
(iv) natural resource management. To these ends, the Bank is pursuing a three-pronged approach in Saint
Lucia, as elsewhere in the sub-region. First, through ESW, it is providing intellectual leadership, in
collaboration with the IMF and CDB, to strengthen the institutional capacity of the country to identify
priority policies and programs and effectively implement them. Second, the Bank is strengthening CDB
capacity in human resource development and environmental management, so that in full partnership with
the Bank, it increasingly can undertake ESW and lending in these key development areas, including the
13



channeling of increased Bank resources to these sectors through CDB. Third, the Bank is proactive in
donor coordination, including mobilizing the scarce external financing available to OECS countries, the
main forum for which coordination will continue to be the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development (CGCED).
4.2    The proposed project supports fully the CAS, targeting the priority area of human resource
development, catalyzing an education sector adjustment process to improve efficiency of public resource
use, providing a model for education sector reform to promote greater regional collaboration, and
working closely from project preparation through planned implementation and supervision with the CDB,
which is co-financier. Via the economic and sector work (ESW) carried out over the preparatory phase,
the Bank has sought to strengthen St. Lucia's institutional capacity to identify and implement priority
development policies and programs. To this end, with financial support from a grant from the
Government of Japan, throughout the comprehensive analytical phase of project preparation,
multidisciplinary teams comprising international consultants and consulting firms, local consultants and
local counterparts, assessed in depth key issues within the education sector, and collaboratively identified
cost-effective approaches to address them.
4.3    Notably, the project represents the first, pilot phase in a longer term program of assistance to the
OECS countries to meet their human resource development needs. By initiating an education reform
process in one of the most advanced, innovative education systems in the region, a number of cost-
effective approaches to education sector problems common throughout the OECS can be launched, with
a view toward their replication, as appropriate, in a subsequent project to encompass the other four active
Bank member countries in the OECS--Dominica, Grenada, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and St. Kitts
and Nevis.
4.4    To further promote increased regional collaboration, project preparatory work has drawn heavily
on Caribbean technical expertise. The use of a common core of consultants across the OECS countries
has promoted exchange of ideas between countries. Moreover, such project preparation has been carried
out in close consultation with the OECS Secretariat, building on its extensive work to formulate and
promote rapid implementation of an OECS Education Reform Strategy (OERS), to which the OECS
Governments are committed. The project emphasis on sector planning and institutional development,
qualitative improvement of basic education, and expansion of access to secondary education reflects the
priority actions identified in the OERS. Moreover, to the extent that this project is intended to serve as
a pilot for education system reform in the OECS, it provides a potential model for other OECS countries
to follow, thus helping to accelerate OERS implementation. Further, by strengthening the institutional
capacity of a key member country in the education sector, the project is expected to both complement
ongoing efforts of the OECS Secretariat to establish an Education Reform Unit, with support from the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), and to contribute to the Reform Unit, by enabling
St. Lucia to participate more fully in the OECS regional efforts.
4.5    The OERS envisages activities at both the national and regional level. While unexpected delays
have occurred in establishment of the regional machinery, at their meeting in Montserrat in November
1993, the OECS Governments agreed that the national governments should proceed with their own
urgently needed education investment programs, consistent with the Reform objectives. This project is
in keeping with that decision.  The proposed investments also are consistent with priority sector
development needs identified in the Bank report, "Access, Quality and Efficiency in Caribbean Education:
A Regional Study," prepared at the request of member governments in the Caribbean, discussed widely
in the region, and formally presented at the June 1992 meeting of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation
in Economic Development (CGCED), and the request emanating from that CGCED meeting for direct
Bank technical and financial support to accelerate human resource development in this region.
4.6   In order to achieve the desired transition of its economy, Saint Lucia is fully committed to
accelerate human resource development, consistent with the Provisional Education Plan. Key to a
14



successful transition will be reform of its education system to ensure that youth are well prepared to fully
participate in its rapidly evolving labor market. Such reform inherently will be a long term process.
Although quantitative, qualitative and policy challenges exist at all levels of the education system, the
logical starting point for this effort is at the compulsory, basic education level (Grades 1-9) where the
most serious problems of quality and equity of access to educational opportunities exist. This project,
thus, represents the first step in what is expected to be longer term IBRD, IDA and CDB support of the
economic transition process in St. Lucia.
B. Bank Sector Experience and Lessons Learned
4.7    The Bank has had limited sector experience in St. Lucia and other OECS countries. Its only
sector involvement was in support of the OECS Regional Vocational and Technical Education Project,
Credit 1785-CRG, in the amount of SDR 4.8 million (US$ 6.5 million equivalent) with a total project
cost of US$ 13.5 million equivalent, co-financed by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC) and the CDB, the latter of which also served as project executing agency. The Credit was
approved by the Board in 1987, became effective in 1987, and the Credit was closed on June 30, 1994.
While national coordinators were appointed by each of the five participating OECS Governments, the
locus of project implementation work was at CDB in Barbados. Consequently, the OECS Governments,
including St. Lucia, did not gain experience with Bank-financed project execution, procurement,
disbursement, and other procedures.
4.8    An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is in the process of being prepared for the Regional
Vocational and Technical Education Project. Review to date indicates that the overall performance of
the project was mixed. Notable achievements include a substantial increase in technical and vocational
education capacity in the participating countries, particularly in St. Lucia which accounted for the largest
single investment--construction of an extensive Technical and Vocational Education block at the SALCC.
Project investments also led to extensive overseas training of technical and vocational teachers for the
respective education systems. The pre-vocational curricula developed under project auspices, though
developed only for the first year of study and introduced too late during the project implementation to
be fully evaluated, holds promise of providing, with possible adjustments, a solid orientation to technical
fields to be pursued later through higher education. Notwithstanding actual and potential contributions,
the project also experienced significant problems. Many of the civil works experienced substantial delays
in start-up and completion of construction, leading to price increases and creating the need for long-term
storage of equipment and furniture delivered according to the original implementation schedule; and
pervasive lack of maintenance of new and rehabilitated facilities led, in the latter cases in particular, to
facilities being virtually indistinguishable within two years of completion of such civil works from those
without any "renovation." Problems also arose with regard to the quality and quantity of procured
instructional equipment, and as a result of insufficient attention to its commissioning and utilization.
Many of the problems relating to safety and security of equipment and civil works ultimately were
successfully addressed via an Action Plan collaboratively developed and implemented by the Bank and
CDB. Shortfalls in execution of other major project activities nevertheless hampered the full achievement
of project objectives. For example, the project laid the groundwork for labor market information systems
to provide needed linkages and feedback between tech/voc. training and the labor market; and three
countries produced labor bulletins. However, the lack of direct project financing for this, as well as other
"soft," institutional development-oriented areas, coupled with shortages of staff at the country-level,
hampered actual establishment of the planned systems, and the conduct of annual labor surveys on which
they depend. Weak consultant reports, and insufficient Government commitment or incentives, led to
abandonment of envisaged cost recovery and savings measures intended to ensure program sustainability.
Attempts were made to establish the envisaged Regional Training Board to coordinate tech/voc programs
across the OECS, building on experience gained by the project in establishing, with difficulty, several
National Boards; and a few regional meetings were held. However, insufficient commitment to such a
Board, and insufficient project resources to build the requisite policy constituency, ultimately undermined
such efforts.
15



4.9    Lessons Learned. Review of this OECS project, as well as of education projects in Jamaica
(Second and Third Education Projects, respectively Loan 727-JM and Loan 2070-JM), Barbados (First
Education and Training Project, Loan 1642-BAR), and Haiti (Third Education Project, Credit 1305-HA)
reveals that it is essential to: (a) link project objectives to the broader sector and macro policy objectives
to enhance overall commitment to, and hence success in execution of, the project; (b) carefully evaluate
local procurement and project implementation capacities to ensure that adequate and timely institutional
support is available for the smooth operation of the project; (c) ensure on an annual basis that
Government budgets provide the requisite project financing so that the planned pace and breadth of
project activities can be sustained, and the project completed according to schedule; (d) involve all major
stakeholders in an education reform process (i.e., the Ministry staff, principals, teachers and teachers
unions, and parents and community groups) from the early stages of project design; and (e) relatedly,
ensure that the policy environment within which the project will operate is supportive of project objectives
and enables conduct of the needed systemic and institutional reforms.
4.10   These lessons are taken into account in the proposed project design. The project objectives are
drawn from the St. Lucia Provisional Education Plan, recommendations of the OECS Education Reform
Strategy paper, endorsed by all OECS member governments, and the Bank's report "Access, Quality and
Efficiency in Caribbean Education: A Regional Study. " Extensive preparatory work has been undertaken
with a Japanese Grant to evaluate institutional capacities, and identify sector development constraints, in
order to ensure adoption of the most cost-effective approaches to achieving desired education system
improvements. This preparatory phase included wide consultation with all major entities in the sector,
including the Teachers' Union, the teacher training college, private sector employers, etc.  The
appointment of the Permanent Secretary of Education as the coordinator of project preparation, and
establishment of a team of persons to work with him from key departments of the MOE, working in close
collaboration with the Ministry of Planning, provided a valuable vehicle for dialogue on investment and
policy and institutional reform requirements. As civil works represent 56 percent of total project cost,
much attention was given in the project preparatory phase to development of prototype designs which take
into account local building standards and experiences, and environmental (including climatic) and other
factors. Emphasis also was placed on preparation of preliminary drawings for all facilities to be financed
under the project by a respected international architectural firm to preclude the significant civil works
problems encountered under the earlier Vocational and Technical Education Project in which excessive
reliance was placed on the local Ministries of Public Works, which proved to have limited institutional
capacity to guide this process. The selection and methods for procurement of educational equipment and
furniture have been carefully assessed to ensure that detailed technical specifications are developed with
participation of end users, high quality-low cost sources are identified and tapped, and comprehensive
plans exist for operationalizing and pilot testing new equipment, and training teachers in their appropriate
use. All these measures should considerably reduce the risk of repeating the serious problems in these
areas encountered in the earlier OECS education project.
5. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Concept
5.1    The proposed Basic Education Reform Project responds to a request from the Government of
Saint Lucia to assist it in initiating a reform of its education system. The decision to focus the project on
the basic, compulsory education cycle, and agreement on the scope of a possible project were reached
over the course of extensive dialogue over the 1993-94 period between Government officials and Bank
and CDB staff. The actual project content was defined and the components prepared over the June-
16



September 1994 period by the Government, with the technical assistance of a multi-disciplinary team of
international consultants and one consulting firm and local consultants, financed by Policy and Human
Resource Development funds from the Government of Japan.
5.2    The project has the overall objective of accelerating human resource development to ensure that
the requisite manpower exists to attain the desired economic transition in Saint Lucia. It supports the first
stage of a major reform of basic education, aimed at increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the
education system, and at enhancing equity of access to educational opportunities. To these ends, a dual
strategy will be pursued. The first part seeks to strengthen the planning and institutional capacity of the
MOE to guide and carry out the long-term development of the sector, while enabling it to initiate
significant, urgent measures to address system-wide qualitative problems and expansion needs at the
secondary level. As a second, integral part of the strategy, the project catalyzes a major adjustment
process, focused on revision to more reasonable levels of primary and secondary teacher to student ratios,
in line with ratios of countries at similar levels of economic and social development. Such adjustment
is critical to ensure that already relatively high levels of resource allocations to public education better
respond to current and projected needs, including increased financing for system management and
educational equipment and supplies, and school facilities and equipment maintenance--all of which areas
presently are significantly underfinanced. The planned adjustment also is crucial to ensure that sufficient
resources are available to support initiatives being launched under the Basic Education Reform Project
and, hence, that these reforms are sustainable. An impact analysis of this adjustment process, to which
the Government is committed, is provided in Annex 4.
B. Detailed Project Description
5.3    The project comprises three major components.  A  Sector Planning and Institutional
Strengthening Component would reorganize, upgrade staff, and create better linkages between key MOE
operating units; reinforce sector planning and analysis capacity, and formulate a long-term sector
development plan; initiate development of an integrated education data system comprising student, school,
financial and personnel information to facilitate improved sector analysis, administration and management,
and policy making; establish a permanent project development and management capacity within the MOE;
and finance special studies critical to guide future policy and program development. A Qualitative
Improvement of Basic Education Component would enhance the quality of teaching and learning, through:
upgrading basic teacher training and revising and intensifying in-service training for all teachers (with
special attention to science, mathematics and language arts) and, concurrently, ensuring their more
appropriate utilization and job satisfaction through improved personnel supervision, management and
career development; formulating and adopting improved curricula (especially in core subjects);
establishing an educational testing and measurement capacity to monitor student and system performance;
and identifying and instituting more cost-effective methods of selection, production, procurement and
distribution of educational materials. An Expansion of Access to Schools Component would increase
secondary places in the most underserved districts, and replace and increase places at the secondary
school destroyed by the recent tropical storm, all of which investments also will significantly reduce
overcrowding and improve educational opportunities at the primary level; and would provide funding for
urgently needed rehabilitation of selected primary schools.
Sector Planning and Institutional Strengthening Component
(US$0.9 million equivalent, or 8 percent of total base costs)
5.4    At the outset of project implementation, the MOE would conduct an audit of its organization,
procedures and functions with a view to rationalizing the use of existing resources (human and financial)
and improving its overall efficiency in guiding the education system. As an urgent, interim measure to
facilitate improved education planning and directly support project implementation, by Loan and Credit
Effectiveness, the MOE would reorganize its educational planning and development functions into an
17



Education Planning and Development Office (EPDO). The new Office will comprise three units-an
education planning unit (EPU), a project management unit (PMU) and a data management unit (DMU).
The DMU would be formed by the partition of the existing Examinations and Statistics Unit into: (i) a
Educational Testing and Examinations (ETX) Unit; and (ii) the DMU. The proposed new organizational
structure of the MOE is provided in Annex 3, Chart 2. As a condition of Loan and Credit Effectiveness,
the Government will have indicated in an agreed Education Strategy Letter to the Bank and Association
that an organizational restructuring of the MOE had been carried out to establish an Educational Planning
and Development Office (EPDO) with three constituent units--a Project Management Unit (PMU), a Data
Management Unit, and an Education Planning Unit (EPU)--and that the respective new posts had been
created within EPDO, and the funding for such posts had been included in the 1995/96 "St. Lucia's
Annual Estimates of Expenditure" request.
5.5    Over the course of project implementation, the Government has agreed that it will maintain these
three Units of the EPDO with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association and the Bank,
and that these Units will at all times be staffed with professionals with qualifications satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank, and be provided with adequate space to carry out their respective
responsibilities. It has been further agreed that during project implementation, select existing units of
the MOE will be strengthened via incorporation of additional staff, as delineated in Annex 6, which units
and staff are required to support project implementation.
5.6    Sector Planning. To meet the challenges presented by the education reform process, facilitate
introduction of timely adjustments to the system, and foster closer interaction of education systems across
the OECS, the project would assist in expanding and strengthening the EPU of the MOE, one of the first
tasks of which would be preparation of a long-term sector development plan for the period 1996-2005.
5.7    To these ends, the project would finance:
(a)    Fellowships (2 staff years) for two persons to pursue one-year advanced training in
educational planning; each would also have a short overseas attachment to an appropriate
planning unit.
(b)    Expert services (6 months, concentrated in the first two years of project implementation)
to assist the EPU to identify and analyze key sub-sectoral and sectoral issues, establish
approaches to long range planning and lay the groundwork for the long-term sector plan;
(c)    Office furniture, equipment and supplies, computers and related software and printers,
and equipment maintenance; and
(d)    Local training, via a series of workshops on education planning principles targeted at
school supervisory staff and selected principals to facilitate their understanding,
participation and cooperation in the planning process.
5.8    Project financing would also be provided to conduct select planning and policy-related studies and
surveys, to be carried out under the overall coordination of the EPU, and to include, in the first two years
of project implementation, studies on: education and training implications of economic and social
development and labor market demands (including the relationship of curricular trends to the requirements
of higher education and the labor market); teacher effectiveness and teacher attrition (in collaboration with
DTEAA); progress in achieving the goals of the Effective Schools Initiative via an impact analysis of the
school supervision and performance assessment systems; and a study of reading practices among the
population and use of the public library services. Studies for the third through fifth years of project
implementation would be identified and specified in the respective annual project work program, to be
approved by IBRD and IDA. At negotiations, the Government, IBRD and IDA reached agreement on
the targeted completion dates for the Project-supported planning and policy-related studies to be carried
18



out during the first two years of project implementation, as noted in Annex 7. It was further agreed at
negotiations that this timetable, as well as processing requirements for all studies, will be included in the
Project Implementation Manual.
5.9    Educational Data System  The project would assist in launching the first phase of development
of an integrated education data system, by establishing the DMU which would collect, collate, analyze
and disseminate statistical information on the sector and assist other units of the MOE in investigation
and research. A computerized data base would be instituted to include core integrated information on
students, enrollments, teachers, and schools as well as financial records and expenditures and personnel
records to support improved management, policy making and research. The data collection and analysis
systems to be adopted would respond to MOE management needs, including necessary linkages to other
data systems at the national and district levels, e.g., labor market information system; National
Accounting Office. The data system will be compatible with the planned OECS education reporting
system, thus facilitating exchange of information between OECS member countries.
5.10   The project would finance:
(a)    Fellowships (2 staff years) for two persons to pursue advanced studies, one in statistics
and one in a combined statistics and computer programming program. Of the two
statisticians, one would have a psychology or sociology background to support the MOE
in socio-metrics and psycho-metrics;
(b)    Expert services (6 months) to assist in establishing and operationalizing the DMU;
(c)    Local training, via a series of workshops to orient MOE headquarters and district level
staff and principals, teachers, and bursars at the school level to the new data system; and
(d)    Office furniture, computers, related software, printers, storage equipment, supplies, and
maintenance of equipment.
5.11   General Administration. In order to assist the MOE: to better rationalize and utilize sector
resources; to identify and elaborate strategies to adapt, develop and modernize education system
administration consistent with the evolution of the sector, including revision, as appropriate, of its laws
and regulations; and to incorporate these strategies in the long term sector development plan, the project
will provide:
(a)    Fellowships (2 staff years) for two persons to pursue one-year advanced training in
financial management and analysis and education administration, respectively;
(b)    Expert services (4 months) to conduct an audit of the MOE management system and
assist in the implementation of reforms, as needed, to rationalize its administrative and
organizational structure and functions; and to assist in the conduct of a technical and
administrative evaluation of the MOE for the mid-term project implementation review to
assess progress in its restructuring and provide recommendations for future improvements
in its structure, staffing, procedures, etc;
(c)    Study tours (3 months) for two senior staff to review education reform processes in other
countries and attend relevant seminars and courses in such areas as effective schools and
education policy analysis; and
19



(d)    Supplementary office equipment and supplies, to complement existing MOE equipment
including for the additional staff to be hired to meet education reform process needs,
equipment maintenance, and literature and reference material for professional updating
on educational developments worldwide.2
5.12   Project Management and Development. As noted in paragraph 5.4, at negotiations it was agreed
that a project management unit (PMU) would be established and maintained, with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and the Association, to include inter alia: (a) coordination of
project implementation; (b) project monitoring and evaluation; and (c) preparation of the requisite annual
and mid-term project reports (see paragraphs 7.26-7.28). As further agreed, the PMU would be headed
by a full-time Project Manager, assisted by two other full-time professional staff, a Procurement Officer
to oversee procurement, and an accountant to manage project accounts, to be supported by clerical staff.
To the extent possible, administrative and operating procedures to be adopted for execution of the Basic
Education Reform Project would become the modus operandi of the MOE in these respective areas.
These PMU personnel will not be financed under the project. As further agreed at negotiations, the PMU
will be established as a permanent entity within the Ministry of Education, and upon Project completion,
would assume responsibility for management of all projects executed by the MOE.
5.13   To support strengthened project management and development objectives, the project would
finance:
(a)    Four (4) months of study tours for three PMU staff to gain experience and skills in areas
relevant to their responsibilities in the Unit, such as review of operations of Education
Project Management Units elsewhere in the Caribbean (e.g. Barbados, Jamaica and
Trinidad & Tobago), and/or to attend World Bank or CDB seminars on topics such as
disbursements/accounting, procurement, etc., and for short-term attachment of the
Procurement Officer to a suitable procurement agency for training purposes;
(b)    Expert services (10 months) to include: 8 months of full-time services of a Project
Management Expert to assist in project coordination and in setting up the PMU and
establishing its procedures; and 2 months of services of a Procurement Expert to assist
the PMU team at critical points in the procurement process; and
(c)    Office furniture, equipment and supplies, including computers, related software, printers,
photocopier, etc., and equipment maintenance.
Qualitative Improvement of Basic Education Component (US$2.8 million equivalent, or 25 percent
of total base costs)
5.14   The generally poor quality of primary education constrains many students from fully benefitting
from a secondary education program, even when it is available to them. Hence, concomitant with
expanding access to secondary schools, thus increasing educational opportunities, the project assigns high
priority to improving the quality of primary education, particularly in the core subject areas. This
component, encompassing improvement of major educational inputs--teachers, curricula, educational
materials, testing and measurement, and supervision--is expected to lead to significant improvements in
educational outcome in terms of learning and student achievement.
5.15   Substantial improvements in CXC performance are expected to accrue from the quality-oriented
2 Relevant literature and reading materials needed for all institutional strengthening and quality improvement components
are included under this area of project support. These materials would be consigned to the MOE Documentation Centre for
optimal organizing and accessibility.
20



project investments at the primary and secondary level. Notwithstanding such potential, over the
immediate term the education system still must face the problem of many poorly qualified students leaving
at the end of Form 5 inadequately prepared for the labor market or higher education. The Government's
longstanding policy of not permitting repetition of the fifth Form of secondary schooling has served, in
fact, to permit admission of far more entrants to the first year of tertiary education than would have been
the case were there no such automatic promotion policy. This policy, however, has imposed a high cost
on the education sector by forcing the tertiary system to provide remedial secondary education to many
students at a per capita cost much higher than at the secondary level (Annex 5, Table 3). The provision
of three new secondary schools under the project provides an important, heretofore absent, but only short-
term window of opportunity: it would permit selected students demonstrating academic promise, but not
successful in some subjects in their initial CXC attempt, to gain a second chance by spending one
additional year in a secondary school with good facilities and trained teachers. Additional space at Forms
4-5 in the new secondary schools could be used to provide these selected students a special intensive
course in three to four CXC subjects. Such a program could increase, at relatively modest cost, the
number of qualified secondary graduates available for labor market entry and higher education. At the
same time, such a window will exist only for a short period, as new secondary school intakes at Forms
1 and 3 advance up the grade ladder, ultimately filling all available secondary school space. Hence, this
opportunity should be promptly exploited.
5.16   To contribute to enhanced educational quality objectives, as well as provide a basis for the more
effective participation of St. Lucia in the OECS Education Reform Strategy initiative, the project will
support five closely integrated and inter-dependent areas, as follows.
Teacher Training. This subcomponent seeks to improve teacher training at the basic and in-service levels
and, thus, contribute to improved teaching and ultimately learning through financing two principal types
of investments:
(a)    Fellowships (4 staff years) to train staff of the DTEAA of SALCC as teacher educators,
to include one candidate for each of the four core subject areas, i.e., science,
mathematics, language arts and social studies.  To this end, at negotiations, the
Government agreed to ensure that members of the academic staff of SALCC  are
designated to receive fellowships under the project in order to strengthen SALCC teacher
trainer capabilities;
(b)    Fellowships (24 staff years) to train 8-123 persons to the undergraduate degree level in
science and mathematics teaching, thus reducing secondary school teacher shortages in
these critical areas; and
(c)    Conduct of in-service training programs for primary school teachers oriented toward
content and teaching methods/pedagogy. The program would support development of,
and provide a systematic summer in-service training and upgrading system for teachers
at two levels: (i) the basic level, to raise to an acceptable level the competence of
teachers in the four core subject areas; and (ii) the advanced level to facilitate
specialization in the teaching of the core subject areas. The program would draw on the
services of staff of DTEAA, secondary schools, SALCC, and UWI, as needed, and take
full advantage of suitable existing materials. The scope of this program will be agreed
upon in advance with the Bank on a year-to-year basis, as part of the annual project
programming exercise. Overall, it is projected that, the basic level training will serve
3 As the exact educational background of the prospective candidates will not be known until they have been selected
competitively, the amount of time required for each to earn the proposed B.Ed. degree, and thus the amount of financial support
that would be required for each candidate, cannot be precisely determined at this stage. However, the total number to be trained
will be circumscribed by the available funding for this subcomponent.
21



about 300 teachers and the advanced level around 225 teachers. Those teachers
successfully completing the advanced level training courses would be given an increment
within their salary scales. The project would provide funding for lecturers' fees and per
diem for overseas lecturers, costs of materials and supplies to support the in-service
training program, and supplementary travel allowances for trainees, consistent with
eligibility criteria specified in the Project Implementation Manual.
5.17   Curriculum Development. To provide the requisite technical expertise to continually review and
revise, as appropriate, the syllabi for the primary and lower secondary curricula, with special attention
to the core subjects--mathematics, language arts, social studies and science, and the need to streamline
the curricula, the project would strengthen CAMDU, via financing of:
(a)    Fellowships (4 staff years) for four persons to pursue one-year advanced level training
in curriculum design, research and evaluation, each fellow to specialize in one of the four
core subject areas;
(b)    Expert services (4 months) to assist in and advise on curriculum design and research and
to help establish a system for continuous evaluation and upgrading of curricula;
(c)    Supplementary furniture, equipment and supplies, including computers, software, data
storage equipment, printers for CAMDU and equipment maintenance; and
(d)    Local training, via workshops for curriculum officers, principals and teachers to be
conducted by the returned fellows.
5.18   To support improved curricula at the school level, the project would finance:
(a)    Science kits (including priority science equipment identified during the preparatory phase
to support the curriculum) and related storage units for this equipment for the 84 primary
schools, to complement equipment and training being provided by United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the Organization of
American States (OAS) Basic Education Project, thus further enhancing science teaching;
(b)    On a pilot basis, in one new and two existing secondary schools that have a business
studies program, a computer lab to help to familiarize teachers and students with broad
computer applications, including interactive learning techniques and the CXC information
technology course; and
(c)    Science equipment and supplies to supplement existing laboratories in 8 secondary
schools presently inadequately equipped (Micoud, Dennery, Corinth, Entrepot, Choiseul,
Vieux Fort Campus A, Vide Bouteille, and George Charles).
5.19   Production and Procurement of Educational Materials. The project also would strengthen the
capacity of CAMDU to prepare and produce educational materials (including textbooks, supplementary
materials, teacher support materials, etc.). With expert assistance, MOE would review cost-effective
options regarding preparation, publication, manufacturing and distribution of textbooks and supporting
materials, with a view to maximizing local (including private sector) participation in these processes, as
appropriate. MOE would also adopt improved methods of textbook selection, standardizing and
streamlining the number of textbooks per subject, to the extent feasible, as well as exploring additional
measures to ease the financial burden of textbook purchase on parents.
22



5.20   In specific, the project would provide:
(a)    Fellowships (2 staff years) for two persons holding degrees to pursue one-year advanced
training, one in general editing and publishing and the other in art editing and publishing,
including subsequent attachments to appropriate publishing houses;
(b)    Expert services (8 months) for two specialists to include: (1) 6 months of assistance to
help the MOE to reshape, as appropriate, its policy and role in regard to preparing,
publishing and distributing educational materials and to evaluate and adopt, as
appropriate, alternative methods of procuring materials, and (ii) 2 months of assistance
to advise on educational materials production and desktop publishing. Both experts
would train local staff in publishing and production tasks;
(c)    Office furniture, equipment and supplies to support expanded and improved manuscript
development, word processing and desk top publishing, etc., and equipment maintenance;
(d)    Funding for a limited supply of basic textbooks for use by teachers at all primary and
secondary schools; and storage units for primary textbooks; and
(e)    Funds for local printing of new educational materials to be pilot tested.
5.21   Educational Testine and Measurement. To implement project-supported testing and measurement
activities, an Educational Testing and Examinations (ETX) Unit would be established within the MOE.
The principal functions of the Unit would be to: (a) evaluate and modify, as appropriate, current terminal
examinations given at the end of primary and lower secondary education, i.e., the Common Entrance
Examination, Common Middle School Examination, and the School Leaving Certificate Examination;
(b) develop, pilot test, and introduce new marker exams to be given nationwide at Stage 3 and Standard
2 of the primary school and Form 3 of the secondary school (Grades 2, 4 and 9, respectively) to better
measure student and school performance; (c) develop norms for, and standards of, achievement; and
(d) conduct research on achievement.  To these ends, at negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that, not later than March 31, 1996, it would have established, and subsequently would
maintain within the MOE, such an ETX Unit, with functions and responsibilities, and staffed with an
adequate number of professionals with qualifications and responsibilities, satisfactory to the Bank and
Association; and that the ETX at all times would be provided with adequate, secure, air-conditioned
space, and the necessary transport to support timely, effective implementation of this project
subcomponent, with one vehicle to be assigned full-time to the ETX.
5.22   To complement project-financed activities, local on-the-job training would be provided to include
item writing workshops as well as orientation seminars for principals and teachers in the interpretation
and constructive use of test scores. To directly support the new ETX Unit, the project would provide:
(a)    A Fellowship (1 staff year) for one person to pursue advanced studies in Educational
Testing and Measurement, thus complementing current Government efforts to build such
capacity through its support for ongoing overseas training of two persons in this field.
A suitable short-term attachment subsequent to training (possibly at the Caribbean
Examinations Council--CXC) would be arranged for the fellowship holder.
(b)    Expert services (9 months) to assist in establishing the ETX Unit;
(c)    Installation of a vault and other facilities to ensure the security of testing materials;
(d)    Office furniture, equipment and supplies for data analysis, word processing, scoring
(including optical scanning), desktop publishing, and equipment maintenance; and
23



(e)    Funding for studies, including pilot testing of new tests, establishment of norms and
standards of achievement and for school evaluation (including school-based continuous
assessment), development of curriculum evaluation methodologies, and studies of learning
differentials, with special attention to gender disparities in achievement.
5.23   School Supervision.   The project seeks to build the capacity of the district level school
supervisory service to better monitor and assist the schools in such key areas as: (a) performance
assessment of teachers, principals and schools, and (b) in-service training and orientation of teachers and
principals in school management concepts, and effective school operations. To support these objectives,
the project would provide:
(a)    Fellowships (2 staff years) for two persons to pursue one-year programs in school
supervision, with particular attention to training in methods of promoting school
effectiveness, coupled with brief attachments to relevant external agencies; upon
completion of training, fellows would be assigned to the District Education Offices or
central Ministry;
(b)    Expert services (3 months) to review progress to date in establishing the School
Performance Assessment system, and the effective schools initiative, and advise on
approaches to strengthen supervision and school performance;
(c)    Construction and establishment of a new District Education Office in Vieux Fort and
extension of the existing one at Choiseul, both to include office space for the respective
EOs and field work of curriculum officers, a lecture room for seminars and workshops,
meetings, etc. and a library for teachers and education staff; and
(d)    Furniture, equipment and supplies, including computers and software, for the new and
expanded District Education Offices and instructional aids and reprographic equipment
and supplies to improve operations at the existing District Offices in Micoud and
Soufriere; and equipment maintenance.
5.24   To complement project-financed activities under this sub-component, local on-the-job training
would be carried out by the MOE to include:
(a)    periodic training courses for supervisors and principals to keep them abreast of system
developments/reforms in planning, curriculum, testing, educational materials and teacher
training, thereby helping to build the requisite support system for the reform process; and
(b)    training by supervisors and other specialized MOE and DTEAA staff, as required, for
principals and teachers on the above topics, with the same objective; and
Expansion of Access to Schools Component (US$7.5 million equivalent, or 67 percent of total base
costs)
5.25   The project would expand access to basic (in particular, secondary) education and assist the MOE
to rehabilitate selected primary schools in urgent need of such action. A school mapping exercise
conducted by the MOE planning staff, with expert assistance, during project preparation highlighted the
importance of redressing serious shortfalls in secondary school places, while concomitantly achieving a
more equitable geographic distribution of such places and improving primary to secondary transition
rates. The project-supported increase of 1,675 secondary places, distributed outside of Castries, will both
relieve current overcrowding at select primary schools and ease existing high pressure on the primary
24



curriculum exerted by the CEE bottleneck. This additional space, coupled with planned adjustments to
the teacher to student ratios over the project implementation period, are expected to permit primary to
secondary transition rates to rise to around 66 percent by the Year 2000.
5.26   To these ends, the project would finance:
(a)    Civil works, furniture and equipment, and equipment maintenance for three new
secondary schools to increase coverage in presently un- or under-served areas, as
identified by the school mapping exercise, i.e., at Laborie, Laborie District (525 places);
Babonneau, Gros Islet District (525 places); and Anse Ger, Micoud District (525 places);
and for replacement of the Soufriere Comprehensive School (700 places, or a net addition
of 100 places) destroyed by the September 1994 tropical storm "Debbie;" and
(b)    Rehabilitation of selected primary schools with urgent needs, as identified in an
October/November 1994 school facilities inventory, through an intensive program,
concentrated over the initial two years of project implementation, and targeted toward
those civil works which could contribute to a significant improvement in the operations
of such schools, subject to a ceiling of US$100,000 equivalent for any discrete
rehabilitation work.
5.27   To complement project-financed activities, the Government, via the MOE, would undertake the
training of select school staff in preventive maintenance and mobilization of community support for
maintenance, utilizing the kits provided by the CDB Basic Needs Trust Fund.
6. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Costs
6.1    The total project cost is estimated at US$12.838 million equivalent, including duties and taxes
(US$0.721 million equivalent) and physical and price contingencies. The foreign exchange component
represents US$9.0 million equivalent, or 70 percent of total project cost. A summary of project costs
by major component and subcomponent is provided in Table 6.1. As highlighted, as a percentage of base
costs, financing for the three major components is as follows: Sector Planning and Institutional
Strengthening (8), Qualitative Improvement (25), and Expansion of Access (67). Table 6.2 provides
project cost by key categories of expenditure, disaggregated by investment and recurrent costs. Detailed
cost tables are provided in Annex 8.
6.2    The cost estimates are based on prices as of September 1994. To the base cost of the civil works
related to construction of three new and one replacement secondary schools and district education offices,
12 percent has been added to cover the costs of professional, consultant services, to meet the needs for
architectural design and tender preparation (5 percent), and contract administration (7 percent). To the
base cost of civil works relating to establishment of the new Examinations and Testing (ETX) Unit and
those relating to primary school rehabilitation, 7 percent has been added to cover the costs of consultants
for civil works who will be contracted for design review or preparation, where necessary, to oversee
construction, and to provide the IBRD and IDA or CDB, depending on the financing source, with the
requisite certification that work has been efficiently, fully and satisfactorily completed.
25



Table 6.1
St. Lucia
Basic Education Project
Components Project Cost Sunrnary
%     % Total
(EC$ '000)               (USS$ 000)        Foreign   Base
Local  Formign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange Costs
A. Sector Planng & Inst Strengthg              303    2,254    2,557    112    835       947       88       8
B. Qualitaive kprovent                        1,346    6,144    7,490    498   2,276    2,774       82      25
C. Expansion of Acces                         7,391   12,885   20,276   2,737   4,772    7,510      64      67
Total BASEUNE COSTS                            9,040   21,284   30,323   3,348   7,883   11,231     70    100
Physical Contingencie                        987    1,889    2,876    366    700    1,065         66       9
Price Contingencis                           500    1,109    1,609    168    373        542       69       5
Total PROJECT COSTS                           10,526   24,282   34,808   3,882   8,956   12,838     70    114
Table 6.2
St. Lucia
Basic Education Project
ExpendIture Accounts Project Cost Sunmnary
:S      S Total
(EC$ '000)               (US$ '@00)       ForeIgn  Bs
Local   Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign Total    Exchang Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. CIvI Works                               6,559    9,838   16,397   2,429   3,644    6,073      60      54
B. Goods                                     419    5,808    6,227     155   2,151    2,306       93      21
C. Training                                  747        0      747    277        0      277        0       2
D.Technical Assistance                       985    5,352    6,337    365   1,982    2,347        84      21
E. Studies                                   251      167      419      93      62      155       40       1
TotalinvestnentCosts                          8,961   21,165   30,126   3,319   7,839   11,158      70      99
II.Recurrent Costs                              79      118      197      29      44       73       e0       1
Total BASEUNE COSTS                           9,040   21,284   30,323   3,348   7,883   11,231      70    100
Physical Contingencies                       987    1,889    2,876    366    700    1,065         86      9
PriceContingercls                            500    1,109    1,609    168    373        542       69      5
Total PROJECT COST                           10,526   24,282   34,808   3,882   8,956   12,838      70    114
26



6.3    Contingency Allowances. Total contingencies of US$1.6 million equivalent represent 14 percent
of baseline project cost. These include physical contingencies of US$1.1 million equivalent, averaging
9 percent across the discrete components. Price contingencies (US$0.5 million equivalent), represent 5
percent of project baseline cost, and are based on the following assumptions: (a) a local inflation rate
of 3.6 percent in 1995, and 3.0 percent per year thereafter; and (b) price increases for foreign costs,
estimated in US dollars, of 3.3 percent in 1995, and 2.7 percent for the remaining four years of project
implementation. Cost calculations also assume a nominal, constant exchange rate of EC$2.7 to US$1.00
for the five-year project implementation period.
B. Recurrent Costs and Project Sustainability
6.4   Incremental Recurrent Costs. Incremental recurrent costs to be generated by this project are
estimated to be US$0.46 million equivalent in 1995 and to rise thereafter to about US$2.4 million
equivalent by the end of the decade in current prices. Detailed estimates of incremental recurrent costs
to be generated by the project are presented in Annex 9. These additional costs are attributable mainly
to: (a) increased allocations required to adequately staff and operate the key units of the MOE involved
in the education reform process; (b) operational and maintenance costs for the three new schools and
additional 100 student places at the replacement secondary school to be constructed with project financing
and for the equipment and furniture to be provided for the new, replacement and existing schools; (c)
maintenance costs for the buildings to serve as the new District Education Office in Vieux Fort, and the
expanded office in Choiseul, and for maintenance of the furniture and equipment to be provided to four
district education offices (including the new and upgraded one, and existing DEOs in Soufriere and
Micoud); and (d) maintenance costs for other equipment and supplies to be procured under the project,
including computers and software for computer labs to be established in select schools, science equipment
for primary and secondary schools, and for equipment for curriculum development, teaching materials
production, and testing and examinations.
6.5    Within these overall incremental recurrent costs, those associated with the various measures to
be taken to improve the quality of education, as well as with the additional positions to be created to
strengthen educational administration, and the overheads related to enhanced administration of the system,
are projected to be US$1.3 million in the Year 2000. These incremental costs will be offset by the
US$1.5 million equivalent in savings projected to be generated by that year from the downward
adjustments in the teacher to student ratios planned for the 1995-2000 period (Annex 4.).  This
underscores the importance of rapid implementation of, and adherence to, such an adjustment process.
6.6    Project Sustainability.  The proposed project enjoys broad political support, with planned
qualitative improvements and expansion of access to secondary education widely viewed as essential to
achieve desired economic growth and social development objectives. Requisite Government financing
for the project, including its contribution of US$2.3 million equivalent (net of taxes), and incremental
debt service associated therewith, can be easily met, as they represent less than 0.3 percent of GDP.
Further, projected annual incremental recurrent costs of US$2.4 million equivalent in current prices, to
be generated by the end of project implementation, are less than 0.4 percent of GDP (Table 6.3).
27



Table 6.3. Average Annual Fiscal Implication of the Proposed Basic Education Project
(In Percent of GDP)
1995-99    2000-2010
Estimated Incremental Cost          0.27         0.34
Incremental Debt Service            0.00         0.06
Total Incremental Cost              0.27         0.40
Memorandum item:
Public Sector Current Surplus       7.96         8.00
6.7    The technical assistance program included in this project, detailed in Annex 11, has been designed
to maximize development of local expertise and capacity in order to sustain project benefits well into the
future. The mix of expert services and fellowships, structured to complement one another, emphasizes
staff development. Orientation seminars and study tours have been included to familiarize senior staff
with key aspects of educational reform. Eligibility criteria for all project-supported training will be
specified in the Project Implementation Manual. Fellows will be selected with attention to their capacity
to benefit from the respective training program and the program will be tailored to their job needs in St.
Lucia and be complemented in several cases by short attachments to relevant agencies or entities abroad.
These fellows will be drawn largely from the public service (teaching and the civil service). Their job
experience will sharpen awareness of their own training needs. In keeping with normal Government
policy, all fellows will be bonded for a duration of time pro-rated with the length of their training. Upon
completion of training and return to St. Lucia, all fellows will be expected to produce reports on their
training experience and to conduct seminars to disseminate their newly acquired knowledge to others.
Most of the expert services will be provided in a series of short term consultancies, with these services
timed in order that: (a) while local staff remain in direct control of operations, they will receive external
assistance at certain critical junctures; and (b) the tenure of fellowships and expert service periods are
optimally synchronized. Finally, all experts will be required to train staff and to prepare manuals to help
guide staff in how specific key tasks should be organized and programmed.
C. Financing Plan
6.8    The proposed project would be financed via an IBRD Loan and an IDA Credit totaling US$6.728
million equivalent, representing 52 percent of the total project cost. The combined Loan and Credit
would cover US$6.3 million equivalent or 70 percent of total foreign exchange expenditures, and US$0.5
million equivalent or 15 percent of estimated total local costs (net of taxes). The CDB would finance
US$3.1 million equivalent of total project cost, including US$2.3 million equivalent or 26 percent of total
foreign exchange expenditures, and US$0.7 million equivalent or 24 percent of local costs (net of taxes).
CDB financing would be provided on a blend basis. The Government would finance US$3.0 million
equivalent including US$0.4 million equivalent or 4 percent of total project foreign costs, US$1.9 million
equivalent or 62 percent of its local costs (net of taxes), and US$0.721 million equivalent in taxes.
6.9    Table 6.4 provides a summary of the project financing plan. Annex 10 includes the detailed
financing plan per project year, and by component. At negotiations, Government assurances were
obtained that it would allocate in "St. Lucia's Annual Estimates of Expenditure" for the years 1995
through 1999, the following minimum equivalent amounts, representing the total amounts of Project
financing required, regardless of source of funds, for Project implementation: (a) US$4.072 million in
1995; (b) US$6.590 million in 1996; (c) US$1.368 million in 1997; (d) US$0.468 million in 1998; and
(e) US$0.338 million in 1999. It also was agreed that the counterpart funds of a capital investment nature
required to support implementation of the civil works to be carried out under the project would be
deposited directly into a Project Account. At negotiations, it was further agreed that, as a condition of
28



Loan and Credit Effectiveness, the Government would have opened a Project Account in a bank
acceptable to the Bank and the Association, and deposited into such account an amount equivalent to not
less than US$270,000 for implementation of the civil works to be carried out under the project.
Moreover, it was agreed that the Government would maintain a positive balance in the Project Account
equal to at least the equivalent of US$270,000 in 1995; US$455,000 in 1996; and US$75,000 in 1997,
the period 1995 through 1997 being the period during which all civil works are expected to be fully
executed.
Table 6.4 Financing Plan
US$ Million                             Share
(including contingencies and taxes)             l
Government                             3.048                                   24
IBRD/IDA                               6.728                                   52
Caribbean Development Bank             3.061                                   24
TOTAL                   12.838
*Note: Totals do not add due to rounding
6.10   Retroactive financing of up to SDR450,000 (US$670,000 equivalent), or 10 percent of combined
IBRD and IDA project financing, would be provided to reimburse the Government for eligible
expenditures incurred after November 3, 1994, to enable the Govermnent to immediately commence
requisite steps to expedite the reform process, to include: (a) equipping of the newly established Project
Management Unit, training of its staff in such general areas as procurement, and Bank-specific
procedures, and provision of study tours for them to visit other project units in the Caribbean and of
expert services to assist in operationalizing the Unit and formulating the Project Implementation Manual;
(b) architectural design and tenders preparation for the civil works; and (c) preparation of specifications
for the educational equipment and furniture to be procured under the project. This retroactive financing
is required to permit these important outlays to be eligible for consideration for immediate reimbursement
upon Loan and Credit Effectiveness to release thus expended Government resources for urgent
reconstruction and economic recovery activities in the aftermath of tropical storm "Debbie."
7. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management and Coordination
7.1    The project would be executed by the Ministry of Education, Culture and Labor. As noted in
paragraph 5.4, as a condition of Loan and Credit Effectiveness, the Government would indicate in the
agreed Education Strategy Letter to the Bank and Association that an organizational restructuring of the
MOE had been carried out to create an Educational Planning and Development Office (EPDO), to include
establishment of a Project Management Unit (PMU) with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Bank and the Association; that the PMU had been staffed, and the Government agrees to maintain it at
all times, with at least three full-time professional personnel, to include a Project Manager, Procurement
Officer, and an Accountant, with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank and Association, assisted by
29



sufficient numbers of clerical staff; and that the PMU is provided with adequate space to carry out its
responsibilities.
7.2   To support and facilitate the establishment and smooth operation of the PMU, the Bank and
Association would permit a portion of the SDR450,000 in retroactive financing to be provided from the
Credit proceeds to be utilized for meeting specific needs related to the establishment and
operationalization of the PMU, as noted in paragraph 6.10. In implementing the project, the PMU and
other entities involved in project execution would be guided by a Project Implementation Manual (PIM).
The PIM will include the following main areas, inter alia: (a) organizational arrangements, including
specific relationships, responsibilities and linkages between distinct entities of the MOE and the PMU
relating to project execution; (b) operational procedures to be followed in project implementation, to
include criteria for: rehabilitation of primary schools; for eligibility for, and processing requirements
relating to, project-supported training (fellowships, in-service and study tours); selection of planning and
policy-related studies; (c) disbursement and procurement arrangements, to include the standard bidding
documents to be used for works and goods, and standard consultant contracts; (d) financial management
and control arrangements, including Terms of Reference (TORs) for internal and external project audits;
(e) agreed project monitoring and evaluation indicators, to guide assessment of project implementation
performance during the Annual and Mid-Term Project Reviews; (f) TORs for the staff of the PMU; and
(g) a timetable delineating targeted completion dates for the project-supported planning and policy-related
studies. The Manual also will provide a summary of the technical contents of the components and sub-
components of the project. At negotiations, the Government and the Bank and Association reached
agreement on the content of the PIM. As a condition of Loan and Credit Effectiveness, the Government
will have ensured that the PIM had been issued, in terms satisfactory to the Bank and Association, and
provided appropriate assurances that this Manual is in full force and effect.
B. Institutional Arrangements
7.3    As a source of advice and counseling during project implementation, a Project Advisory
Committee (PAC) will be established with representation from the MOE (with the Project Manager
serving as Secretary), and from the Ministries of Finance, Planning, and Training. The PAC will meet
periodically to review implementation performance and will be convened, as needed, to address any
urgent matters which might arise over the course of project execution. To ensure achievement of project
objectives, the MOE will need to collaborate closely with several other government entities, including
the Ministry of Finance, a representative of which will countersign all disbursement applications for the
project, and the SALCC, including its DTEAA.
7.4    The project will support and complement several other externally financed education initiatives.
The primary school rehabilitation program, to be financed under the project, will complement investments
in maintenance kits for select schools financed from the CDB Basic Needs Trust Fund (BNTF) project.
The training of science and mathematics teachers at the primary and secondary level will expand upon
efforts already underway to upgrade primary teachers in science and mathematics with support from
UNESCO and the Organization of American States (OAS).
C. Implementation Program
7.5    The project will be implemented over the five-year period 1995-1999. A detailed Implementation
Program, by component and subcomponent, is presented in Annex 12. The project Completion Date
would be December 31, 1999, and the Loan and Credit Closing Dates would be June 30, 2000. Civil
works execution, overseas fellowships, and provision of expert services are heavily concentrated over the
first two years of project implementation in order to ensure these key inputs are rapidly completed so that
the education reform process can be launched as expeditiously as possible. Thus, as highlighted in Annex
30



10, US$10.7 million equivalent or 83 percent of total project financing is expected to be disbursed over
the initial 24 months of project execution.
7.6    At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that not later than six months after the
Closing Dates, or such later dates as may be agreed for this purpose, it will prepare and furnish to the
Bank and Association a plan of such scope and detail as IBRD and IDA may reasonably request, for the
future operation of the Project, will exchange views with IBRD and IDA on such plan, and will carry
out such plan, taking into account IBRD and IDA comments on it.
D. Procurement
7.7    Current procurement methods pursued in the MOE do not ensure the most efficient acquisition
of civil works, goods or services. Problems occur throughout virtually all stages of the procurement
process, relating to: (a) limited technical knowledge of optimum types and sources of educational
equipment, materials, supplies, and hence difficulties in writing precise and appropriate technical
specifications; (b) inexperience in packaging contracts to obtain potential economies of scale of purchase;
(c) difficulties in appropriately timing the placement of orders in order to synchronize delivery dates with
the actual time that the given goods will be required, particularly to coincide with the state of readiness
of civil works; (d) limitations in existing procedures for conduct of technical evaluation of bids; (e) the
common failure to incorporate clauses in bidding documents which would promote local purchasing,
where appropriate; (f) insufficient attention to inspection of goods and bills of lading upon arrival of
procured items; and (g) the virtual neglect of enforcement of insurance and warranty clauses.
7.8    Several steps have been taken to ameliorate such problems in this project. First, prior to
commencement of project implementation, the Procurement Officer, to be appointed full-time to the
staff of the PMU, will receive intensive, practical training, including an attachment to an appropriate
external agency experienced in international procurement, and attendance at relevant Bank-sponsored
courses. Second, expert services will be provided at critical points in the procurement process to
assist as well as further train the Procurement Officer. Third, to both guide and expedite the
procurement process, specification lists for goods to be procured with project financing, and bidding
documents for civil works and goods based on standard Bank documents, will be prepared according
to the Implementation Program (Annex 11). To further advance preparation of civil works,
architectural designs will be completed, and retroactively financed, in order to permit initiation of the
actual bidding process immediately upon declaration of Loan and Credit Effectiveness.
7.9    The designation of a full-time Procurement Officer to the PMU responds directly to the
experience gained in the OECS Regional Vocational and Technical Education Project (Credit 1785-
CRG), in particular the need for constant, careful attention to detailed selection and specifications of
goods (i.e., furniture and educational and related equipment and materials) to be purchased, and to
contracting procedures, ensuring: (a) upstream, compliance with Bank guidelines for selection of
consultants and consulting firms, and of civil works contractors; and (b) downstream, that acquired
goods meet specifications and that equipment is appropriately and safely installed and utilized.
Procurement procedures to be followed for all major categories of expenditures to be financed by
IBRD and IDA are described below and summarized in Table 7.1.
Civil Works
7.10   Civil works to be procured with project financing (expected to total US$ 7.2 million
equivalent, including contingencies) consist of the following: (i) four secondary schools, to include
construction of three new schools of 525 places each in Babonneau, Anse Ger and Laborie, and the
replacement of the Soufriere Comprehensive Secondary School to include 700 places (representing a
net addition of 100 places); (ii) construction of one new District Education Office in Vieux Fort and
31



extension of the existing District Office in Choiseul; (iii) refurbishing of space and installation of a
vault for the new Education Testing and Examinations (ETX) Unit; and (iv) rehabilitation of selected
primary schools. Civil works for the Babonneau and Anse Ger schools would be procured according
to the guidelines of CDB, which is financing this construction. For the remaining civil works, all of
which are to be IBRD and IDA-financed, all contracts above US$0.5 million would be awarded on
the basis of International Competitive Bidding (CB), consistent with IBRD and IDA guidelines. Civil
works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more but less than the equivalent of
US$500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$300,000 equivalent, may be
procured on the basis of local competitive bidding. Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$470,000 (to include
contracts for civil works for rehabilitation of selected primary schools), may be procured through
local shopping procedures, consistent with IBRD and IDA guidelines. All primary school
rehabilitation works would require full documentation to include: certification by the MOE that the
works were of a priority nature, consistent with the October/November 1994 school facilities
inventory; an approved budget for the subject work; review by the consultants for civil works of
designs and/or bidding documents prior to initiating any such works, and certification by the
consultants for civil works that the work was efficiently, fully and satisfactorily completed; and
appropriate documentation of local shopping procedures applied in the selection of contractors, all of
which documentation would be maintained for review by IBRD and IDA supervision missions.
God
7.11 School Equipment and Furniture, other than computer hardware and software (expected to
total US$814,000 and US$457,000 equivalent, respectively, including contingencies). Contracts
above US$150,000 would be awarded on the basis of ICB. School equipment and furniture estimated
to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more but less than the equivalent of US$150,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$200,000 respectively, may be procured through local
competitive bidding procedures (LCB), consistent with IBRD and IDA guidelines. Contracts for such
goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to US$30,000 respectively, may be procured on the basis of local shopping
procedures, consistent with IBRD and IDA guidelines.
7.12   Computer hardware and software (expected to total US$427,000 equivalent, including
contingencies). All items would be grouped, to the extent possible, in packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$50,000 or more, and would be procured via International Competitive Bidding
procedures, consistent with IBRD and IDA guidelines. Bidding eligibility criteria would specify that
the manufacturer have established maintenance facilities and services in St. Lucia or neighboring
countries.
7.13   Textbooks, and other educational materials (expected to total US$440,000 equivalent,
including contingencies) would be procured through international shopping procedures, consistent with
IBRD and IDA guidelines, given the relatively small value of such contracts and the varied nature of
the goods to be procured.
7.14   Office supplies and miscellaneous items (expected to total US$390,000 equivalent, including
contingencies). Procurement of all such goods would be based on grouping them, to the extent
feasible but taking into account actual level of needs, into packages with an estimated cost equivalent
to less than US$50,000, and following international shopping procedures, consistent with IBRD and
IDA guidelines.
32



Technical Assistance
7.15   Professional service contracts (expected to total US$736,000 equivalent) for architectural
design, tendering, and supervision/administration of contracts relating to the execution of IBRD and
IDA-financed civil works would be procured according to Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.
7.16   Expert Services (expected to total US$647,000 equivalent, including contingencies), to
include contracts for consultants and consulting firms would be awarded in accordance with the World
Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. Details on project-financed Expert Services are provided
in Annex 11.
Studies
7.17   With reference to studies (expected to total US$176,000 equivalent, including contingencies),
the project would disburse for consulting services, transport costs, and materials printing and supplies
related to the conduct of planning and policy-related studies to be carried out under the project. The
consulting services would be procured in compliance with guidelines of the Government, which is
financing 100 percent of these outlays.
IBRD and IDA Review
7.18   At negotiations, Government assurances were obtained that: (a) prior to initiating any civil
works or acquisition of goods to be procured through ICB, and for those civil works and goods to be
procured via LCB with an estimated cost of US$100,000 equivalent or more, it will submit to the
Bank for its prior review all relevant documentation; and (b) with regard to consultants and consulting
firms, all proposed contracts and related terms of reference, short lists of candidates, proposed fees,
etc. would be submitted for prior IBRD and IDA review to ensure consistency with Bank guidelines
on use of consultants.
33



Table 7.1
St. Lucia
Basic Education Project                            Procurement Method
Procurerent Arrangements - Non ICB/LC   International     Local
(USS 000)                                Competitive  Conpetitive             Consulting
Bidding      Bidding    Other a/   Services    N.BF.    Totl
A. Civil Works
Construction                                  3,510          238       462            -    2,997      7,207
(2,246)       (153)     (345)                          (2,744)
B. Goods
1. Equipment and Furniture
Computers and Softw.                         427             -          -           -        -        427
(427)                                                   (427)
Other Equipment                              584          200         30                     -        814
(584)       (200)       (30)                            (814)
Fumiture                                     227          200         30            -        -        457
(227)       (200)       (30)                            (457)
2. Books&Educat.Materials                         -            -       440            -         -       440
(364)                           (364)
3. Supplies&Miscell.                              -            -       390            -         -       390
(390)                           (390)
C. Training                                         -            -          -           -      306        306
D. Technical Assistance
Works Design/EngJ/SPN                             -            -          -        423       313        736
(274)               (274)
Experts                                           -                       -        647          -       647
(647)               (647)
Fellwships                                        -                    610            -      544      1,154
(610)                           (610)
E. Studies                                          -                                   -      176        176
F. Maintenance
Equipment                                         -            -          -           -       84         84
Total                                            4,748         638      1,962       1,070    4,419      12,838
(3,485)       (553)    (1,770)      (921)         -    (6,728)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD and IDA
a/ Varies according to expenditure category. Civil works valued at leas than US$100,000, up to an
aggregate of US$470,000 would be procured through local shopping procedures acceptable to IEBRD
and IDA; between US$0.1 - $0.5 mnillion, up to an aggregate of US$300,000, through LCB; above
US$0.5 million through ICB. Contracts valued at less than US$25,000 for furniture and school
equiprnent, other than comfputers mnay be procured on the basis of local shopping procedures up to
an aggregate of US$30,000, respectively; between USS25,000-150,000 up to aggregate of
US$200,000, respectively, through LCB; and above US$150,000 through ICB. Computers and
related software equipmrent will be procured through ICE. Office and school supplies would be
provided through international shopping procedures acceptable to IBRD and IDA. Textbooks and
other educational naterials would be provided through international shopping. Experts services and
ervices for design, engineering and supervision of civil works would be procured according to
Bank guidelines for use of consultants.
34



E. Disbursements and Accounts
7.19   The proposed operation, to include a Loan of US$3.364 million equivalent and Credit of
SDR2.3 million (US$3.364 million equivalent), would be disbursed over a five-year period, typical of
other IBRD and IDA-supported social sector projects. Annex 13, Table 1 presents the disbursement
forecast for the Loan and Credit, by semesters and by financier. The Loan and Credit is expected to
be fully disbursed over 10 semesters, commencing immediately at Loan and Credit Effectiveness with
the disbursement for retroactive financing and the initial disbursement into the project Special
Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would establish, maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IBRD and IDA, a Special Account in US dollars at
the National Commercial Bank of St. Lucia. The Authorized allocation for the Special Account
would be US$0.5 million equivalent, with an initial deposit to be made of US$0.25 million
equivalent, and such allocation to remain limited to an amount equivalent to US$0.25 million until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association, shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
US$1.0 million . The Special Account will be managed by the Project Management Unit (PMU) of
the MOE, with all disbursements made under authorized signatures from designated representatives of
both the Ministry of Finance and the PMU. At negotiations, Government assurances were provided
that withdrawal applications for replenishment of the Special Account will be prepared by the PMU in
accordance with Bank policies and procedures.
7.20   Additionally, as noted in paragraph 6.9, as a condition of Loan and Credit Effectiveness, the
Government would open a Project Account in a bank acceptable to IBRD and IDA and deposit into
such account an amount equivalent to not less than US$270,000, for purposes of financing the
implementation of civil works to be carried out under the project. The Government further agreed
that it would maintain a positive balance in such account over the 1995-1997 period, in the amounts
stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement, during which period all civil works are expected to
be fully executed.
7.21   Annex 13, Table 2 contains the projected Loan and Credit disbursement allocations.
Disbursements would be effected against the following expenditure categories, by percentage of IBRD
and IDA financing: (a) civil works, for construction of the new secondary school at Laborie and the
replacement Soufriere Comprehensive Secondary School, the District Education Offices at Vieux Fort
and Choiseul, and refurbishing of the ETX Unit and for professional fees related there to for design,
tender preparation and contract administration--64 percent of total cost; (b) civil works for
rehabilitation of selected primary schools and professional fees related thereto 75 percent of total cost,
subject to a maximum not to exceed US$100,000 per contract; (c) goods to include all equipment,
furniture, educational materials, computers and software, and supplies and miscellaneous-100 percent
of foreign expenditures and 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory costs), except basic
textbooks for primary and secondary teachers and storage units for primary textbooks--50 percent of
eligible expenditures); (d) technical assistance, including expert services and fellowships (but
excluding fellowships at the undergraduate level in the subjects of science and education, and
mathematics and education)--100 percent. An unallocated category of disbursements also would be
established. CDB would finance civil works and related professional fees for Babonneau and Anse
Ger secondary schools and for undergraduate level study in science and education and mathematics
and education. Loan and Credit proceeds would not be used for training (including workshops),
studies or equipment maintenance, all of which categories of expenditure will be 100 percent financed
by the Government.
7.22   Withdrawal applications for goods and civil works with a contract value of US$25,000 or
more equivalent would be supported by full documentation. Disbursements for all contracts for goods
and civil works of less than US$25,000 equivalent, including works associated with the rehabilitation
and repair of primary schools, would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
35



certified by the PMU. Supporting documentation for these latter expenditures, as delineated in
paragraph 7.10 would be retained by the PMU, and be readily available for periodic review by IBRD
and IDA supervision missions. With regard to fellowships, at negotiations Government assurances
were provided that, prior to initiating any IBRD or IDA-financed fellowships, the PMU will submit to
the IBRD and IDA for their approval the proposed candidate and training institution to ensure their
suitability for the respective staff development area.
F. Financial Management, Accounting and Audits
7.23   An evaluation of existing financial management procedures and the accounting systems and
administrative controls was carried out by the Bank. The evaluation concluded that the country's
financial management system is highly centralized, with the Ministry of Finance responsible for
general financial control of the entire executive branch. At the level of the MOE, financial activities
are circumscribed to suggestions for budget formulation, partial processing of payments, and limited
maintenance of basic accounting chronological information (all done by hand). The review determined
that the existing financial management system in the executive branch would require strengthening
over the medium-term in order to support the country's needs in general and the modernization of the
administration of the MOE in specific. The evaluation noted three areas in need of improvement,
including: accounting, budgeting and planning, and debt management. To these ends, the project
supports overseas graduate training of a MOE staff member in financial management, as well as the
establishment of an integrated, computerized education data system, to include financial records. The
Project Implementation Manual, which will be prepared and provided to the Bank and Association as
a condition of Loan and Credit Effectiveness, will delineate financial management and control
procedures, and provide TORs for internal and external audits, satisfactory to IBRD and IDA.
7.24   The technical review conducted during the preparatory phase further concluded that the
Government Audit Department has the required independence to meet Bank audit requirements, as it
reports directly to Parliament. With regard to its technical capacity, senior staff have obtained
overseas training and have adequate skills to conduct audits required for this project. To help expand
the technical knowledge of this Department's staff in current international auditing approaches in
general, and Bank audit requirements in specific, the Bank is considering the conduct of a project
accounting and auditing seminar in 1995, with broad participation of member countries in the
Caribbean region.
7.25   The MOE would keep separate accounts for project incurred expenditures according to the
proposed Charts of Accounts (as detailed in Schedule I of the Loan and Credit Agreements) and
prepare a monthly statement of expenditures. This procedure will facilitate the withdrawal application
preparation and expedite the disbursement process. Annual audits of all project accounts, including
the Special Account, will be undertaken by an independent auditor. Initially, it is proposed that this
independent auditor be a private sector firm. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances
that the requisite audit reports would be submitted to the Bank and Association not later than four
months after the end of each fiscal year4, i.e, not later than July 31, under TORs satisfactory to
IBRD and IDA. It was further noted at negotations that should the Government Audit Department be
able to carry out such audits in a timely fashion, the use of this Department would be acceptable to
the Bank and the Association.
4  Fiscal year differs from the calendar year, and runs from April 1 to March 31.
36



G. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Project Performance Reporting
7.26   Overall responsibility for monitoring, evaluation and reporting of project performance would
be assigned to the PMU. The PMU also would be responsible for preparation of the Borrower's
section of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) that would be transmitted to the IBRD and
IDA not later than six months after the Closing Date. To ensure and expedite fulfillment of periodic
reporting requirements of the project co-financiers relating to project implementation status, and to
facilitate the conduct of regular project supervision missions, at negotiations the Government and
IBRD and IDA agreed that: (a) consolidated project progress reports would be prepared by the PMU
each six months, i.e., on September 30 and March 31 each year, and would be distributed to IBRD
and IDA, and may be distributed to CDB; and (b) the March 31 report would serve as the basis for
an annual in depth review of project performance to be carried out by the Government, IBRD and
IDA, and may include the participation of CDB.
7.27   The annual March 31 project status report will include: (i) a summary of the project
performance over the past year, including agreed project monitoring and evaluation indicators, as
were agreed with the Government at negotiations, and are delineated in Annex 14; and (ii) a detailed
work program and budget (to include planned contracting of expert services and initiation of planning
and policy-related studies over the given year) for the forthcoming year of project implementation, to
include a realistic implementation schedule and targets for moving the project toward its successful
completion. As agreed with the Government during negotiations, the Project Monitoring and
Evaluation Indicators will be delineated in the PIM.
Project Reviews
7.28    Annual reviews of project performance would take place no later than May 31 each year
between the IBRD and IDA and Government (which may have participation of CDB). A joint Mid-
Term Review of the performance of the Basic Education Reform Project and the education reform
process which it supports would be undertaken not later than September 30, 1997. For such review,
the PMU would prepare, and jointly IBRD, IDA and the Government (which may have participation
of CDB) would review a summary report to include assessment of: (a) the overall implementation
performance of the project during its first two-and-one-half years in terms of its progress toward
achieving the agreed project objectives, targets and indicators; (b) the adequacy of available and
planned project financing; (c) compliance with IBRD and IDA procurement and disbursement
requirements, and (d) the outcome of the annual audit reports. Subsequent to this review, a plan of
action to guide the successful completion of the project will be prepared. A Project Supervision Plan
is provided in Annex 14. As part of such Annual Review, the MOE may be asked to prepare an
action plan, satisfactory to IBRD and IDA, to make adjustments in project implementation, as the
review process may indicate is needed to achieve project objectives. In such case, the Government
should furnish this action plan to IBRD/IDA no later than one month after conclusion of the
respective review, and shall thereafter carry out such action plan in accordance with its terms. At
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would comply fully and timely with the
above noted Project reporting and review requirements.
H. Environmental Impact
7.29   The proposed project does not represent environmental risks. It has been assigned a "C"
environmental classification.
37



8. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
8.1    The proposed project would significantly increase educational opportunities, particularly for
youth from the more remote areas. An additional 1,675 children, or 9 percent of the secondary
school age cohort, will have access to secondary education via project-financed civil works. Major
improvements are expected in education provided throughout the compulsory cycle and, hence, in
student achievement and employment potential, from the considerable investments targeted toward
enhancing quantitatively and qualitatively the major educational inputs, i.e., trained teachers,
curricula, educational materials, testing and measurement, and school plant. An improved quality of
primary education is expected to help ensure that many more students will be prepared to benefit fully
from secondary education, as access to it increases. The project also should contribute significantly to
building institutional capacity, particularly at the MOE central Headquarters, district and school
levels. It promotes increased collaboration between key public and private sector entities involved in
the education sector at the national and regional level; and provides a model for initiating education
sector reform, consistent with the OECS Education Reform Strategy, for other OECS countries
embarking on this process. Project support to such discrete areas as achievement testing, integrated
education data systems, and expansion and upgrading of educational materials production, will create
a basis for OECS regional collaboration, given common interest in these initiatives.
B. Risks
8.2    The principal risks associated with the project relate to: (i) inadequate institutional capacity to
carry out the education reform process, including possible failure to augment the MOE with requisite
additional qualified staff; (ii) unavailability of sufficient Government financing to sustain reforms; (iii)
failure to adjust and/or to closely monitor compliance with adjusted teacher to student ratios in
primary and secondary schools; (iv) reluctance to adopt regional, collaborative approaches, given
their inherent delays, even when these may represent the most efficient and effective long-term
approaches; and (v) PMU problems in meeting the administrative demands presented by heavy front
loading of implementation over the first two years, given limited Bank project execution experience.
To mitigate against potential institutional failures, strong emphasis is placed on sector planning and
institutional strengthening, including extensive staff upgrading via both overseas and local training,
and Government assurances that the MOE personnel complement will be expanded to ensure expertise
exists to fulfill its broad education sector development mandate.
8.3    Given vulnerabilities of this small economy to external factors and shocks, Government
project financing has been kept within easily met ranges at present and projected GDP, and has been
concentrated on local cost-intensive investments, i.e., studies, local training, equipment maintenance
and the local cost portion of civil works. Incremental recurrent costs, often hampering achievement
of education sector reforms, will be partially offset by resources to be released from adjusting teacher
to student ratios over the project implementation period, presentation of a schedule for which is a
condition of Loan and Credit Effectiveness.
8.4    To actively promote inter-country collaboration, high priority has been, and will continue to
be, assigned to pooling technical resources, encouraging use of Caribbean expertise, sharing of
experiences, and developing regional interventions, where appropriate and feasible. Experience
gained in preparing and launching this project will help other OECS Governments in the design and
initiation of their education sector reform initiatives. Several measures are being taken to facilitate
smooth, timely project implementation, amid front loading of investments, including: (a) advancing
crucial start-up activities, e.g., architectural designs and equipment and furniture specification lists, to
be carried out before Effectiveness, via Japanese grant funds; (b) training of PMU staff in key
38



management areas prior to project commencement, to be facilitated by retroactive financing; and (c)
provision of 8 months of Project Management expert services to support the PMU over the initial
months of project execution.
9. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
9.1    At negotiations, Saint Lucia presented a draft Education Strategy Letter, which was discussed
in depth. The Government and IBRD and IDA reached agreement on the content of the final
Education Strategy Letter to be presented to the Association and the Bank as a condition of Credit and
Loan Effectiveness. It will describe its education sector reform strategy, and the priority actions it
will take to effect such reform, with special attention to the compulsory, basic education cycle.
9.2    At negotiations, the Government also reached final agreement with IBRD and IDA on: (a) the
content of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM); (b) targeted completion dates for the planning
and policy-related studies to be carried out over the first two years of project implementation; and (c)
project monitoring and evaluation indicators and targets (to be included in the PIM) to be reviewed
during the Annual and Mid-Term Project Reviews.
9.3    The Government further provided assurances that: (a) not later than March 31, 1996, it would
have established, and subsequently would maintain within the MOE, an ETX Unit, with functions and
responsibilities, and staffed with an adequate number of professionals with qualifications and
responsibilities, satisfactory to the Bank and Association; and that the ETX at all times would be
provided with adequate, secure, air-conditioned space, and the necessary transport to support timely,
effective implementation of this project subcomponent, with one vehicle to be assigned full-time to the
ETX; (b) it would allocate in "St. Lucia's Annual Estimates of Expenditure" for the years 1995
through 1999, the following minimum equivalent amounts, representing the total amounts of project
financing required, regardless of source of funds, for project implementation: (i) US$ 4.072 million
in 1995; (ii) US$6.590 million in 1996; (iii) US$1.368 million in 1997; (iv) US$0.468 million in
1998; and (v) US$0.338 million in 1999; (c) it shall cause SALCC to appoint candidates from its staff
members to receive project-financed fellowships; and (d) prior to initiating any IBRD or IDA financed
fellowships, the PMU will submit to the IBRD and IDA for its agreement the proposed candidate and
training institution to ensure their suitability for the respective staff development area.
9.4   Further, the Government provided assurances at negotiations that it would comply fully with
standard Bank procedures relating to implementation of the project, with special attention to the
following: (a) regarding prior review, before initiating any civil works or acquisition of goods to be
procured through ICB, and for those civil works and goods to be procured via LCB with a value of
US$100,000 equivalent or more, it will submit to the Bank and Association for their prior review all
relevant documentation; and with regard to consultants and consulting firms, all proposed contracts
and related terms of reference, short lists of candidates, proposed fees, etc. would be submitted for
prior IBRD and IDA review to ensure consistency with Bank guidelines on use of consultants;
(b) withdrawal applications for replenishment of the Special Account will be prepared by the PMU in
accordance with Bank policies and procedures; (c) an independent auditor, acceptable to the Bank and
Association, would undertake the requisite annual audits of project accounts under Terms of
Reference acceptable to IBRD and IDA, and it would provide copies of the audited statements to the
Bank and Association within four months of the end of each fiscal year; (d) via the PMU, the MOE
39



would submit to IBRD and IDA project progress reports on March 31 and September 30 of each
year; and the progress report of March 31 each year would serve as the basis for the annual project
review, and shall include: (i) an assessment of overall implementation progress over the past year,
including project monitoring and evaluation indicators as delineated in Annex 14; (ii) a detailed work
plan for the forthcoming year to include planning and policy-related studies to be undertaken; and an
updated budget for project implementation for the fiscal year ending the following March with a
realistic implementation schedule and targets for moving the project toward its successful completion;
(e) Annual Reviews of project performance to be carried out jointly by the Government and IBRD
and IDA (which may have participation of CDB), would take place no later than May 31 each year,
on the basis of the March 31 progress report; and no later than September 30, 1997, a Mid-Term
Review would be carried out jointly by the Government and IBRD and IDA (which may have
participation of CDB), to evaluate the project performance against the agreed objectives, targets and
indicators; the adequacy of available and planned project financing; compliance with IBRD and IDA
procurement and disbursement requirements, and the outcome of the annual audit reports.
9.5    As conditions of Loan and Credit Effectiveness, the Government will present to the Bank and
Association the agreed Education Strategy Letter to include: (a) a schedule delineating annual targets
for adjusting the teacher to students ratios over the project implementation period; (b) its commitment
to ensure over the project implementation period the adequacy of sector financing for non-salary
expenditures, including for school system administration; and (c) indication that an organizational
restructuring of the MOE had been carried out to establish an Educational Planning and Development
Office (EPDO) with three constituent units--a Project Management Unit (PMU), a Data Management
Unit, and an Education Planning Unit (EPU)--and that the respective new posts had been created
within EPDO, and the funding for such posts had been included in the 1995/96 "St. Lucia's Annual
Estimates of Expenditure" request. Additionally, the Government would have opened a Project
Account in a bank acceptable to the Bank and the Association, and deposited into such account an
amount equivalent to not less than US$270,000 for implementation of the civil works to be carried
out under the project; and ensured that the Project Implementation Manual had been issued, in terms
satisfactory to the Bank and Association, and that this Manual would have become effective.
B. Recommendation
9.6    With the above agreements and assurances, the Project would constitute a suitable basis for a
Loan of US$ 3.364 million equivalent and a Credit of SDR 2.3 million (US$ 3.364 million
equivalent) to Saint Lucia.
40



Basic Education Statistics: Annex I
ST. LUCIA BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT                       g    1
Enrollment Trends at Public Primary and Secondarv Schools
03 Primary Public
2_      __ _.___                            School
Enrollment
o_                                           * Secondary School
15,000 -                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Enrollment
.50o
1983/84      1987/88      1992/93      1993/94      1994/95
Years
Year                   1983/84   1987/88   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95
Primary Public School Enrollment        32,107    32,809    31,928    31,487    31,400 *
.Secondary School Enrollment              4,854      5,784      9,179      9,721     10,229 *
Preliminary Estimates
Source: Ministry of Education, Culture and Labour
ST. LUCIA BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT                  Figure 2
Number of Public Secondarv Schools (1960-1994)
14                                                ____                                  01960
0 1970
12                  ---- --    .                                                        *1972
*3 1 974
1                   0                   .0 .                                            01976
w                                                                                        01978
41                                        01986
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a18
E                                                                                        El1990
24                                                                                       01992
M 1994
2-
0
Senior Secondary Schools                 Junior Secondary Schools
41



Basic Education Statistics:  Annex 1
Table 1
ST. LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Common Entrance Examination (CEE)
Year         Number        < -----------------------Students scoring > = 100-->
tamg         TOTAL         %      Assigned to    As % of   Not           As % of
Secondary     those       Assigned to  those
School         > = 100    Secondary    > =100
School
1988          5,061       2254        44.5       1,391         62          863          38
1989          5,128                              1,627                     n/a
1990          5,151       2526        49         1,648         65          878          35
1991          4,950                              1,972                     n/a
1992          4,799                             2,193                      n/a
1993          4,867       2400        49        2,025          84          375          16
Note:  100 is the designated passing score.
Source: Ministuy of Education, Culturm and Labor
Table 2
ST. LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Common Middle School Examination
Year         Number        < ------------------------Students scoring > = 100-------- ----  >
Exmg         TOTAL         %      Assigned to    As % of   Not            As % of
Secondary     those       Assigned to  those
School         > = 100    Secondary    > =100
School
1988           501        238         48        197             83         41           17
1989           n/a                              n/a                        n/a
1990           558        171         31        171            100        0
1991           320        150         47        109             73        41            27
1992           516                              277                       n/a
1993          418         198        47         153             77        45            23
Note:  100 is the designated passing score.
Sourec: Minitry of Education, Culture and Labor
42



Basic Education Statistics:  Annex 1
Table 3
ST. LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Distribution of Primary School Supervision Workload
by Education District 1992193
Districts                Number of Teachers   Number of Students   Number of Schools
1. Urban Castries                        292                   9,242                        18
2. Laborie                               130                   3,325                        13
3. Dennery/Micoud                        154                   4,642                        12
4. Rural Castries                        253                   6,774                        20
5. Vieux Fort                            189                   5,193                        11
6. Soufriere                              77                   2,311                        10
TOTAL                    1095                  31,487                        84
Source: Ministry of Education, Culture and Labor
Table 4
ST. LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Common Entrance Examination (CEE) Scores by Subiect
1288 and  1993
1988                               1993
Subjects:                            Max          F          M       Max Raw           Mean Score
Raw                              Score           (both sexes)
Score
General Paper                                                           60                30.6
Mathematics (Problems)                50         12.5       11.7        50                12.0
Mathematics (Multiple Choice)         50         11.5       9.7         50                24.5
Essay and Summary                     45         18.2       13.8         50               19.1
Spelling                              12         4.9        3.5          10                5.7
Word Usage                            12         4.2        3.4          10                5.7
Punctuation                           12         3.1        2.5          10                5.5
Vocabulary                            12         2.0         1.6         10                5.0
Reading                               12         4.7        3.6          10                6.0
Sources:
1988:  Ministry of Education, Culture and Labor
1993:  Ministry of Education, Culture and Labor, Statistical Digest 1992-93, Table 33, p.52
43



Basic Education Statistics: Annex 1
Table 5
ST. LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Common Entrance Examination (CEE Scores) 1993
Proportion of Students Scoring> = 100. by Sex
Number of Students     Number Scoring > = 100   Number Scoring < = 100
l_______________  Taking Exam                                                     as % taking Exam
Male                      2469                      1051                       43
Female                     2398                      1349                       56
Total                     4857                      2400
44



Basic Education Statistics:  Annex 1
Table 6
ST. LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Caribbean Examination Council (CXC) Results 1994
(by number of subjects offered)
#Subjects offered# Passes      #Sat   No          1          2        3          4        5          6         7         8           9         10
Passes    Subj     Subj      Subj      Subj      Subj       Subj      Subj      Subj        Subj      Subj
1 Subjects                       9       3         6
2 Subjects                      14       5         7         2
3 Subjects                       4       3         1         0        0
4 Subjects                      10       0         4         2         2         2
S Subjects                      44       7        10        14         5         8        0
6 Subjects                      150      8        23        28        40         26      28           6
7 Subjects                     231       6         2        20        32         46      44           51       30
8 Subjects                     249      0          2         8        12         28      24          50        58        67
9 Subjects                      31       0         0         0        0          2        2           1        5          7          14
|  0Subjects                     2      0          0        0         0          0        0           0        0         0           0        2
TOTAL               753      32        55        74        91        112      98          108       93        74          14       2
Note:  The number in which grade 11 or better was achieved for candidates offering no basic and at least one general/technical.
Source: Caribbean Examinations Council (CXC)
45



Basic Education Statistics: Annex I
ST. LUCIA BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT                                         Figure 3
Graduate Teachers at Secondary Schools
(October 1992)
St. Lucian Natkioal          | St. Lucian Natlonal Tenches
Te8her                  0 Non St. Lucian Teachers
s                      ~~~~~48%
Non St. Lucian
Teachers
52%
Source: Ministry of Education, Culture and Labour, Statistical Digest 1992/93
ST. LUCIA BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT   Figure 4
Teaching Experience of Secondary Teachers: 1992/93
>25 years
22-25 years             6%                                  <2 years
8%                                                                                     * 2-5 yrear
* 6-9 years
U 10-11 3 years
0 14-17 years
0 19-21 years
14-17 years                                                                                    * 22-25 year
8%                                                                                         U 3 >25 years
1013     : years                                                            yean
13%                            6-9 years
12%
Source: Ministry of Education, Culture & Labour, Statistical Digest 1992/93
46



_I _ . I  ._       L     l-       H                           I 
02~~~~~s2
0~~~~~~~~~~
-29~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
RE.$"                                     t      .~ QoT. tt 
G1._ar X9 O"9,, 01                                                                                                                1 
038r~R                                                       __ 044  2 03 =/



COHORT ANALYSIS: STUDENT FLOW THROUGH SECONDARY SCHOOL - ST.LUCIA
X u                    FORM I             FORM 2            FORM 3            FORM 4            FORM 5               Grads. Drop-outs No. taking  4+ CXC'S
_______________6_  CXC  exams
6                                                                                          6
1991   1 000         1                                       cmm  ~ 
U ~~1992                              975
1992    1-9-j                          1 8                  common M"a Exms                                      1 8
< 1993 \: 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~28                                                                                      28
4-               1993                                       1
6594
4J  ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ 1                                   227                                                                28
19941490
4                           110                              16               20
o-r1            1995       0                                                                                           723                  662        240
4i                                                                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
u                                                                    7                         r64                                 7
0
1996                               v                                                                  279                  255         92                 0o
U            ___    ______                                                             6                          _                6                    ._,
1002     1141       917        332
FMI  FM2  FM3  FM4  FM5
Drop-out Rate      0.01  0.02  0.03  0.03  0.02
Promotion Rate     0.98  0.93   0.9  0.85   (9       Graduation rate
Repetition Rate    0.02  0.05  0.08  0.12  0.05   -
Foreign Trans. Rate 0.00  0.00  0.01  0.01  0.00
Rate taking CXC: 0.824 of Form 5 enrolment
Rate scoulng 4+ CXC subjects : 0.362 of number taking exams.
Common Mlddle transfer rat: approx. 0 .141 of Form I intake



ST. LUCIA
Current Structure of Education System
AGE
5                .         91011.12. 13 ....14 ....15 ...... 17+.
FExaa /                100              Sondy School               \XC/CG /                            Tertiary Education
nce                                        F~~~~~~~~~~~xam         Sir Arthur Lewis
Fl  F2  F3  F4  F5                                               Community College
Priwry Schodol                                                                              T 2nd chance
Infrt Primwy School                     b100                                                                        V" nSoolo
G I G2 G3  |G4  05    G6 7   >
Go
J     National Certificate Exam                                          v                       r
LABOUfl MARKET
unekillad                                                                                                                                 skilled
CEE - Comrmnon Entranro Exrrination
CXC - Caribban Examinations Council
GCE- Genral Certifito of Education (Cambride or London)
Sirctare of EdAaim Systa: As= 2
Soure: B_ikADA m*_ion                                                                               49                                                                                            Chart 1



Proposed Structure of Education System at end of Education Reform Process
AGE
5.678.9. 10. 1 1.                                               12 ...13 ...14 ...15 ...16 ...17+. 
Primary School
Infant   I Primary                /      \      Yes > I100      Seodr Scoo                                   Yes > 100
Gl G2 G3 G4 G5 G6                /   CEE    \                   Fl  F2  F3  F4  F5                CXG/CGE                    Tertiary Education
xam                                     Exam                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sir Arthur Lewis
Community College
+    .           ~~~~~No                                   lNo
Go
Sau.: Ta                                                                       s o                                                                     ChS    2



STaLUCIA
Organizational Chart for 1993/94
Minister of Education, Culture ud Labour                     MINISTER
Permanent
Secretary
Chief        Communications          Principal          UNESCO            Director        Director of            Labour
Education           Officer            Assistant         Secretary         of Culture         Library           Commissioner
i  Officer     I                         Secretary          General                            Services
I~ ~~                                         I A                                                      Assis ,, 
Deputy          Statistics &       Assistant          Accounts                           Chief Librarian      Assistant Labour
Chief         Examinations        Secretary                                                                   Commissioner
Education                           PerIonnel
Off icer
0                                          Building                                     Assistant          Work Permit      Manpower          Industrial
44                 1                  | Maintenance  IDirctor of                                                                              Ratin
o                                                                                        Culture
Education                             Admyustratie
Officers                             Assistant
0            i District  ||Stores &                                                                                                                                     1
Education                                           Supps 
,N           1 Officers
to                            Specia|Ist                 Registry
0                            Suptwlo|    Correspndem |
School                       hoolFeig                                 Fiel Officera
Pricips                       Pregamne



St. Lucia: Basic Education Project
C Cm
x U                                                    PROPOSED ORGANIATIONAL CHART
OF THE
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, CULTIRE & LABOUR
I PT
C~~~~~~~~~KE
EDUCATXON                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~PRI?JCIPAL   C~TWC- C7TR
U4                                   OFFICER                          frNAS rALI                     S RyTPAL |NTUIC
O                                                                     ANLS                       ASSISAT TIOX 
4-J~~~~~~~~~~~  (Intemax 7                                                VlXLDIrNG    SECRETARY   OFC
w                    DEPUT  g                       EPUTY CE            AudLitJ
,                   ZOEDUC. PLANKING                ISTRVCTION
0              6~ DSvrLoPHZYNT                                                         ASSISTANT     ACONSD'T
0                                                                                           SECREZTARY    ACUS-DPT
24i 
N                                              E. I     0.        E  ..   I                                  i
C:'AMIPRO~~~ORGANCRHT.SA.                                                                                               C
H i | PROJECT I | ~~~~~~~~~~~ADULT                                                                            UNEIVHSCO    |    S;
|EZDUCATIONAL|
TL ZSTING 
|  DATA                                   X |  ZWArfXJff70S|
| MAIZAGEZNT          S. I     .I
I           I ~~~CAMDU                                    
C :\AAl7PRlY%0RClANCHT'.SAM



Impact of Adjustment of Teacher to Student Ratios: Annex 4
ST. LUCIA: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPACT OF ADJUSTMENT OF TEACHER TO STUDENT RATIOS
1.    In view of developments in the banana industry and their likely fiscal impact, while the St. Lucia Government
might be able to maintain roughly its present high level of financial support for education, it is unlikely that there can
be any substantial sustained increase. The proposed project addresses key institutional weaknesses and educational quality
issues and poses the legitimate question as to where the recurrent financing will be found for the various increases in
spending that will be required.
2.     The 1993-94 teacher to student ratios in primary and secondary schools were, respectively, 1:27 and 1:17.1.
These ratios are generous by the standards of developing countries of the income level of St. Lucia.5 The situation at
individual schools varies widely; some secondary schools have ratios above 1:15 which is the norm for Liberal Arts
Colleges. Three points are noteworthy. First, the current generous ratios have not guaranteed high quality, if one judges
by the examination results of the school system at primary and secondary levels. Indeed, some of the best performing
primary and secondary schools in the country operate with ratios that are less generous than average." Second, research
has shown that, within certain limits, teacher to student ratios have little bearing on student performance. In basic
education, ratios of 1:50 and even as low as 1:60 can still lead to good results. Third, the provision of basic requirements
for effective teaching and learning-instructional materials, equipment and supplies, well maintained buildings, good
curricula, reliable testing and feedback, and good school supervisory services--has been severely constrained by lack of
funds. At the secondary level, the non-salary allocation for Government schools in 1993/94 was 7.32% of the sub-sector
budget; by contrast, for the excellently performing Assisted Schools, the proportion was 16.81%. At the primary level,
the non-salary share was 5.5%. Ironically, the provision of a level of teachers that is generous by comparison with other
countries has deprived both the teachers and students of the very investments needed to make them and the learning
process productive.
3.     At both levels of education there has been an unfortunate trend toward diversification, overloading and
fragmentation of curricula. New courses and programs have been added without weeding out old or existing ones. Each
addition exerts pressure on the teacher to student ratio in the form of demand for additional or new staff. Maintaining
any fixed ratios requires externally (at the level of MOE) careful programming of recruitment of staff and internally (at
the school level) efficient deployment of teaching staff. The fundamental controls should be on:
a.    teaching loads--ensuring that they are fair but adequate; a standard of 75% of the total weekly periods
5 Data from a sample of countries according to the UNESCO Statistical Yearbook 1993
Country                               Prinary                            Secondary
Year       Students per teacher      Year       Students per Teacher
Cameroon                1990                  51             1989                32
Gabon                  1991                   44             1991                32
Zimbabwe                1992                  38              1990                27
Jamaica                 1990                  37              1985                31
Trinidad & Tobago      1990                   26             1990                20
Korea                  1992                   33             1992                 24
Philippines             1991                  33             1991                32
6 The best performing secondary school had a ratio of 1:18.8 in 1992-93 compared to a national average of 1:18.0. One
consistently outstanding primary school in Castries had a ratio of 1:35 in 1992-93 compared to the national avcage of 1:27.
53



Impact of Adjustment of Teacher to Student Ratios:  Annex 4
comprising class teaching is reasonable at the secondary level; at the primary level free periods are not considered
a norm;
b.     class sizes-to avoid the uneconomic sizes of classes and related inefficient use of public resources,
reasonable thresholds, below which no class would be put on, need to be established and adhered to;
c.    flexibility in the use of teachers--placing the emphasis in small scale situations on multi functions (i.e
multi-grade teaching, teachers who carry more than one subject specialization, use of specialist teachers to teach
both special and general subjects, etc.); and
d.     streamlining of curricula--for example, instead of adding environment as a separate new subject to the
curriculum, one might intersperse its elements in the geography, hygiene, science, social science and agriculture
syllabi; a mainstream of the essential, important and affordable disciplines needs to be agreed upon for both
general and comprehensive schools. The more expensive the education program is, the lower the number of
persons that can be exposed to education.
In the final analysis, therefore, the problem is one of close monitoring which the Ministry is currently ill-equipped to
undertake. Thus, again ironically, the lack of sufficient staff at the Ministry to oversee the sector, instead of saving
money, actually creates conditions in which scarce resources are wasted.
4.     The urgent financial issue is two-fold-how to ensure availability of the resources for non-salary inputs so as to
support and sustain high quality and how to generate the funding for improved management of the system. The only
reasonable recourse is to adjust the presently over-generous teacher to student ratios.
5.     The following calculations are intended to show that a reasonable pace of adjustment of teacher to student ratios
can have a considerable financial impact.
At Primary Level
Year         Enrollment        Students per      Total          Decline in   Attrition p.a.  Net
Projection        Teacher           Teachers       demand       (resignation,   Recruitmnent
(Projected       needed                      etc. @ 3%)    Required
l_________________  R atios)
1992-93          31,900               27              ---                          -
1993-94          31,700               27             1,174             _              _        _
1994-95          31,500              27.5            1,145          29            34              5
1995-96          31,200               28             1,114          31            33              2
1996-97          31,000              28.5            1,088          26            32              6
1997-98          30,700               29             1,059          29            31              2
1998-99          30,400              29.5            1,031          28            31              3
1999-2000        30,000               30             1,000          31            30             (1)
54



Impact of Adjustment of Teacher to Student Ratios: Annex 4
At secondary level
Year      Enrollment    Demand for    Proposed         Teachers       Attrition      Net
Projection     teachers at    number of      required       (@ 3%)         Recruitment
(1992-94       current ratio   students per                                Required
Actual)       (1:17.1)        teacher
1992-93           9,169       507(1:18.1)                                      --
1993-94           9,721       569(1:17.1)
1994-95          10,229           595           18.0            568            17             16
1995-96          10,715           630           18.5            579            17             26
1996-97          11,247           662           19.0            591            18             30
1997-98          11,630           684           19.5            596            18             23
1998-99          11,944           703           20.0            597             18            19
1999-2000        12,259           721           20.5            598             18            19
6.    The cost comparison can be presented as follows:
Primary          Secondary
Average teacher salary 1993-94                                         in EC$             in EC$
$15,362           $19,768
1999-2000 total teachers' salaries under current ratios            $17,067,182       $14,252,728
1999-2000 total teachers' salaries under reduced ratios            $15,362,000       $11,821,264
Net Saving                                                         $ 1,705,182       $ 2,431,464
7.    Thus, the total net saving in 1999-2000 would be EC$4,136,646 at current prices in constant dollars.
8.    It is most important to note: first, that the incremental cost for new posts under the project and for the related
overheads (travel, training, office & general) would by 1999-2000 amount to EC$1,435,000. (Annex 9); and second, that
a more reasonable budget for supplies, materials, operations & maintenance and office & general expenses at the schools
would add the amount of EC$2,086,900. (Annex 9) In other words, the saving from this very modest adjustment of
teacher to student ratios would more than offset the increase of EC$3,521,900 under the categories indicated. This
reallocation of resources would provide a more efficient and cost effective mix of the resources required to produce high
quality education and management. It is a window of opportunity available to the sector in St. Lucia to better provide
for the current and future generation of children.
9.    It is also important to be realistic about this challenge. There will be no need to retrench teachers if one proceeds
at the modest pace indicated. Yet, as imperceptible as this change may seem, it will be felt by the teachers; the Ministry
should, therefore, ensure that there are compensating benefits in terms of better supplies and a more responsive and
efficient administration of school affairs, if morale is not to be further depressed. It will, however, be necessary to apply
the brakes hard on recruitment at the primary level until the current trend toward declining enrollments is reversed, as
it probably will be in 6-7 years' time. At the secondary level, the deceleration in recruitment of new teachers will not
55



Impact of Adjustment of Teacher to Student Ratios: Annex 4
be as great, but there will still be need for restraint. This change in the evolution of the number of teachers will facilitate
concentration on raising the average qualifications of teachers at both primary and secondary levels, which will also raise
the overall cost, but simultaneously provide a better yield in terms of education.
10.    The Ministry should, therefore:
a.    take steps to curtail the recruitment of new primary teachers;
b.     design and implement guidelines for all schools to follow on the controls cited in para. 3 above and
accordingly monitor their time-tabling, and
c.     produce the necessary detailed annual programming (as part of the proposed planning and the annual
budget preparation) of the changes in respect of the civil establishment, the teaching service and the budgetary
allocations for non-salary supports, as these are phased in over the next five years.
56



Education Sector Financing Tables: Annex 5
Table 1
ST. LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Education Expenditures
(as percentage of Public Budget)
Year    1988/89       1989/90     1990/91      1991/92       1992/93      1993/94
Type of Expenditures
Recurrent                        22           23           23           21            21           24
of which distribution is:
Primary                        54           48          51            47           49            50
Secondary                      29           25          28            30           25            27
Tertiary                       10           10           14           12            13           13
Other                           7            7           7            11            13           10
Capital                          10           10           10           12            9             7
Source: Ministry of Planning, Personnel, Establishment & Training, 1993
Table 2
ST.LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Salary and non salary Budget Allocations at the School Level
(Recurrent Budget in EC$ - 1993/94)
Teachers       School Staff    Total Budget                  Budget Allocation
Salaries       (Salaries/Wages)*  for the Schools
% to Teachers   % to total     % to Non-
Salaries       Salary &        salary
Wages          purposes
Primary        27,051,113     29,532,698      31,247,518      86.57          94.51           5.49
All Schools
Secondary:
12 Gov        (11,846,234)    (13,715,877)    (14,799,302)    (80.05)        (92.68)         (7.32)
Secondary
Schools
2 Assisted     (2,076,913)    (2,248,282)    (2,702,697)    (76.85)          (89.19)         (16.81)
Secondary
Schools
Total          13,923,147      15,964,159     17,501,999     79.55           91.21            8.79
Secondary
Schools
* Includes all staff at the schools.
Source: Budgetary Estinates of St. Lucia 1993-94
57



Education Sector Financing Tables: Annex 5
Table 3
ST. LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Recurrent Education Expenditures per Pupil and Level
(in EC$ and %)
E d u c a t i o n                1989/90                                       1992/93
Level                            Amount                                        Amount
EC$            US$        As multiple of      EC$            US$        As multiple of
l__________    ___________      primary  cost                                 primary  cost
Primary             757            280              1              873           323             1
Secondary          1,697           628            2.2            1,459           540             1.7
Tertiary           7,064          2,616           9.3            8,368          3,099           9.5
Source: Ministry of Education, Culture and Labor
Table 4
ST. LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Public Sector Investment Program by Key Social Sectors
(as percent of total PSIP)
1993/94        1994/95         1995/96         1994/96
Education                                        21              13               8              14
Housing and Community Services                    9               5               3              7
Health                                            9               5              10              8
Total Social Sectors                             39              26              21              29
(Total PSIP (in million EC$)              I     267.2           207.3           236.1           217.6
Source: Ministry of Planning, Personnel, Establishment & Trining, 1993
58



Incremental Stafr Positions in MOE:  Annex 6
ST. LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Incremental Staff Positions Required in Ministry of Education. Culture and Labor
under Education Reform Process
POSITION TITLE                               UNIT TO WHICH ASSIGNED
Project Manager                                      Project Management Unit (PMU)
Procurement Officer                                  Project Management Unit (PMU)
Accountant II                                        Project Management Unit (PMU)
Clerk/Typist                                         Project Management Unit (PMU)
Statistical Officer                                  Data Management Unit (DMU)
Three (3) Curriculum Officers: (1) Mathematics; (2)  Curriculum and Materials Development Unit
Social Studies; (3) Science                         (CAMDU)
Clerk/Typist                                         Curriculum and Materials Development Unit
(CAMDU)
Two (2) Education Officers, Testing                  Education Testing and Examinations Unit (ETX)
Two (2) Executive Officers                           Education Testing and Examinations Unit (ETX)
Handyman                                             Education Testing and Examinations Unit (ETX)
Financial Analyst/Internal Auditor                   Internal Audit
Two Building Officers (Building Maintenance)         Building Maintenance Unit
Deputy Chief Education Officer (CEO)                 Education Planning & Development Office (EPDO)
Two (2) Secretaries to Deputy Chief Education Officers    Deputy CEO Education Planning & Development
(CEOs)                                               Office (EPDO)
& Deputy CEO Instruction
Two (2) District Education Officers (for new districts)  Deputy CEO Instruction
Education Officer Secondary                          Deputy CEO Instruction
59



Studies to be carried out under Basic Education Reform Project: Annex 7
ST. LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Studies to be Carried out by the Ministry of Education. Culture and Labor
1995-1996
Study                                      Targeted Completion Date
Management Audit of MOE                                               September 1995
Education and Training                                                   June 1996
Implications of Economic and Social Development and
Labor Market Demands
Teacher Effectiveness and Attrition                                   September 1997
Effective Schools Initiative:                                  Interim Report September 1997
Impact Analysis of School Supervision and School                Final Report September 1998
Performance Assessment Systems                                                                          l
Survey and Analysis of Reading Habits and Practices                   September 1997
among Children and Adults and Use of Public Library
Services
60



Project Costs: Annex 8
St. Lucia
Basic Education Project
Components Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(EC$ 000)                (USS 000)          Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange Costs
A. A. Institutional Strengthening
Al. Planning                                   210      634      844      78     235       313       75       3
A2. Educ Data Mngt                              32      516      548      12    191        203       94       2
A3. Project management                          32      580      612      12     215       227       95       2
A4. General Administration                      29      524      552      11      194      205       95       2
Subtotal A. Institutional Strengthening          303    2,254    2,557     112     835      947        88       8
B. B. Qualitative Improvement
B1. Teacher Training                           799    1,508    2,308     296     559      855        65       8
62. Curriculum Development                      84    1,769    1,853      31     655      686        95       6
B3. Testing and Measurement                    100      784      884      37     290      327        89       3
84. Education Materials                         77    1,077    1,154      28     399      427        93       4
B5. School Supervision                         286    1,006    1,292     106     373      478       78        4
Subtotal B. Qualitative Improvement            1,346    6,144    7,490     498   2,276    2,774        82      25
C. C. Expansion of Access
Cl. Four Secondary                           6,911   12,166   19,077   2,560   4,506    7,066        64      63
C2. Rehab. of Primary Schools                  480      719    1,199     178     266      444        60       4
Subtotal C. Expansion of Access                7,391   12,885   20,276   2,737   4,772    7,510        64      67
Total BASELINE COSTS                            9,040   21,284   30,323   3,348   7,883   11,231       70     100
Physical Contingencies                         987    1,889    2,876     366     700    1,065        66       9
PriceContingencies                             500    1,109    1,609     168     373      542        69       5
Total PROJECT COSTS                            10,526   24,282   34,808   3,882   8,956   12,838       70     114
61



Project Costs: Annex 8
St. Lucia
Basic Education Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Surnary
%     % Total
(ECS 000)                (US$ '000)          Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Construction                                   6,111    9,166   15,277   2,263   3,395    5,658        60      50
Rehab /Repair Primary                            448      672    1,121     166     249       415       60       4
Subtotal Civil Works                             6,559    9,838   16,397   2,429   3,644    6,073        60      54
B. Goods
1. Equipment and Furniture
Computers, Printers and Software               21    1,040    1,062        8      385      393       98       4
Other Equipment                                 40    1,963    2,004      15     727       742       98       7
Furniture                                     317       813    1,130     117     301       418       72       4
Subtotal Equipment and Furniture                 378    3,817    4,195     140   1,414    1,554        91      14
2 Books&Educat.Materials                         22    1,078    1,100        8      399      407       98       4
3 Supplies and Miscell.                           19      913      932       7     338       345       98       3
Subtotal Goods                                     419    5,808    6,227      155   2,151    2,306       93      21
C. Training                                        747        -      747     277        -      277         -      2
D. Technical Assistance
Works Design/Eng./SPN                            763    1,145    1,909     283      424      707       60       6
Experts                                           81    1,539    1,620      30     570       600       95       5
FelIowships                                      140    2,668    2,808      52     988    1,040        95       9
Subtotal Technical Assistance                      985    5,352    6,337     365   1,982    2,347        84      21
E. Studies                                         251      167      419      93       62      155       40        1
Total Investment Costs                             8,961   21,165   30,126   3,319   7,839   11,158        70      99
It. Recurrent Costs
A. Maintenance
Equipment                                         79      118      197      29       44       73       60        1
Total Recurrent Costs                                 79      118      197      29       44       73       60        1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                9,040   21,284   30,323   3,348   7,883   11,231        70     100
Physica! Contingencies                             987    1,889    2,876     366      700    1,065       66       9
Price Contingencies                                500    1,109    1,609     168      373      542       69       5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                10,526   24,282   34,808   3,882   8,956   12,838        70     114
62



St. Lucia
Basic Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$ '000)
020 The      030 Caribbean                                  Local
010 IBRDI1DA    Governrment  Development Bank         Total             For.  (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount    %            Arount    %       Exch.  Taxes)  Taxes
I. Investrent Costs
A. Civil Works
Construction                                  2,410    35.6   1,835    27.1    2,517      37.2    6,762    52.7   4,057   2,029      676
Rehab./Repair Primary                          334    75.2    110    24.8          -        -      445      3.5    267      133       44
Subtotal Civil Works                            2,744    38.1   1,945    27.0    2,517      34.9    7,207    56.1   4,324   2,162      721
B. Goods
1. Equipmnent and Furniture
Computers, Printers and Software             427   100.0       0        -        -        -      427      3.3    419       9         -
Other Equipment                              814   100.0       0        -        -        -      814      6.3    798      16
Furniture                                    457   100.0       0        -        -        -      457      3.6    329     128
Subtotal Equipmnent and Furniture             1,699   100.0       0       -        -        -    1,699    13.2   1,546      153
2. Books&Educat.Materials                      364    82.7       76    17.3        -        -      440      3.4    431       9
3. Supplies and Miscell.                       390   100.0        0       -        -        -      390      3.0    382        8
Subtotal Goods                                  2,453    97.0      76     3.0        -        -    2,529    19.7   2,359      170
C. Training                                         -       -    306   100.0         -         -     306      2.4       -    306
D. Technical Assistance
Works Design/Eng./SPN                          274    37.3    461    62.7          -         -     736      5.7    441      294
Experts                                        647   100.0        0       -        -        -      647      5.0    614      32
Fellowships                                    610    52.9        0       -      544     47.1    1,154      9.0   1,097     58
Subtotal Technical Assistance                   1,531    60.4    461    18.2       544      21.4   2,537    19.8   2,152      384
E. Studies                                          -       -    176   100.0         -         -     176      1.4      70     105        -
Total Investwent Costs                            6,728    52.8   2,964    23.2    3,061      24.0   12,754    99.3   8,906   3,128      721
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Maintenance
Equipment                                         -       -      84   100.0        -        -       84      0.7     50      34         -
Total RecurrentCosts                                  -       -      84   100.0         -        -      84      0.7      50      34        -
Total Disbursement                                 6,728    52.4   3,048    23.7    3,061     23.8   12,838   100.0   8,956   3,161      721
63                                                    Project Costs: Annex 8



St Lucia
Basic Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
C. Expanding Access to
Schools
A. Sector Planng & Inst Strengtg                  B. Qualitative Improvement                                           C2.
A2. Educ    A3.                       S1.        B2.      B3. Testing    94.                          RehabIRepalr
Al.     Data    Project    A4 General  Teacher Curriculum           and     Education  B5. School Cl. Four  of Primary
Planning   Mngt   anageme  Administration Training  evelopmen  easuremen Materials Supervislon Secondar   Schools             Total
1 Investment Cots
A. Civil Works
Construction                                                       -        -                                                          17          -         238     6,507             -   6,762
Rehab./Repair Pnmary                                               -   -               -               -        -           -                                                       445      445
Subtotal Civil Works                                                     1-               -              -        -           -           7          -         238     6,507          445    7.207
B. Goods
1. EquIpment and Furitture
Computers, Prnters and Sottware                                22       26          20             18                   1 190        69        38          44          -            -      427
Other Equipment                                                 5         8         14              8         -          17          16        14          54        679            -      814
Furniture                                                      11        10          9              5         -          24          20         9           18       352            -      457
Subtotal Equipment and Fumiture                                  38        44         43             31         -         230         104        61          117     1,030            -    1,699
2 Books&Educat Matenals                                            -        -          -              15        -         259            -      152           13         -                   440
3 Supplies ard Miscell                                           41       36          47             33         -          75          52        58          47                       -      390
Subtotal Goods                                                     79        79         90             80         -         565         156       272          178     1,030             -    2,529
C Training                                                           1        1           -              -      295           4            -         -           6         -             -     306
D. Technical Assistance
Works Design/Eng /SPN                                              -        -          -               -        -           -           1          -         25        679           31      736
Experts                                                          78       78         128             51         -          52         119       102          38          -            -      647
Fellowships                                                      59       59          22             86      663          118          29        59          59          -            -    1 154
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                     137       137        150            138       663         170         149       161          122       679           31    2.537
E. Studies                                                        125                    .               .        .           -          28        23            -         -            -      176
Total Investment Costs                                              342       217        240            217       957         739         350       456          543     8,216          476   12,754
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Maintenance
Equipment                                                         5        5           5              5         -          11           9         7           3         35            -       84
Total Recurrent Costs                                                 5         5          5              5         .          11           9          7           3        35             -      84
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                  347       221        245            222       957         750         359       462          547     8,251          476   12,838
Taxes                                                                -        -          -               -        -           -           2          -         24        651           44      721
Foreign Exchange                                                  259      208         232            210      630          716         318       431         423      5,243          285    8 956
64                                                                        Project Costs: Annex 8



[INfiniated Increiiieiiial J{ectirrent Costs:   Annex 9
ST. LUCIA: BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
ESTIMATED INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS GENERATED BY THE PROJECT
1.    Incremental recurrent costs would be generated by the project by the year 2000 for the following: a) new positions
in the administrative establishment; b) increased allowances for materials, supplies, operations & maintenance in primary,
and the same plus office & general in secondary schools: c) expenditure increases for headquarters in areas such as travel,
training, operations, office & general and for new (and strengthened existing) District Offices; and d) operating
expenditures for the new secondary school places provided under the project;
New Positions
2.    The new positions expected to be created in connection with this project (and the related salaries) are estimated
to be of the order of EC$ 750,000.
Increased Allowances at the School Level
3.    An increase in the budget for materials and supplies at the primary schools particularly but also at secondary
schools, will be essential to any reform and improvement effort. Without this increase, the entire investment would yield
little actual qualitative gains. The suggested scale of these increases, based on the assessment of problems cited by the
consultants during project preparation and of MOE staff throughout project generation, is as follows:
Budgetary Allocation      Proposed Allocation (Year  Net Increase
(1994-95) (EC$)           2000)                     (EC$)
(EC$)__                      _  _  _ _  _ _   _  _
Primary                  1,760,000                  3,402,000                 1,642,000
Secondary                 851,100                   1,296,000                  444,900
TOTAL                    2,611,100                  4,698,000                 2,086,900
65



Estimated Incremental Recurrent Costs:   Annex 9
The basis for these increases is as follows:
Item                            Primary                              Secondary
US Dollars          EC Dollars          US Dollars        EC Dollars
Allowance per school              15,0007           40,500             40,000             108,000
Cost for all schools            1,260,000         3,402,000           480,000           1,296,000
Per student Cost                  40.54              109.46             57.14              154.27
Current per student costs                             56.63                                101.41
(1993-94)
Percentage increase over                              93.4                                 52.1
current costs
Expenditure Increases at Head Office
4.    It would be impossible to calculate all additional overhead administrative costs for Head Office; nevertheless, it
is clear that there will be additional expenditure requirements for travel of new staff scheduled as travelling officers,
especially for the PMU and ETX, and such other units as CAMDU. With the reform emphasis on in-service training,
there will be need for an increased number of workshops, seminars and courses. Office and general expenses would also
rise.
5.            A notional picture of these additional costs in EC dollars is as follows:
Travel               Training       Office & General
General Admin.                      40,000                15,000        10,000
CAMDU                               30,000                20,000        25,000
ETX                                 20,000                15,000        120,000
PMU                                 40,000                10,000        50,000
DMU                                 10,000                10,000        30,000
Building Maintenance                20,000                20,000        25,000
EOs Primary & Secondary             30,000                50,000        15,000
New District Ed Offices                --                 50,000        15,000
Improved Dist. Ed Offs                 --                 10,000         5,000
TOTAL                               190,000              200,000       295,000
Total: EC$ 685.000
7  This would comprise $7,500 for materials and supplies and $7,500 for operations and maintenance.
66



Estimated Incremental Recurrent Costs:   Annex 9
Operatinig expenditure for new Secondary places
6.    The total budget (1993-94) for the 12 Government-run schools amounted to EC$14,799,302 for 8,460 students:
School                Expenditure        No. of Students              Cost per Student
Vieux Fort Comp.          2,350,301                 1,408                     1,669.25
Choiseul                   869,389                   481                      1,807.46
Clendon Mason             1,018,574                  604                      1,686.38
Castries Comp.            2,041,628                  771                      2,648.02
Soufriere Comp.           1,088,004                  564                      1,929.09
Leon Hess Comp.           1,438,920                  736                      1,955.05
Entrepot                  1,117,776                  615                      1,817.52
Corinth                   1,095,738                  642                      1,706.76
Micoud                    1,269,021                  781                      1,624.87
Vide Bouteille            1,015,480                  658                      1,543.28
George Charles             693,984                   463                      1,498.89
Sir Ira Simmons            800,487                   737                      1,086.14
Total                    14,799,302                 8,460                     1,749.32
Although there were significant differences in unit costs at the various schools, the average unit cost of $1,749.32 could
reasonably be used. This would produce, for the 1,675 additional places to be provided under the project, a total
incremental cost of EC$2.929.575 (US$1,085,028 equivalent).
SUMMARY
7.           The incremental recurrent cost may therefore be stated as follows:
i.    Additional Administrative/Technical Posts ..... 750,000
ii.   Increased non-salary allowances at schools .... 2,086,900
iii.   Selected operating overheads at MOE ........... 685,000
iv.    Operating cost of new school places ........... 2,929,575
TOTAL... .EC$6.451.475
67



Financing Plan: Annex 10
Table 1
SAINT LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Financina Plan by Year
(USS thousand)
GOVERNMENT           IDA/IBRD              CDB                TOTAL
Year      Amount          %  Amount           %  Amount          %  Amount           %I
1995        926        23     2,252        55       894        22     4,072       100
1996       1,450       22     3,624        55     1,516        23     6,590       100
1997        394        29       534        39       440        32     1,368       100
1998        154        33       164        35       150        32       468       100
1999        126        37       152        45        60        18       338       100
Total      3,048       24     6,728        52     3,061        24    12,838       100
Note: Figures may not add due to rounding
68



St. Lucia
Basic Education Project
Components by Financiers
(USS '000)
020 The      030 Caribbean                                 Local
010 IBRD/IDA    Government  Development Bank         Total            For.  (Excl. Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount    %           Amount   %       Exch.  Taxes)  Taxes
A. A. Sector Planng & Inst. Strengthg
Al. Planning                                 217    62.5    130    37.5          -       -      347     2.7    259       88
A2. Educ Data Mngt                           216    97.5       5      2.5        -       -      221      1.7    208      13
A3. Project management                       240    98.1       5      1.9        -        -     245      1.9    232      13
A4. General Administration                   217    97.9       5      2.1        -       -      222      1.7    210      12
Subtotal A. Sector Planng & Inst. Strengthg    890    86.0    144    14.0          -       -    1,035      8.1    910    125
B. B. Qualitative Improvement
B1. Teacher Training                         119    12.4    295    30.8       544      56.8     957     7.5    630    328
B2. Curriculum Development                   734    97.9      16      2.1       -        -      750     5.8    716       34
B3. Testing and Measurement                  316    87.8      44    12.2         -       -      359     2.8    318       40        2
B4. Education Materials                      357    77.1    106    22.9          -       -      462     3.6    431       31
B5. School Supervision                       443    81.0    104    19.0         -        -      547     4.3    423      100       24
Subtotal B. Qualitatve Improvement            1,969    64.0    563    18.3      544      17.7   3,076    24.0  2,517    533         26
C. C. Expanding Access to Schools
Cl. Four Secondary                          3,511    42.6  2,222    26.9    2,517      30.5   8,251    64.3  5,243   2,357       651
C2. Rehab/Repair of Primary Schools          358    75.2    118    24.8          -       -      476     3.7    285      146       44
Subtotal C. Expanding Access to Schools       3,869    44.3  2,340    26.8    2,517     28.8   8,726    68.0  5,529   2,502        695
Total Disbursement                            6,728    52.4  3,048    23.7    3,061      23.8  12,838   100.0  8,956   3,161       721
Financing Plan: Annex 10
69                                                           Table 2



Technical Assistance Requirements:    Annex 11
ST. LUCIA: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REOUIREMENTS
Project           No. of       Duration           Timing                                     PURPOSE
Subcomponent/    Persons       in months
Categoryl
A. EXPERTS
Sector Planning & Institutional Strengthening
Educational            1            4         Summer '95,       Advise on and assist in preparing a long-range integral plan for education
Planning                                      '96               & training; to identify the major issues in the development of the sector
(including institutional, qualitative and quantitative aspects) and the medium
and long term solutions, the program of studies and research to be
undertaken in support of the planning effort and the programming of
change and growth. To train planning staff and orient other staff toward a
more coUaborative in the planning process.
Data                   1            6         Summer '95,       Assist in establishing a data management system for MOE, prepare manuals
Management                                    '96               on, and train staff in, its use. The system would include data bases
encompassing aU students, teachers, schools and provide details of budget,
finance and physical plant of the system.
Project                1            8         Feb-Oct 1995      Assist in establishing and organizing the PMU and train staff; and identify
Management                                                      scope for the procedures developed in the PMU to be diffused throughout
MOE.
l  1         2        Mar-Apr 1995      Assist in procurement of equipment and civil works.
General
Administration:
Management             1            6          Summer '95,    Review organization, operations, systems and procedures of MOE (Head
Audit                                        '96                Office, sub-offices & schools) and their efficiency and effectiveness;
identify key issues and the requirements for improving efficiency of
delivery of service to the schools and prepare the outline of a plan for
institutional development within MOE.
Qualitative Improvement:
Curriculum             1            4         Summer '95,       Assist in coordinating curriculum development; advise on approaches used
Development                                  '96                in developing curricula and the links to be maintained with other related
services; identify research requirements and priorities and propose
strategies to be used in curriculum implementation and supervision.
Educational            1            2         Jan-Feb 1996      Advise and train CAMDU staff in desktop publishing and in production
Materials                                                      tasks generally and use and care of production equipment. Examine the
Production                                                      scope for expanded education local production of teaching materials.
Textbook               1            6         Summer '95,       Review and advise Government on policy and procedures regarding
Publishing                                   '96                publishing & procurement of teaching materials; train CAMDU staff in
publishing techniques (selecting & training writers, iUlustrators, the editing
role, etc); consult with OECS on sub-regional and regional collaboration.
Educational            1            9         Summer '95,       Advise and assist in establishing the Testing and Examinations Unit,
Testing &                                     '96; Jan-Mar      establish (ETX) the system for improving existing tests & developing new
Measurement                                   1997              ones, prepare research proposals and designs, assist in developing norms
and standards, advise on testing and research priorities and prepare
manuals and train staff of ETX and MOE generally in the area of
specialization (item writing, interpretation of results, design of tests and
test batteries etc.).
School                 1            3        Jun-Aug '95        Advise on promoting school effectiveness and on coordinating the
Supervision      l_l___|_necessary contributions of specialized staff toward this end.
TOTAL             10            50
70



Technical Assistance Requirements:    Annex 11
Project           No. of       Duration           Timing                                     PURPOSE
Subcomponent      Persons
B. FELLOWSHIPS
Educational            2           2 y.       (i) 9/95-7/96;    Advanced training in Educational Planning & Development
Planning                                      (ii)9/96-7/97
Data                   2           2 y.       9/95-7/96         Advanced training in Statistics (1);
Management                                                      Advanced training in statistics and use of computers (1).
Project                3          12 w.       1-3/95            Study tours to other Project Units in Caribbean countries, visit to Bank for
Management                                                      orientation in project procurement, management and disbursement and
accounting requirements; and suitable attachment of Procurement Officer to
procurement agency.
General
Administration:
Financial              1           1 y.       9/95-7/96         Training in financial analysis and financial management
management
Education              1           1 y.       9/95-7/96         Advanced training in Educational Management with special attention to
Administration                                                  managing reform.
Education              2          12 w.       8-10/95           Study Tours to countries undergoing Education Sector reform, attendance
Administration                                                  at seminars on policy analysis, effective schools etc.
Teacher Training       4           4 y.       9/95-6/96:2       Training in the training of teachers.
9/96-6/97:2
8          24 y.      9/95-6/98:4       Training to the B.Ed level in Science/mathematics.
9/96-6/99:4
Curriculum             4           4 y.       9/95-8/96         Advanced training in curriculum design, research and supervision with
Development                                                     attachments (one in each core subject).
Education              2           2 y.       9/95-8/96         Advanced training in general editing and publishing (1) and art editing and
Materials                                                       publishing (1) and related attachments.
Educational            1           1 y.       9/95-8196         Advanced training in educational testing, measurement and related research
Testing and                                                     and attachment to CXC.
Measurement
School                 2           2 y.       9/95-8/96         Advanced training in school supervision and management and related
Supervision                                                     attachment.
TOTAL             32          43.5 y.
71



Implementation Program:   Annex 12
ST. LUCIA: BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
Category        CY94                      CY95                                   CY96                                     CY97
O N D    J F M   A M J    J AS    0 N D           J F M   A M J   J A S   0 N D          J F M   A M J       J A S   0   0 D
CIVIL WORKS      E E      D D D    D I I    I B A    C CC    C C C    C C C           C C C   G G G    G G G
a.SchooLs
b. DEOs         E E      D     D    D D D    I II    B    A    C C C         CCC    C C C   G G G    G GG G
c. Rehab.       D D      I I B    A A C    C  C        D D D    I I B    A A C    C C C          =                   =         =         =_|
EquipFtert        L       I II I    B  A      YYY    Y Y Y
a. Hqtrs                                   I                   I
b.Primary        L L      I I I    B R A    AA-    YYY Y_----
c.Secondary      L L      I L L  L    L I    I   I    B B A    A A -    Y Y Y    Y N N
&     DEOs__                           _  ___                                            _ _   __  _ _   __   _  _
TA:Experts
(EPU)                R  R R R  R R    00-                 -           -          0  0 - -  -
(DMU)                R    R R R    R RR       0000 0 -                                  0
(PMU)                R    R         0 0 O O 0    000    0 - -    - - -    - - -    - - -   -
(ADM)                R R R R R R- 00-        -                                        - O 
(CUR)                R    R R R    R RO    0 --    - - -    - - -                0    0- - 
(PUB)                R  R R R  RRO  000-- -                                      0  0 - -
(PRO)                R    R R R    R RR    RRR    R RR            0 0-
(T&M)                R  R R R  RRO 00                       - -    -    000  ---  0 0 
(SPN)                Rf        R  R     R    R 0 R   00  O 
TA:Fellows
EPU-1 staff        S S    P P P   -      -     -         T T T    T T T    T T T    T T 0
EPU-1 staff        SS    S S S    0 00    000    00 O0    0 00    000    00 0                   TT T    T TT    T TT          T         - --
DMU-2 staff        S S    S S S    P 0 0    000    T T T    TTT    T T T    T                   - - -
PMU-3 staff        S S    TTO       - - -
ADM-2 staff        S S    S S S    P P P    PPP    T T T    T T                T TT    TOO      - - -
ADM-2 staff        S S    S PP    P P P       PTT    TOO           - - -
TT--2 staff        SS    S P P    P P P    PPP    T  TT           T TT    T T T         00    - - -
TT--2 staff                                   S S P  P P P -T T T  T T T   T T T  T 0 0  - - -
TT--4 staff        S S    S P P  -T T T    T T T    T T T    0 0 0   T T T    T T T    T T T    - - -   T T T
TT--4 staff                - -                S P P-T I  T T T  T T T  - - - T                                                               T T
Misc'staff    S  S       S P P    P P P    P P P    T T T    T T T    T T T    T T T   00 0    - - -
Locat Trg:                 -XX - -XX                                                                -- X               - XX X -  X
a. Special
Program
b.Workshops               -                   X -                                     X X-                 =                  X X
Stuies.                             X X X     XXX    X          XXX   X I    X X         X I             I  X               X  XXX    X   X   X
B Includes cquipment, furniture, books, materials and supplies (for offices and schools as indicated).
9 Includes EPU, DMU, PMU, Admin., ETX, CAMDU (Teaching Materials & Curriculum).
10 Includes Curriculum (4), General Editing (1), Art Editing (1), Testing (1), Supervision (2); all with formal training plus
attachments.
72



Implementation Program:   Annex 12
Category                                    CY98                                                   CY99
J F h    A H J    J A S   O N D                        J F N     A N J   J A S    O N D
Civil Works-
c. Rehab                                                   .
Fellows TT-4                T T T         T T T         0 O O
--ditto---                  T T T         T T T         - - -         T T T         T T T        T T T         0 0 0
LocaL Trg.                   - - -        - - -         X X           - - -         - - -         - - -        X X-
a. Special Program       _
b. Workshops                                            X XX-                                                  X X           -
Studies                     X XX          X X X         X X X         X X X         X X X         X X X        X X X         X X X
LEGEND:
A: Award of Contracts
B: Bid Analysis
C: Construction (Civil Works)
D: Architectural Designs and Bidding Documents
E: Site survey/acquisition
G: Liability/Guaranty Period
1: Invitation to Bid
L: Preparing equipment Lists & specifications
N: Installing & Comnissioning Equipment etc.
0: On the job
P: Placement of fellows
R: Recruitment of experts
S: SeLection of candidate for feLlowship
T: Tenure of fellowship (on training course)
X: Study or workshop on-going
Y: Supply/delivery of equipment, furniture books etc.
73



Disbursement Allocations: Annex 13
St. Lucia                                              Table 1
Basic Education Project
Disbursements by Semesters and Government Cash Flow
(US$ 000)
Financing Available
030             Costs to
Caribbean             be
010   Development          Financed e Government
IBRD/IDA    Bank              Project  Cash  Cumulative
Amount   Amount    Total   Costs   Flow   Cash Flow
1          1,126         447   1,573    2,036    -463        -463
2          1,126         447   1,573    2,036    -463        -926
3          1,812         758   2,570    3,295    -725      -1,651
4          1,812         758   2,570    3,295    -725      -2,376
5           267          220     488      684    -197      -2,573
6            267         220     488      684    -197      -2,769
7             82          75     158      234      -77     -2,846
8             82          75     158      234      -77     -2,922
9             76          30     106      169      -63     -2,985
10            76          30     106      169      -63     -3,048
Total        6,728        3,061   9,789   12,838       -      -2,985
74



Disbursement Allocations: Annex 13
Table 2
SAINT LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Disbursement Allocations
ALLOCATION           l
CATEGORY                                      IBRD               PERCENTAGE
(000)       (US $000)
1. Civil Works                                                          New Schools ' and other
construction/refurbishing:
l.a. Construction and Professional Fees    790.0         1173.0      64% of total cost
l.b. Rehabilitation of Primary              120.0        179.0       75% of total cost
Schools and Professional Fees
2. Goods
2.a. Equipment, Furniture, Educ.            760.0        1132.0       100% of foreign expenditures
Materials, Computers and                                          100% of local expenditures
software, Supplies, misc.                                         (ex-factory costs)
2.b. Basic Textbooks                         30.0          36.0       50 % of eligible expenditures
3. Technical Assistance
3.a. Expert Services                       210.0          308.0       100%
3.b. Fellowships                           200.0          290.5       100% 2
4. Unallocated                                190.0         245.5
TOTAL                       2,300.0        3364.0
1: Construction of a new secondary school in Laboric District, and replacement and expansion of size of Soufrierc Comprehensive
Secondary School.
2: Excluding fellowships at the undergraduate level in the subjects of science and education and mathematics and education, which
will be financed by the Caribbean Development Bank.
75



Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators and Supervision Plan: Annex 14
ST. LUCIA: BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS
I .          The project comprises three distinct but interrelated components: a sector planning and institutional strengthening
component, a qualitative improvement component, and an expansion program for secondary education along with provision for
rehabilitation and repair of primary schools. The method of monitoring and evaluation will, therefore, have to be adapted to
each type of component. While precise benchmarks of institutional performance and the quality of education do not exist, some
indicators can be used. It is important for both St. Lucia and the other OECS countries that this first reform project be well
evaluated. To this end, the following table sets out the indicators to be applied in monitoring project implementation.
Component/Sub-    Targets                                    Monitoring & Evaluation Indicators
Component
A. SECTOR PLANNING AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHIENING
I. Sector     a. Expand and strengthen Planning Unit via  a. By Sep. 1996, first planner trained; by Sep.
Planning      training two planners;                     1997, second planner trained;
b. Prepare a Long Range Plan;              b. By Oct. 1995, Draft Long Range Plan Outline
c. Employ an expert to assist the EPU of the    prepared, tentative 1996-2001 sector development
Education Planning and Development Office    program drawn up and related studies identified;
(EPDO).                                    c. By Oct. 1996, Draft Plan published for public
d. Conduct select planning and policy-related    discussion;
studies and surveys                        d. By Jan. 1997, Plan approved by Goverrnent.
e. Identified studies satisfactorily carried out, per
agreed timetable
2.            a. Establish separate Data Management Unit   a. By Feb. 1995, the DMU established;
Educational   (DMU) as first phase; second phase, not    b. By Sep. 1995, programming for Phase I done.
Data System   included in project, will be full automation of   c. By Sep. 1996, two statisticians trained and
data management.                           functioning and compilation of data bases for all
b. Train two statisticians, one with a     students and schools in process.
specialization in use of computers;        d. By Mar. 1997 completion of all data bases for
c. Computerize sector data, including students,  schools, finance, planning etc.
teachers, schools, budget, accounts, personnel;
d. Employ expert to advise on & help
establish DMU.
3.General     a. Management Audit of MOE aimed at        a. By Sep. 1995, the management audit
Admini        identifying precise measures needed to     completed and related studies underway;
stration     improve organization, procedures, and       b. By Sep. 1996, recommendations for
operations;                                restructuring and revised procedures, etc.
b. Train two persons, one in financial     completed.
analysis; one in educational administration;  c. By Sep. 1997, agreed recommendations
c. Study tours--2 senior staff for discussions    implemented.
on educational reforms overseas & attendance
at related seminars.
76



Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators and Supervision Plan: Annex 14
Component/Sub-    Targets                                     Monitoring & Evaluation Indicators
Component
4. Project    a. Establish a Project Management Unit      a. By Mar. 1995, PMU established and all staff
Management  (PMU) to carry out the project and employ an   and expert in post and three key staff trained via
and           expert to help set up the PMU and launch    Bank Course Attendance and other relevant
Development  implementation;                              training
b. Appoint a Project Manager, an Accountant   b. By Sep. 1995, all staff study tours completed;
and a Procurement Officer and a Clerk/Typist;  c. By Mar. 1996 and thereafter at six month
c. Train three staff on study tours for    intervals, project implementation on schedule;
orientation in project management and/or   d. Project operational and administrative
procurement                                procedures in use, as appropriate, throughout
d. Adopt as far as possible the procedures  MOE.
used in project management within the MOE.
B. QUALITATIVE IMPROVEMENT
1. Teacher    a. Train 4 staff of DTEAA in the training of    a. By Sep. 1996, the first two DTEAA staff
Training      teachers;                                   trained and Sep. 1997 the additional two trained;
b. Train 8-12 persons at the undergraduate  b. By Sep. 1995, the fist set of 4 fellows for
level for teaching secondary science &     Bachelor's degree programs placed in university;
mathematics;                               and by September 1996 the second set placed.
c. During the summers, upgrade about 300   c. By Sep. 1995, and in each summer 1996-99,
primary teachers in the core subjects (content   conduct of in-service training to upgrade
& pedagogy) and about 225 to a more        teachers; record of relationship of output to
advanced level;                            targets and via project financed study, impact
evaluation, completed.
2.            a. Revise curricula and syllabi for primary and  a. By Sep. 1995:
Curriculum    lower secondary education i.e Forms 1-3     * a 5 year program and target dates for revising
Development  b. Employ a curriculum expert to assist;     and introducing new curricula and the related
c. Train 4 Curriculum Officers in the core  studies prepared;
subject areas;                              * fellows placed at institutions of study;
d. Supply science kits and related storage  * contracts for the supply of science kits and
facilities to 84 primary schools;          supplementary science equipment awarded;
e. Supply supplementary science equipment  * textbooks for use by primary and secondary
and supplies to 8 upgraded existing secondary   teachers delivered to the schools;
schools;                                   b. By Sep. 1996, the returned fellows will have
f. Supply a set of basic textbooks to each  resumed duties; and in each successive
school for use by teachers.                September, the pre-set work program targets
g. Establish computer labs at three schools,  achieved.
one new and two existing and evaluate their    c. By Sep. 1998, evaluation of impact of
contribution to learning and achievement.  computer labs completed, via project-financed
studies
77



Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators and Supervision Plan: Annex 14
Component/Sub-    Targets                                     Monitoring & Evaluation Indicators
Component
3. Production   a. Train two staff--one in general editing &  a. By Sep. 1995, new policy on procuring
and           publishing and one in art editing & publishing;  textbooks adopted and 5 year work program
Procurement   b. Revise policy and procedures in procuring    prepared;
of            textbooks and in publishing;                b. By Sep. 1995, fellows selected and placed;
Educational    c. Improve production capacity, including  c. By Sep. 1996, staff trained by expert in
Materials     Desk top publishing;                        production;
d. Employ two experts--one in publishing and   d. By Sep. 1997, 1998, 1999, new teaching
one in production;                         materials tried out, produced and distributed
e. Reduce materials pilot period; accelerate  according to schedule.
production of new textbooks.
4.            a. Train one person in Testing;             a. By Mar. 1996, new Educational Testing and
Educational    b. Employ one expert to help establish the  Examinations Unit (ETX) established;
Testing &     Education Testing and Examinations (ETX);    b. By Mar. 1996, ETX provided with suitable
Measurement  Unit;                                        accommodation; and transport.
c. Design new tests for Stage 3, Std 2 & Form   c. By Sep. 1995,
3;                                          * ETX work program prepared for project
d. Improve existing tests at primary level;  implementation period,
e. Train item writers, school staff in using &  * one trained testing person employed and the
interpreting test results and in design of tests;   fellow selected and placed for training;
f. Establish norms & standards, item banks,    d. By Sep. 1996, training for item writers carried
etc.                                       out, project trained fellow on attachment to CXC
and work commenced on new tests;
e. By Sep. 1997, 1998, 1999, execution of
agreed work program in process.
5. School     a. Train two persons in School Supervision  a. By Sep. 1995, two fellows selected and
Supervision    b. Construct and Establish new Dist. Ed.   placed;
Office in Vieux Fort, expanded one in      b. By September 1995, seminar on effective
Choiseul, equip and strengthen operations of    schools conducted;
two existing Soufriere and Micoud District  c. By Sep. 1996, Fellows trained and returned
Office;                                    and program of construction and equipping of
c. Employ expert in Effective Schools;     District Offices completed;
d. Establish regular formal supervisory visits   d. By, Sep. 1997, 1998, 1999, all primary
to all primary schools at least once per year;    schools being visited formally according to
e. Conduct seminars, workshops and other   agreed schedule, and District Offices being used
training sessions at Dist. Ed. Offices and  regularly for the intended training and resource
institute regular use of office resources by  purposes intended.
school staff.
78



Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators and Supervision Plan: Annex 14
Component/Sub-    Targets                                     Monitoring & Evaluation Indicators
Component
C. EXPANDING ACCESS
1. Secondary   a. Design and Construction                 a. By Jul. 1995, Designs approved and tendering
School        b. Equipping, Staffing and full Utilization.  process underway;
Expansion                                                 b. By Oct. 1995, contracts for construction
awarded;
2. New Sec.                                               c. By Sep. 1996, buildings occupied and fully
Schools--                                                 equipped with staff trained in equipment use and
a. Anse Ger                                               preventive maintenance;
& Babonneau                                               d. By September 1999, new schools fully
enrolled.
b. New Sec.   a. Design and Construction                                   --as above--
School at     b. Equipping, Staffing and full Utilization
Laborie--&
replacement--
Soufriere
Comprehen
sive
c. Furnishing   a. Prepare lists, tender and purchase items  a. By Jun. 1995 Equipment and Furniture Lists &
and           required.                                   Specifications completed;
equipping of   b. Transfer, as far as possible, project   b. By Oct. 1995, tendering process started;
new and       techniques to Ministry's regular non-project    c. By Jan. 1995, contracts being awarded;
replacement    procurement.                               d. By Sep. 1996, all furniture, equipment and
schools                                                   supplies delivered, installed and commissioned.
e. By September 1997, equipment maintenance
contracts in effect, equipment maintenance
contracts in effect, and evidence of transfer of
procurement techniques from project to regular
non-project operations.
2.            a. Establish the project support program of  a. According to agreed annual program:
Rehabilitation  rehabilitation for the five-year implementation   * specification of works to be done for the
of Primary    period;                                      following calendar year, Oct-Dec.;
Schools       b. Conduct civil works according to schedule.   * tendering process, Jan-Mar;
c. Transfer of project procurement methods to   * award of contracts, Apr-May;
MOE operations, and appropriate as feasible.    * civil works, Jun-Sep.
b. By Sep. 1997, comparison of the state of the
schools with the state recorded under the
inventory produced in the course of project
preparation.
c. By Sep. 1997, evidence of any change in the
procedure for school rehabilitation and repair out
of non project funding that is attributable to the
L _____________ ____________________________________________  systems introduced under the project.
79



Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators and Supervision Plan: Annex 14
EVALUATION
2.    Evaluation of outcomes in the education sector presents two major difficulties: a) the indices available for assessing
qualitative improvement (such as examination performance or productivity in the labor market or within the education system)
are not amenable to direct and entire attribution to any one cause or factor, since multiple elements contribute to performance,
including the almost unmeasurable factor motivation; and b) the benefits of most programs of education or training are
manifested in a wide variety of ways, and often emerge only after a long period of time, so that early measurements risk being
quite incomplete and misleading. Nevertheless, some measures can be made that will produce some idea of improvement in
performance, even if precision is lacking. For this project the following measurements will be applied in a summative manner
at the time of preparing the Implementation Completion Report:
I .    Mana2ement Performance:
a.    The scope of duties performed by management above the discrete school level and the efficiency and
effectiveness with which these duties are being performed in 1999-2000 will be compared with the situation recorded
in the various consultant reports on the system in 1994 during project preparation. The comparison over the 5-year span
would include the qualifications, numbers and rank of the personnel complement. The Education Planning Unit will
be able to prepare the basic data and evaluate institutional strength. The same indicators would be explored at the school
level, along with a survey of the actual qualifications of principals and comparisons made between 1994 and 1999.
b.    The output of the key units of MOE will be assessed, in the light of the situation in 1994, in particular:
i.    the plans and programs prepared by EPU,
ii.   the data reliability timeliness and responsiveness to needs of reports prepared by DMU,
iii.   the capacity in project implementation,
iv.   the scope of the testing program and the extent to which it is influencing the daily routine of the schools,
v.    the output of tests in terms of number and quality produced by ETX,
vi.   the state of progress in revising and implementing curricula,
vii.  the output of educational materials in quantity and quality,
viii.  the data assembled on the progress of the Effective Schools initiative, and
ix.   the performance of the school supervisory function including application of School Performance
assessment in terms of its frequency and contribution to the schools as perceived by the staff of the
schools and the MOE managers.
c.    In addition, the agreements between the Bank/IDA and the Government on policy matters as delineated in the
Education Strategy letter presented as a condition of Loan and Credit Effectiveness will be monitored. Of particular note
will be progress in the adjustment of teacher to student ratios. Trends will also be assessed with regard to non-salary
budgets allocations for primary and secondary schools.
2.    School Performance
a.    The performance of the primary schools in the CEE as well as in the new tests at Grades 3 and 5 will be
examined for indications of improvement or other change and the performance of the students in the Form 3 examination
would also be monitored for any evidence of improvement year by year; a special effort would be made to review the
performance and identify problems encountered in operation of the three new project schools and one replacement school
financed by the project. Notably, for reasons of the recency of project investments, it is recognized that it will be
impossible to obtain data on any real project impact at the secondary level, except in regard to a better flow of school
supplies and potentially an increase in the proportion of nationals teaching at this level. Morale of the teachers as
measured by such indicators as absenteeism and attrition rates, and improvements in physical plants, will be important
areas of assessment and comparison.
80



Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators and Supervision Plan: Annex 14
b.    The 1999-2000 pattern of delivery of certain goods (supplies, equipment, materials) and services (Maintenance
of buildings, furniture and equipment) will be compared with performance in 1994 and the related budgets and per
student allocation compared with 1994 levels and with agreed targets.
ST. LUCIA BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Joint supervision missions with participation of IBRD and IDA, and the Government, in which CDB may participate,
are to be carried out twice annually, most likely in May and November and are to be linked to supervision of other OECS
Education projects. Annual supervision costs are estimated to be on the order of US$50,000 and will be shared with CDB. The
skill mix required would include an education specialist and an architect. By the Mid-Term Review in September 1997, the
modalities for supervision of the project will be reassessed to ensure their suitability for helping to bring the project to successful
conclusion.
81



Selected Documents and Data available in Project File: Annex 15
SAINT LUCIA - BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
Selected Consultant Documents and Data Available in the Project File
I.    Sector Planning and Institutional Development Component.
Educational Planning and Management, St. Lucia, June 1994, Dr. Gwendeline Williams and Mr. Wilbert King.
Cost and Financing of Education, St. Lucia, June and November 1994, Dr. Ralph Henry.
Financial Management, St. Lucia, June 1994, Mr. Livio Pino.
An Assessment of "the Information Systems Study Report by Computer Center Limited-1993", St. Lucia, October 1994, Dr.
A. Francis.
Physical Space Requirements, Ministry of Education, October 1994, Mr. Ralph Romain.
2.    Quality Improvement of Basic Education Component.
Teacher Training Assessment, St. Lucia, June 1994, Dr. Carol Keller.
School Supervision Component, St Lucia, June and July 1994, Dr. Donald Foster.
Curriculum Development/Science of the Basic Education Project, St. Lucia, June 1994, Ms. June M. George.
Curriculum Development/Language Arts of the Basic Education Project, St. Lucia, June 1994, Dr. Ian Robertson.
Curriculum Development/Mathematics of the Basic Education Project, St. Lucia, June 1994, Dr. Ian Isaacs.
Curriculum Development/Social Studies of the Basic Education Project, St. Lucia, July 1994, Ms. Dorien Pile.
Testing and Measurement Component, St. Lucia, June 1994, Dr. Larry Skurnik.
Production, Procurement and Evaluation of Teaching Materials, St. Lucia, June and July 1994, Dr. Daniel Koh.
Parameters of Summer In-service Teacher Training Program, October 1994, Mr. Ralph Romain.
3.    Expansion of Access Component
School Location Planning Study and Map, St. Lucia, June 1994, Mr. Rene Corradine.
Inventory of School Resources, St. Lucia, June 1994, Mr. Michael Owen.
Schedule of Accommodation for Proposed New Construction and Cost Estimates, October 1994, Mr. Ralph Romain.
82



IBRD 26505
HEA V  DOMINICAN        lS) ,-d (U) I                                                   61 00                                      60'55
REFUL C                          MoMrr  I",)
R- US,                 ANTIGUA o-d MARBLDA
NEV I                                                                                 - I ,
ST KITTS .od NEVIS           F
Mo-T--Ir, IUK)  DOMNECA _C/
ST VINCENT  L     :-1A0'140'
Goo Ik'         eARBADOS                                               Gros Islet
GENADINES
A,Ao )(')     onoo r Nub               GRENADA                                                             s Ise 
COL                                          T RINIDADo-d                                                   -            //
TOBAGO                                                      _   N        ,  
Z,               V E N E Z U E [A
S T.   L U  C  I A                                             CASTRIES         NYI '                            ,--
PRIMARY ROADS                                              I           -                                   -S
- -- -SECONDARY ROADS
-14t00_                    MAJOR TOWN                                                                                  ,S                                                 100-
0      SELECTED TOWNS                                           N-'                             N   N
AIRPORTS                                                   -                                  -
PORTS                                                                   /
RIVERS
-- --    PARISH BOUNDARIES
- - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ELEVATIONS (FEETI:         Anse La Rays         N           'F
2400 AND ABOVE
1800-2400
1200-1800
1 3155'                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1355-
600-1200                                                        rnnery
0-600
Caznvarie*s S                                                                o /             
I 3150'                                                                                                                                                               13'50' 
The ~ ~      ~      ~      ~       S o         f i bonais colrs deoiain  an  an   terifrmto
shor.; on this mop do n_t imly onteotofTeol Bn Gop
\   . r                    Vn -st _  tss               n  oM~~~~~~~~~icoud
-13'05                                     6100                                        605I  -4
O      I       2       3       4       5 MILES                                                                                                                 1994
T   I T 2   3 4      6    7   8 KILOMETERS                                          -    C3
Vieux Fort+/      Maria Islands
The boundaries, colors, denominations and ony other information                                             1
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Barnk Group, 
any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement 
or occeptance of such boundaries.
61 j05'                                    61 io0'                                     60vs55
DECEMBER I199A



