Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 21894
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38370; IDA-26760)
ONA
LOAN/CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$3 364 MILLION EQUIVALENT CREDIT SDR 2.3 MILLION
TO
SAINT LUCIA
FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
04/30/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar (EC)
EC 1 = US$ 0.47
US$ 1 = EC 2 80
FISCAL YEAR
April I March 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BERP                Basic Education Reform Project
CAMDU              Curriculum and Materials Development Unit
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CDB                Caribbean Development Bank
DFID               Department for International Development
GOSL                Government of St. Lucia
HRD                Human Resource Development
MOE                Ministry of Education
OECS                Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
OERU               Education Reform Unit
PAC                Project Advisory Committee
PMU                Project Management Unit
PSIP               Public Sector Investment Program
PSR                Project Status Report
SALCC               Sir Arthur Lewis Community College
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President.   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director    Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager.   Lenor A. Arnstrong



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SAINT LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
l Project Data                                                                            1
2 Principal Performance Ratings                                                           I
3 Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 2
4 Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    4
5 Major Factors Affecting implementation and Outcome                                    12
6 Sustainability                                                                         1 3
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         14
8 Lessons Learned                                                                       17
9 Partner Comments                                                                      18
10 Additionial Information                                                              20
Annex I Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     21
Annex 2 Project Costs and Financing                                                     24
Annex 3 Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     27
Annex 4 Bank Inputs                                                                     28
Annex 5 Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     30
Annex 6 Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfornnance                                       31
Annex 7 List of Supporting Documents                                                    32
Annex 8
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ProjectID  P038698                                          ProjectName ST LUCIABASICEDUCATION
REFORM PROJECT
Team Leader., Lenor A. Armstrong                            TL Unit. LCSHE
ICR Type. Core ICR                                          Report Date. May 8, 2001
1. Project Data
Name' ST LUCIA BASIC EDUCATION REFORM                 LIC/TFNumiber  CPL-38370;
PROJECT                                                        IDA-26760
Country/Department ST. LUCIA                                               Region. Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/s ubsector EE - Education Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD   02/23/94                                  Effective  01/24/95            01/24/95
Appraisal  12/20/94                                    MTR   07/05/97              07/05/97
Approval  01124/95                                   Closing  04/30/2000           10/31/2000
Borrower/lImplemitenting Agentcy   SAINT LUCIA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Other Partners   CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice Presidenl        David De Fer'anti
Country Manager'      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager        Xavier Coll                                Julian Schweitzer
Team Leader at ICR    Lenor A Armstrong                          Karen Lashman
ICR Primarv Author    Lenor A. Armstrong
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlike]y, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome S
Sustainability L
Institutional Development Impact- SU
Bank Perfomnance S
Borrower Performance' S
QAG (if available)        ICR
(Quality at Entry S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3 1 Original Objective
The St. Lucia Basic Education Reform Project (BERP) identified its over- all objective as
accelerating human resource development to ensure that the requisite manpower exists to attain
the desired economic transition in Saint Lucia. The project was co-financed by the Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB) and the Government of St. Lucia (GOSL). It supported the first stage
of a major reformn of basic education, aimed at "increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of the
education system, and at enhancing equity of access to educational opportunities" The project
was consistent with St. Lucia's 1995 Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) and the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) of April 1995, which considered Human Resource Development
(HRD) and poverty alleviation critical to the attainment of the goals of economic transition The
project objectives were also in accord with the Organization of Eastem Caribbean States (OECS)
Education Strategy.
It would have been useful to express the development and immediate objectives more clearly, and
as desired states of attainment, thus the development objective might have read as follows: an
increased availability of requisite manpower to effect desired economic and social change with the
immediate objectives being increased efficiency and effectiveness of the education system and
enhanced equity of access to educational opportunities. It should be underscored that the impact
of the development objective can only be assessed in the long term.
3 2 Revised Objective.
The development objective was not formally revised; however, the distinction of immediate and
development objectives was understood by the borrower. Monitoring indicators were discussed,
and the importance of focusing attention on the development objective during the course project
implementation was emphasized and agreed. These factors were incorporated during monitoring
and supervision.
3 3 Original Components
There were 3 major components:
wecto                                       which provided for fellowships and  expert
services in the areas of educational planning, data management, project management and the
conduct of a management audit; furniture, equipment and supplies; study tours; local training and
policy studies;
Oualitative Improvement of Basic Education through funding fellowships for teacher educators,
teachers, curriculum specialists, personnel involved in general editing and publishing, art editing
and publishing, educational testing and measurement; expert services in curriculum design and
research, educational materials production and publishing, school supervision, educational testing;
in-service training; furniture, equipment, educational materials and supplies;
Expansion of Access to Schools allowed for the construction of 4 secondary schools ( 3 new and
1 replacement school) ; rehabilitation of selected primary schools; furniture and equipment;
training in preventive maintenance
-2 -



Component                                    Appraisal Cost Estimates        Ratings
($US '000)
Total     Foreign   Local
Sector Planning & Institutional              947        835        112        S
Strengthening
Qualitative Improvement                      2.774      2,276      498        S
Expansion of Access                          7,510      4,772      2,737      S
Baseline Costs                               11,231    7,883       3,348          ..
Physical Contingencies                       1,065      700        366
Price contingencies                          542        373        168
Total Project Costs                       _  12,838    8,956       3,882
All components and activities were appropriate to the achievement of project objectives; however,
lessons of experience from the OECS Regional Vocational and Technical Education Project, in
which St. Lucia participated, were not taken into account sufficiently. Specifically, the
"substantial delays in start up and completion of construction, and the pervasive lack of
maintenance of new and rehabilitated facilities" ought to have signaled the need for special and
specific attention to these issues in the BERP project. Although there was obvious awareness, as
described in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the measures included turned out to be
inadequate. In addition, the goal of poverty alleviation was not accorded priority, although
inherent in the objective of enhanced equity.
3 4 Revised Components.
The components remained unchanged; however, the issue of poor maintenance was more directly
targeted. The development of a maintenance policy and action plan, (an activity already in CDB's
SAR) was given emphasis.
3 5 Quality at Entty
The project received a satisfactory rating given the consistency with government priorities, and
objectives of the CAS, PSIP, as well as sub-regional education reform strategies. Considerable
preparatory work was undertaken; however, the civil works component, might have benefited
from more detailed preparation, with respect to feasibility studies, architectural drawings based on
actual building sites, prior to negotiation. In general, project design was appropriate, albeit
challenging relative to the capacity of the PMU and MOE staff at appraisal. The Ministry of
Education (MOE) struggled in the initial years, to implement its first major externally funded
project, which involved two separate intemational financial institutions: the World Bank and
CDB. The project was heavily "front-ended" thus imposing strain on a fledgling project
management unit (PMU) familiarizing itself with the procedures of both Banks, coordinating
project activities amongst a wide span of units and schools, and liaising with other government
ministries to facilitate implementation. In this regard, greater support for effecting change might
have been included in the project design.
-3 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
41 Outcome/achievement of objective
BERP has successfully met almost all of its targets aimed at achieving the immediate objectives
of increased efficiency and effectiveness of the education system, and equity of access to
educational opportunities. Some targets were exceeded in the area of training of teachers and
school supervisors. There has been an increase of students from previously undeserved areas now
able to access secondary level education. Enrollment in secondary schools now stands at 12,687
students (2000/01) an increase of 7.8 % over the 1994/95. This is within the projected figure of
12, 259 (1999/00) at the time of appraisal. The ratio of males to females is 44:56. The
under-achievement of boys is of some concern considering that girls comprise 48% of the primary
school population The building blocks for improving the effectiveness of the system have been
laid through inter alia enhanced school management and teacher training, an improved system
for testing and measurement, and revised, more appropriate curricula. It would be important to
bolster and sustain these in order to achieve the development objective of increasing the
availability of the requisite manpower for economic and social change.
There also has been a steady movement towards improved efficiency within the culture of the
Ministry, and a greater awareness nationally regarding the issues which impinge on the quality of
education, and the strategies to address these. Targets for teacher/student ratios were met for the
secondary level moving from 1:17.5 (1994.95) to 1:20 in 2000/01. At the primary level the
adjustment was from 1:27 (1994/95) to 1:28 in 2000/01. This figure is short of the 1:30 target
for the primary level. The shortfall is due to the larger than expected reduction in the primary
school population. (The enrollment in 1999/00 was 28,975 whereas the project at the time of
appraisal was 30,000) . A revised Education Act (#41 of 1999) undergirds the reform process,
and government and public commitment to education remains high. Thus the project has been
having a positive impact on the education system, which, with due attention and continued
support, should lead to the desired improvement in the country's human resources.
Despite the generally slow start of the project, and protracted implementation delays in some
sub-components, the project was implemented with only a four month extension to allow for the
delivery of remaining books and computer equipment. This achievement attests to the high
commitment of the government. Besides the more tangible outputs- more trained teaching and
managerial staff, increased supplies of equipment and teaching materials, revised curricula, and
additional school places - considerable leaming has taken place within the PMU and MOE as a
whole, especially in the area of communication within MOE, with partners and the general public.
This augurs well for the next stages of the reform effort.
Several areas crucial to sustainability will require greater focus. They include enhancing research
capabilities to carefully analyze inter alia the impact of interventions on student learning, and
monitor the allocation of resources; the implementation of a maintenance action plan based on a
clearly articulated policy; development and implementation of policy with respect to textbook
publishing and procurement, and implementation of mechanisms to utilize the recommendations of
the various consultants, appropriately deploy trained staff, and retain their services in the system,
and provide for continued professional development of all staff.
-4 -



4 2 Outputs by components
Sector Planning and Institutional Strengthening
The impact of BERP is evident in this area. A re-structured Ministry, based on agreements
reached during negotiations and recommendations from the Management Audit, have served to
provide a firm foundation and direction for enhancing the management of MOE in key areas of
planning, data management project planning and management, and general administration. The
Corporate Planning Unit, (CPU) (formerly Education Planning and Development Office) headed
by the Deputy Chief Education Officer, has responsibility for planning, collection and analysis of
data, management infornation systems and project preparation and management.  The
decentralization process has commenced, and the adjustment of teacher! student ratios in
accordance with government policy was implemented in September 1999. As discussed below,
there is need to monitor the impact of these policies, and to ensure that the intended objectives are
realized.
Planning
A comprehensive long term education sector plan has been prepared; two new projects emanating
from this document have been approved and a third is currently being prepared. The planning
process was highly participatory involving extensive national consultation which served to provide
greater understanding of the education reform process. Two planners, one at the post graduate
diploma level, the other at the Masters level, have been trained ( 2 staff years) and are assigned to
the CPU. Initial expert services in planning fell short of MOE's expectations, and fiurther
assistance was provided  by  the Department for International Development (DFID).
Inappropriate selection plus MOE's limited technical capacity to supervise the consultant
adequately, and lack of counterparts may have contributed to under performance.  This
experience underscores the importance of proper selection, appropriate scheduling of consultants
to ensure availability of counterparts, and the arranging for adequate technical supervision.
Given the small MOE staff and their multi-functional status, MOE might need to establish small
teams of qualified persons drawn from both within the public and private sector, as appropriate, to
assist in supervising consultants.
A total of seven policy related studies were completed. These were generally weak. MOE did
not give sufficient attention to this subcomponent nor were there adequate inputs from the
project, although the research capacity was recognized to be minimal. MOE delayed in hiring a
research officer to coordinate activities and there was difficulty in finding persons locally to carry
out the studies. Furthermore, the policies and processes for conducting research were not clearly
articulated. This testifies to the absence of a culture of research and investigation within MOE.
Discussions have recently been held with the SALCC with a view to establishing mechanisms for
MOE to be supported by SALCC in its research undertakings. The project might have provided
for the establishment of the research unit and supported the linkages with SALCC and other
appropriate institutions both regionally and internationally. Follow-on projects supported by
World Bank and other donor agencies should assist MOE in addressing this weakness.
- 5-



Data Management
Laudable strides have been made in the area of data management. With the assistance of a
consultant, MOE has established a sound data base system, and has been producing a
comprehensive annual Statistical Digest.  Capacity has improved with the training of two
statisticians, one at the Masters level, the other a two month computer course. The latter is no
longer employed at MOE. Retention of staff with scarce skills such as computer technology and
statistics may well be challenge to MOE. With the assistance of the OECS Education Reform
Unit (OERU) a more comprehensive Education Management Information System is being
established and is in a pilot phase involving 15 schools. The enhancement of data management
capabilities can be attributed, in part, to the fact that the expert was able to work closely with the
counterpart statistician who had already been trained.
General Administration
An audit of MOE was undertaken and has been used to guide organizational changes being made.
Also the professional development of staff is expected to yield improvements in administration.
Two senior staff of MOE have benefited from a study tour to review reform processes in
Australia, New Zealand and Singapore and it is expected that the lessons learnt would be shared
within MOE. Four persons successfully completed training in administration, one of them in the
area of financial management. The latter is no longer at MOE; having been deemed unsuitable for
the position of internal auditoT. There is clearly need to select fellows carefully. A financial
analyst was hired subsequently. One of the important functions would be regular assessment of
resource allocation and impact. This important exercise had not yet commenced when the project
closed
The accounting department has been re-structured to facilitate more effective financial
management. Close attention should be given to monitoring the allocation of resources during the
operational phase to ensure that adequate funds are channeled into interventions for improving
quality. Approximately 180 principals and senior teachers are in the process of completing a one
year part-time management training program aimed at promoting improved school management.
MOE has reported positive impact, and studies are underway to assess this. There would be need
to undertake a thorough assessment within a year of completion of the program, and periodically
thereafter.
Pro'ject Management
An important achievement is that MOE can now boast of a fully functional permanent sub-unit
within the CPU with personnel trained in project management, procurement and financial
management. The fact that the project has been satisfactorily implemented, despite considerable
teething problems, bears testimony to the fairly rapid learning and commitment of the team. A
delay in the hiring of a project management consultant at the inception, and uncertainties
regarding the status of staff assigned to the unit contributed to some of the early project
management difficulties. Furthermore, inadequacies in the functioning of the Project Advisory
Committee (PAC), and a delay in establishing communication channels between PMU and the rest
- 6 -



of MOE led to periods of challenge, as the embryonic PMU experienced isolation and at the same
time appeared to wield authority by virtue of the resources it controlled. Changes in personnel
(project manager, and procurement officer) also accounted for some implementation difficulties in
procurement, record keeping and general management. Throughout the life of the project, despite
the under staffing in accounting, financial management was highly satisfactory, to the extent that it
provided technical assistance in project accounting and management to other regional projects
Limited understanding of project management on the part of beneficiary units, and their respective
roles in facilitating implementation, led to some misunderstanding between the PMU and some of
their clients. With the appointment of the Deputy Chief Education Officer with responsibility for
Corporate planning, and a concerted effort to improve communication and foster ownership of
the project, problems were greatly reduced. Also the project manager and officers responsible for
procurement received formal training for their respective roles within the final year of the project.
It is evident that timeliness of expert services as well as inclusion of communication issues in
project launch workshops could have alleviated the difficulties encountered in establishing PMU
within MOE. Also adequate arrangements for staff changes within the PMU should have been
put in place. Nonetheless, project management capacity has been greatly enhanced   MOE has
adopted the principles of procurement utilized in BERP, and has established a system to integrate
financial management of projects into the wider accounting system of MOE. With assistance
from PMU, MOE has designed a second project funded by CDB, a third funded by the European
Union and is in the process of preparing a fourth with a view to seeking World Bank funding.
However, MOE will need to augment staff in the PMU, and continuously upgrade staff especially
in procurement and management, if it is to effectively manage new extemally funded projects.
Qualitative Improvement
In the final analysis, the success of an education system rests on the quality of educational services
delivered and is evidenced in the performance of students. The project has served to address
several of the shortcomings identified during appraisal; and while institutional capacity has been
enhanced, it is too early to determine the impact on student learning. Performnance at both the
Common Entrance and CXC levels remain unsatisfactory with the perfonnance of boys being
below that of girls.  This does not detract from  project interventions, since these were
implemented too late to have a noticeable effect. It would be important for MOE to use the
results of recently introduced standardized tests as well as from Common Entrance Examinations
(CEE) and CXC to develop programs to address identified weaknesses. GOSL's budgetary
support for continued professional developmenit of teachers, and the necessary reform
interventions is critical.
Teacher Training
The project contributed to the upgrading and expansion of teacher training in core subject areas,
however, the impact of this training on teaching and leaming in the schools has not been assessed
yet. Three teacher trainers completed programs leading to the Masters degree in Science,
mathematics and social studies. A fourth fellowship which was provided in language arts was not
undertaken. Seventeen persons received fellowships to pursue undergraduate training (10 in
mathematics, 3, general science, 2, biology, I chemistry and I environmental science). This
- 7 -



under-graduate training sub-component was funded by CDB   Provision was made for 8-12
fellowships; however, MOE found it possible to award fellowships to persons who had already
commenced the program, thus the reduction in the duration allowed for the financing of 5
fellowships in excess of the target. Difficulties in recruiting suitably qualified persons in the area
of physics were encountered. Eleven of the fifteen retumed fellows are teaching at secondary
schools, three of whom are undergoing teacher training on a part time basis. Two persons will
complete their undergraduate training in 2001 and should be assigned to schools in September
2001. Three fellows are pursuing graduate studies and one has been transferred from the
classroom on medical grounds Given the paucity of persons trained in mathematics and science
and the demand for these skills outside the teaching profession, there is a likelihood of high
attrition. Strategies need to be put in place to retain staff.
Approximately 700 teachers received in service training at summer workshops. This is 175 more
than had been projected. The course content was designed to address common problems in the
classroom A system for professional development can be put in place at the district level.
Curriculum Development
Project outputs in the area of curriculum development and production have been satisfactory, and
as in other quality enhancement sub-components, greater focus must now be on outcomes. With
the assistance of a curriculum expert, the Curriculum and Materials Development Unit (CAMDU)
revised the curricula for Grades K - 6. These are currently being field tested. There was some
delay in commencing the pilot test since their teachers had expressed concem regarding the
inclusion of the content of the new curricula in the Minimum Standards Tests. It highlights the
degree to which tests drive the teaching process. Staff were upgraded with three curriculum
officers trained at the Masters level in Science, Mathematics and Social Studies The fellowship
in language arts was converted to one in instructional design at the request of MOE; however, it
was not awarded.   During the last two years of project implementation, there was much
discussion regarding whether the interests of MOE, with respect to curriculum development and
production of materials, was best served by CAMDU as presently organized. This situation has
not yet been resolved and has a negative effect on the morale of CAMDU staff MOE needs to
carefully consider the organizational arrangements required not only to optimize the available
resources within CAMDU but also to create the necessary synergy with staff involved in teacher
training, testing and measurement and school supervision.
Schools have benefited from an increase in teaching and learning materials. All 84 primary
schools have the necessary science kits to teach the revised curriculum. The 44 new kits (one
complimentary) were supplied to 44 primary schools to complement earlier provisions made by
UNESCO to 40 other schools. Also supplementary materials to upgrade the kits procured with
UNESCO funds were provided. Eight secondary schools benefited from science equipment and
supplies, and all schools have acquired sets of reference books.  The supply of educational
materials and equipment has served to alleviate previously identified deficiencies. There is need to
monitor the use of these materials, and to continue to identify curricula, materials, and appropriate
teaching strategies to address the needs of under-performing students, in particular those of
males
-B8-



Computer laboratories were established at Castries Comprehensive, Corinth and Anse Ger
Secondary Schools. The resource center at Babonneau Secondary has also been equipped with
computers.  fn accordance with the agreement, an evaluation of the impact of computer
laboratories was completed. End users have been generally satisfied with both the design of
facilities and the hardware; however, all schools noted that the facilities only cater for a small
percentage of the student body and there is a need for computer assisted learning software.
In an effort to enhance the capacity to produce materials, one person was trained in art editing
and publishing; and another in general editing and publishing. They have produced materials
which are being piloted and they are also involved in training at SALCC. Expert services to assist
CAMDU in formulating policy on production and preparation of educational materials were not
utilized since MOE experienced difficulty in recruiting suitably qualified consultants. Nonetheless,
a draft publishing policy to guide the operations of the publishing unit was produced. A Textbook
Committee was convened but their report was not available before the project closing date.
Educational Testing and Measurement (ETX)
MOE now has an improved capacity to develop and administer standardized tests at critical
stages. New tests for Grade 2 (formerly Stage 3), Grade 4 (formerly Standard 2) and Grade 9
(formerly Form 3) have been developed and piloted. This will enable MOE to monitor outcomes
and diagnose learning deficiencies at an earlier stage at both the primary and secondary levels. An
expert conducted an assessment of the Standard 2 Minimum Standards Test and
recommendations are being implemented. The new tests have served to sensitize not only
education officials but the public in general regarding issues in testing.  In the wake of
considerable public concern regarding test results, MOE organized various workshops to train
teachers on test interpretation, and arranged for parents and guardians to discuss performance
issues. Effort is also being made to identify weak students and to determine the contributing
factors. Remedial programs are being developed at the level of the school. There is need for
continued, concerted effort in the area of diagnosis and effecting remedial measures, particularly
in light of the apparent decline over the years in performnance on the (CEE).
One fellow was trained to the Masters degree level in measurement and testing and undertook an
attachment at the Caribbean Examinations Council. In addition, two other members of staff of
ETX participated in a study tour, and another participated in a workshop on dyslexia Staff have
been applying their skills effectively within the unit. There is a plan to provide further training of
teachers in item writing and analysis, and the importance of transparency.
School Supervision
The project achieved its capacity building objectives in this area; however, there is need to ensure
that supervisory services are utilized to improve learning outcomes. Measures are being put in
place to decentralize and to  strengthen school management. In order to facilitate the
decentralization policy, a new district education office was constructed at Vieux Fort. At project
end, it was unoccupied due to delays in the installation of utilities. Choiseul DEO was
-9-



rehabilitated and expanded. Micoud and Castries DEOs were also refurbished. Although the
decentralization process is underway, there are no clear policies for the functioning of the DEOS
and the Teacher Resource Centers Staffing, hours of operation to facilitate maximum use, and
activities to be undertaken, need to be established. The cost of operation and the impact on the
quality of education delivered must also be carefully monitored.
MOE trained three persons at the post graduate level in the area of school supervision, one being
in the area of school social work. As noted above, school principals and senior teachers are being
trained in school management. Expert services in the area of school performance assessment
were provided. An instrument to assess performance in schools is being designed.
Expansion of Access
The aim was to increase access at the secondary level, and targets were satisfactorily achieved as
per the SAR. Four of the nineteen secondary schools operating, were constructed, furnished and
equipped- one a replacement school - Soufriere Comprehensive - and three new schools (Laborie,
Babonneau and Anse Ger), in previously under- served areas are in operation. In addition,
nineteen primary schools primary were rehabilitated. The total capacity at the 4 new schools is
2345. Of this 1675 are additional places. A total of 2107 students are enrolled (2000/01), 1194
(56%) are female. Several delays were experienced. For example, with Babonneau there was a
delay of 3 years from the time the land was acquired in 1995 to the start up of construction
December 1998. This delay contributed to substantial cost overruns.
While, in general, the schools have been deemed acceptable to the end-users, it was noted that
capacity and design are issues of some concern. The student enrollment of Anse Ger (491) is
already close to capacity (525) although there are no Fifth Formers. The situation will become
more problematic with the 2001/02 intake. Classrooms are considered too small to comfortably
accommodate 35 children, the average class size. Principals stressed the need to provide a more
varied curricula, and indicated there is high demand for arts and craft, technical drawing, building
technology, drama, music etc., and there is difficulty teaching these subjects given the present size
and layout of classrooms. For example, in one school - Soufriere Comprehensive, a single
classroom was provided for the teaching of both building technology and technical drawing. The
spatial requirements for these subjects differ, thus the school has found it inconvenient to use the
room  for both subjects as envisaged.  Technical drawing classes are now held in regular
classrooms.
Some sites (Soufriere and Babonneau ) offer little space for expansion. Principals all indicated the
need for a large multi-purpose room for general assembly and staging of events. This issue had
been raised during appraisal; however, these facilities were not included in the scope of works
No space is available at the Soufriere Secondary School for extension of the limited playing field.
Greater consideration ought to have been given to the cost, duration and phasing of works
external to the project sites These works include alignment of access road, layby and connection
of existing utilities. Topographical surveys and boundary surveys of project sites in most cases
revealed inaccuracies once the sites were finally cleared and checked. Re-location of buildings,
drainage structures and retaining walls were necessary at most sites at the start of the construction
- 10 -



phase causing significant delay and concomitant cost over-run.
These factors all point to the importance of detailed preparation for civil works to include
feasibility studies, architectural drawings based on actual building sites, removal of encumbrances,
and intensive consultation with end users to ensure that designs match identified needs. It is fully
recognized that these considerations must be undertaken within the context of cost-effectiveness.
Students at the new schools are primarily those who obtained low scores on the CEE since
parents and children continue to opt for the more established schools, Given the generally low
performance on the CEE, and the fact that with the additional secondary places, some students
assigned to secondary schools have not attained minimum scores, there is need to ensure that the
curricula at all schools cater to the learning needs of all students. Furthermore, MOE must assign
high quality teaching staff and management to the new schools as well as students of mixed
abilities to avoid having these schools stygmatized as low performing schools.
Maintenance
Measures to protect the investment in plant and equipment have not yet been satisfactorily
established. The new schools all appeared to be in good order; however, some of the rehabilitated
schools showed evidence of inadequate maintenance of buildings and grounds. A review carried
out in St. Lucia as part of a CDB financed regional study on maintenance, highlighted an absence
of clear procedures for repair, rehabilitation and assessment of the work carried out. Principals
do not systematically record requests for or responses to school maintenance needs. The state of
the schools' premises seems to be a factor of the school management. It is important that a
culture of maintenance be inculcated in students and the community in general to avoid littering,
defacement of school property or other acts of vandalism. MOE has created a position of
Director of Works who was expected to guide the development of the maintenance policy and
plan; however, the position had not been filled by the closing date. In October 2000, maintenance
workshops were held at which a draft policy prepared by consultants was reviewed. Maintenance
problems were discussed with principals, ministry officials including staff of the Buildings and
Maintenance Unit with a view to finding solutions. MOE must clearly articulate its policy on
maintenance and develop strategies to address the issues identified, to include the development of
a plan of action to ensure all school premises are appropriate for learning.
4 3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of r eturn
N. A
4 4 Financial rate of return
N. A
4 5 Invsitutional developntent impact
The technical assistance component, particularly in the form of fellowships, has served to enhance
the capacity of MOE most noticeably in sector planning, testing and measurement, data
management and project design and management. Evidence of achievements have been detailed
in 4.1 and 4.2. These include a comprehensive sector plan, Annual Statistical Digests, new
standardized tests, and design of new projects. The re-structuring of MOE and improvements in
- 11 -



communication have contributed to greater cohesiveness As outlined above, there is need to
continue to develop research capacity to inform policy decisions, improve financial analysis and
management and build on the newly acquired project management.skills The decision to use
World Bank guidelines for procurement for all MOE goods and services, the hiring of a financial
analyst, and the modifications to the Accounts Department all signal MOE's concern for
improving efficiency.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5 1 Faclors outside the control of government or implementing agency
Difficulty was encountered in finding suitable consultants in the area of policy development for
the production and procurement of educational materials, as well as suppliers for publishing
equipment through international shopping. The latter might have been due to the relatively small
quantity of equipment being procured.
5 2 Factors generallv sttbject to government control
There were regular delays in the provision of counterpart funding. This was attributed to the
difficulties encountered by the Treasury in meeting the high cost over-runs. Infrequent meetings
of the Project Advisory Committee (PAC) (comprising senior representatives of Ministries of
Finance, Planning, MOE and Department of Training), to discuss implementation issues, and
failure to promote timely action on the part of facilitating ministries contributed to difficulties
experienced. Some of the areas where the PAC could have given support included expediting
required action on the part of other ministries and agencies involved in providing access roads,
approval of sanitary works, clearing building sites of encumbrances, provision of counterpart
funds; and assisting in publicizing the objectives and activities of the project. The high turnover of
members of the PAC and the fact that representation was not always at a senior level made its
impact virtually negligible.
5 3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
A protracted delay in appointing a DCEO to direct the newly established units, and limited
involvement of senior MOE officials in the work of the PMU contributed to communication and
implementation difficulties in the early years of the project. Particularly in a project where
innovation and change were fundamental characteristics, a communication strategy and strong
leadership from the management of MOE were critical. The project was generally viewed as the
business of PMU and not MOE as a whole. In the last two to three years of the project, there has
been a much better understanding of the project and increased ownership at all levels within the
Ministry  A MOE newsletter, the highly participatory process in developing the long term
education plan, and public statements by senior officials of MOE have served to contribute to
greatly enhanced cooperation.
Implementation was also affected by changes in project staff. Following the project manager's
proceeding on study leave, the procurement officer assumed the responsibility for project
management but was only able to undertake project management training at the very end of the
project For eighteen months, both project management and procurement functions were carried
out by one person.  The newly recruited procurement officer only received training six months
before the end of the project, and the project manager in the last month. General project
management and procurement were affected for that period. A project management consultant
- 12 -



was recruited following the change in project management, and while this proved useful during
this period of transition, the purpose of the consultancy services was to assist in establishing the
PMU and providing the necessary advice which might have averted the initial start up problems
5 4 Costs andfinancing
The total project cost was estimated at US$ 12.838 million. The foreign exchange component
was US$8.956 including contributions from CDB. The IBRD Loan amount US$3.364 million
equivalent and the IDA Credit amount was SDR 2.3 million (US$3.364 million equivalent).
Disbursements as of April 25, 2001 were as follows: Loan: US$3.209 million and Credit:
US$3.168 million.   Disbursements were understandably slow in the first two years given the
implementation difficulties and slow start up. The unexpended balances by category are as
follows:
By Loan  .     _   _                         _  By Credit   I
Ctgory    Ctegoty Descrptlon   Undsb USD   Dlsb VSD  Category  Ct*ory D.seriptIon   UndIsb USD  Dib USD
1-A    CW-CONSTRUC'N&REFURB   -1 ,046,675 t   2,177,223.24 _  -A    CW-CONSTRUCINI&REFURS  637,284.68  535,715.32
i-B    CW-REHAB.& REPAIR   -117.505.93  259,831.67  1-8    CW-REHAA.& REPAIR  665,834 86   10,16514
2-A    GDS EXC BASIC TEXT8K  803,369.22  177,770.14  2-A  GDS EXC BASIC TEXT8K  -829,252.15  1,691,252.1S
2-B    GDS BASIC TEXT8KS     38,23290.0    0   2-8    GD5 BASIC TEXT8KS      .58.760.40   92,760.40
3-A   CONS. SERV.            71,171.83  210.924.15  3-A  CONS. SERV.         142,322.55  165,677.45
3-B    FELLOWSHIPS&STUrY TR  -24122.8   313,810.80  3-5    FELLOWSHIPS & STUDY  -54,775.57  346,275.57
SA-A  INIT.DEP.S250,000      33.388.2  -630.84 _ SA-B   SPECIAL ACCOUNT      -98,186.55   98,188.55
UNALL  UNALLOCATED          242,141.70     0 = UNALL   UNALLOCATED           245,500.00     0
.   Totals (for ail 8 Catogores)  -0.01  3,188,729.16  I_  Totls (for al 8 catigolis)  154,96A.42  3,209.034.56
Cost over runs are shown in the access to education component and are primarily due to some
under estimation of civil works, increased costs due to late start-up. Preliminary drawings were
not based on actual building sites.
6. Sustainability
6 1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Several factors suggest the likelihood that GOSL will maintain and build on the achievements of
the project. They include : (i) the continued high commitment of GOSL as evidenced in its
contribution to the education sector; (ii) a revised Education Act to create a more enabling
environment; (iii) GOSL's efforts to improve efficiency through hiring of a financial analyst to
assist in the analysis of its resources, adjusting student/teacher ratios in order to realize savings
which could be allocated to non-salary inputs such as instructional materials, re-structuring of
MOE to improve the efficiency and effectiveness (establishment of Corporate Planning Unit,
expansion of DEOS ); and (iv) enhanced capacity at MOE especially in the areas of planning,
testing and measurement, data management and project planning and management.
It is too early to assess whether efforts at improving efficiency or effectiveness are achieving the
desired  effect.   MOE  will need  to  carefully  monitor the  impact of the  adjustment of
teacher-student ratios on student learning, and determine whether MOE has realized any savings.
It would be important for GOSL to ensure that these "savings" are in fact channeled into
interventions for improving  quality and  assuring  sustainability.   Similarly, the impact of
interventions aimed at improving quality, and student performance need to be carefully monitored
- 13-



during the operations phase. Mechanisms to undertake this work have not been fully established;
however, MOE is mindftul of the importance of doing so.
6 2 Tiransition arrangement to regular operations
The organizational changes and increases in personnel effected are accepted as permanent
changes. They were financed by GOSL during implementation as part of the complement of
MOE staff. The additional expenditure of the new schools are also included in the budget. It is
important that previously neglected areas such as professional development, maintenance,
provision of educational materials be included in the budget 2001/02.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7 1 Lending
The Bank's performance was satisfactory with considerable attention being given to project
preparation and appraisal In response to the request by GOSL for assistance in addressing its
human resource deficiencies, a priority area identified in the CAS and PSIP, Policy and Human
Resource Development funds from the Government of Japan were used to finance studies on
critical sector issues Studies were conducted by a team of international consultants, and local
counterparts Findings informed project design.
The SAR noted that lessons learnt from education projects in the Caribbean region namely the
need to (a) "link project objectives to the broader sector and macro policy objectives to enhance
overall commitment to, and hence success in execution of, the project; (b) carefully evaluate local
procurement and project implementation capacities to ensure that adequate and timely
institutional support is available for the smooth operation of the project; (c) ensure on an annual
basis that Government budgets provide the requisite project financing so that the planned pace
and breadth of project activities can be sustained, and the project completed according to
schedule; (d) involve all major stakeholders in an education reform process (i.e the Ministry staff,
principals, teachers and teachers unions, and parents and community groups) from the early stages
of project design; and (e) relatedly, ensure that the policy environment within which the project
will operate is supportive of project objectives and enables conduct of the needed systemic and
institutional reforms; were also taken into account. The Bank preparation team together with a
team from the CDB, co-financiers, had dialogue with the local preparation team headed by the
Permanent Secretary, other MOE officials, representatives of teachers unions, and stakeholders
on issues and priorities, and strategies for addressing them. The Bank team were cognizant of the
major risks: inadequate institutional capacity to carry out the education reform process and the
PMU problems in meeting the administrative demands presented by heavy front loading of
implementation over the first two years, given limited Bank project execution experience.
Amongst the measures put in place in order to reduce anticipated difficulties were the
development of prototype designs for the schools, preparation of preliminary drawings, provision
of expert services for procurement, training of the procurement officer, and preparation of
specification lists for goods as well as bidding documents for civil works and goods aimed at
expediting the procurement process. No procurement plan was stipulated in the SAR. Despite
the fact that these precautions were taken, difficulties ensued since preliminary drawings were
undertaken before site selection and costs were underestimated. Preliminary work on item
- 14-



specification for goods proved unsatisfactory and considerable time was spent by PMU on this
exercise.
The Bank team did not adequately assess the issues of poverty reduction during preparation nor
advise on incorporating strategies to monitor and address this issue. Similarly, the matter of
gender disparities in performance, although identified as a growing problem, was not addressed.
As a result indicators to monitor these critical aspects of development were not included.
The project would have benefitted from the inclusion of a logical framework, and procurement
and comprehensive procurement and implementation plans to guide implementation.
Furthermore, impact assessment indicators ought to have been detailed during appraisal.
No economic analysis was included in the SAR.
7 2 Supervision
Performance was satisfactory. Project Supervision Reports (PSR) and Aide memoires provided
detailed information on implementation progress. Regular supervision missions were undertaken
in conjunction with a team from CDB. Some of the problems identified particularly in the initial
years of implementation included lack of ownership of the project; communication difficulties
within MOE; weak implementation capacity especially with respect to procurement; delays in
appointing staff such as the DCEO, financial analyst and researcher. There were protracted
delays with respect to site selection and preparation for construction.
Missions urged MOE to give greater attention to efficiency such as the adjustment of
teacher-student ratios and to put in place measures to ensure sustainability such as the
development of the maintenance policy and plan, and the establishment of a more effective system
for financial analysis and management. MOE was also urged to ensure adequate staffing of the
PMU.
There were some difficulties with procurement, largely attributed to the inexperience of the
borrower and staff changes as noted in paragraph 5.3. The Bank provided consistent support in
the preparation of bid documents and other procurement activities. Additional training was
provided when the new procurement officer was finally hired in the fourth year of the project. An
ex post review was undertaken in the fourth year of project implementation, and opportunity was
taken to hold a workshop to increase the awareness of procurement issues to a wider cross
section of MOE staff. However, earlier support in the area of procurement planning, and also to
ensure a greater understanding of the procurement process among beneficiary units, might have
averted some of the procurement difficulties experienced by the PMU. Financial management
monitoring was consistently comprehensive.
Disbursements were generally efficient, except for the few applications for direct payments
Payments sometimes reached suppliers long after authorization had been issued, and in two cases
(withdrawal applications 17 and 18) payments were wrongly routed. St. Lucia does not have
telex testing agreements, hence payments could not be made directly. There is need for the Bank
and the borrower to review the bottlenecks in communication facilities, with a view to expediting
payments to suppliers in any follow-on projects.
- 15 -



7 3 Overall Batik perfolrmance
The Bank's overall performance has been satisfactory, and important lessons have been learnt
with respect to addressing the needs of inexperienced clients. For example, while considerable
efforts were made to address identified areas of weakness, there was need to promote a higher
degree of involvement of the implementers of the project beginning at the preparatory phase. Only
a small cadre of primarily managerial staff from MOE were involved during preparation and
appraisal. Greater consideration should have been given to ensuring that implementation
schedules and interventions were in accord with institutional capabilities.
Borrower
7 4 Preparation
Although there was general awareness of the project among staff of the MOE, involvement in
preparatory activities and understanding of the project was limited to a small number of senior
level and managerial staff. GOSL participated in the preparatory work through provision of
counterpart staff for the conduct of sector studies Reports were made available and presented to
MOE staff and representatives of stakeholders; however, there was insufficient analysis and
discussion of the studies on the part of MOE, and the relevance of the findings for project design.
This shortcoming was due to the limited numbers of staff available within MOE for this type of
developmental exercise. Nonetheless, GOSL was clear on its objectives and measures to achieve
these A draft Education Strategy letter was presented by MOE at negotiations outlining its
priorities
7 5 Government implementation peifornmance
Government commitment to the objectives of the project was high, although as noted above there
were delays in appointing staff. GOSL sought to provide an enabling environment leading to a
revision of the Education Act. At times there were delays in providing counterpart funds.
7 6 Implementing Agency
The PMU demonstrated high commitment to implementing the project in accordance with the
Agreement. Difficulties encountered were primarily due to inexperience and initial weak capacity.
Procurement
Inadequate staffing during the protracted period that the procurement officer performed dual
functions ( project manager and procurement officer), as well as limited knowledge of World
Bank procedures adversely affected procurement implementation particularly in terms of activity
planning and competent follow-up Furthermore, inadequate communication between the PMU
and end users regarding the desired type of goods, prior to actual bid preparation, sometimes led
to changes in technical specifications during the evaluation process. MOE needs to recognize that
such actions can raise issues of transparency and may result in higher costs. It is therefore
important that all end users and agencies which facilitate the procurement process gain an
understanding of the process and the rationale for the various procedures The thresholds
established in the Loan Agreement were the standards used for OECS member states, and should
be maintained until the capacity in procurement planning and management is enhanced.
Financial Management
- 16-



Financial Management improved throughout the implementation period, and is evidenced not
only in the generally high quality of financial reporting and management of project resources, but
also through the fact that the reporting and management has served as a model to other OECS
projects Notwithstanding, the PMU experienced difficulty in obtaining adequate counterpart
funds in a timely manner throughout the life of the project. The problem can be traced to
inadequate commrunication, and inconsistent reporting between the MOE and Ministry of Finance
and Planning, attributed to weak financial management within the MOE . The result was delay in
the transfer of counterpart funds required for the implementation of the project, and contributed
to the lack of adequate appropriation of funds in the annual capital budgets. The PMU, with
additional staff, could have achieved more in the area of financial management. In accordance
with the Loan Agreement the PMU employed an accountant; however, the Bank subsequently
recommended an assistant be added to undertake some of the more routine work. One was
assigned , but only for a brief period. Thus the project accountant was occupied with the daily
operations of the project, and could not devote the necessary time to follow-up on issues such as
counterpart financing, and piloting a transition to the Bank's LACI method of disbursements.
In the interest of internal controls (transparency, segregation of duties), and also to meet the
objectives of sustainability of best practices, capacity building and knowledge sharing, it is
important that the MOE recognize the importance that the addition of an assistant accountant can
provide to the overall efficiency of implementation.
Audits
The audits required under the Loan Agreement have been carried out by the Auditor General's
Office, and have been of a consistent high quality. Generally, the reports have been delivered to
the Bank on a timely basis and have provided Bank teams with valuable insight and analysis of
the financial aspects and implementation of the project.
7 7 Overall Borrower performance-
The Borrower's performance has been satisfactory and showed steady improvement over the life
of the project.
8. Lessons Learned
During preparation to proiect appraisal
1.It is important that all persons who are expected to implement the project participate in the
analysis of issues, and the design of the project. Project preparation workshops can be used to
orient inexperienced clients to the exigencies of project preparation and implementation.
Involvement must go beyond information sharing.
2. Design of schools should be based on the actual building sites selected; and functions must be
discussed with end users to ensure that the curricula can be effectively delivered, and cost
estimates are realistic.
3. Projects with a heavy organizational change component should include a communication and
change management strategy so that all stakeholders are fully aware of the objectives, strategies
and implications.
- 17-



4 Objectives such as gender equity and poverty reduction require specific measures to ensure their
realization.
5 Implementation and disbursement schedules ought to take into account the institutional
capabilities of the implementing agency as well as other facilitating agencies involved in
implementation.
6. Monitoring and impact indicators must be clearly articulated prior to implementation, and given
emphasis throughtout implementation.
7 Logical framework, procurement plans, implementation schedules are essential tools for the
preparation and monitoring of projects and should be included in project documents.
8. Strategies to move from the project phase to the operational should be spelt out in the SAR.
During project implementation
I.Units involved in project implementation should be staffed with trained personnel throughout
the life of the project, particularly in critical areas such as procurement. Where staff changes are
unavoidable, measures should be taken to allow for a smooth transition.
2.Management of the implementing agency and Project Advisory Committees must provide the
necessary direction and support to ensure the success of the project.
3. In order to derive the optimum benefit from expert services, mechanisms must be put in place
to ensure that terms of reference for such experts address the identified needs, and that there is
adequate technical supervision of consultants. Counterpart staff should be in place to facilitate
the transfer of knowledge.
4 Fellows must be selected carefully and arrangements made for trained personnel to be deployed
appropriately to allow for transfer of knowledge and application of skills.
5 Attention must always be given to ensuring that studies, formulation of policies, systems for
monitoring efficiency and effectiveness are implemented in a timely manner.
6. Bank supervision missions should seek to include training sessions and support in areas where
there is persistent weakness e.g procurement and financial management, particularly in the initial
years of implementation  Such training would build on that provided during project launch
workshops.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowver/inmplementing agency
The Basic Education Reform Project has made a significant contribution to the goals of
undertaking reform in education in St. Lucia, achieving increased efficiency and effectiveness of
the system and enhancing the quality of access to educational opportunities. In spite of the slow
start to implementation most of the planned outputs were realised and the immediate project
objectives were achieved. The goal of strengthening the planning and institutional capacity to
guide the long-term sector plan was achieved through the completion of an Education Sector
Development Plan, the training of fellows in critical areas such as project management, statistics,
education planning and educational administration, and the establishment of a project management
and data management capabilities. The project supported several successful measures to address
the sector-wide qualitative problems Among these were the training of several hundred teachers
at various levels in core subject areas, the revision of primary curriculum, the training of persons
- 18-



in curriculum and materials development, the provision of materials, supplies and equipment for
the teaching leamning process and the enhancement of the physical and human resource capabilities
to monitor and evaluate the performance of students. Measures were put in place to improve the
supervision of leaming and to offer a more decentralised service to schools.  Through the
creation of 1,725 additional secondary school places access to educational opportunities was
improved. Additionally, access to primary school was enhanced through undertaking major
rehabilitation works at nineteen schools. This involved the construction of new toilet blocks, new
roofs, ceilings, floors and stair cases, and the paving of playgrounds. The result was an overall
improvement in the primary infrastructure and a more conducive teaching and learning
environment at that level.
The Project was generally executed with economy and efficiency and, with very few exceptions,
within the terms and conditions of the respective Loan and Credit Agreements. This was partly
due to the valuable support given by World Bank and CDB supervision staff but equally
importantly to the hard work of a team of dedicated PMU staff. This is evidenced, for example, by
the complementary Project audit reports and the excellent financial management executed
throughout implementation. The problems experienced with timely completion may have been due
to low thresholds set for Bank prior review and for applying ICB procurement methods, and poor
procurement planning.  In addition, the relatively complex nature of the project and the
inexperience of the implementing unit contributed to a slow start to implementation with the result
that substantial amounts of project funds were committed for extended periods but not utilised.
Under those circumstances the decision to so heavily front load the activities was ill advised. The
actual disbursement schedule translated to the normal S-shaped curve expected of most projects.
Actual disbursement by the respective financiers - the World Bank, the CDB and GOSL - were
93%, 99% and 122%. The higher rates of financing realised by the CDB and by GOSL were due
to the increased costs of the civil works component. Those were the result of unanticipated
physical changes to building designs and to various problems related to building sites. Overall,
GOSL contribution to the Project was in fact much higher than official reports show as several
cost elements that were financed by the borrower were not accounted for in the project financing
schedules.
Although the project has ended, some areas of underachievement that have important implications
for the successful attainment of the desired reforms in education continue to be a source of
concern to Government. These are: a) the difficulty in adjusting the pupil to teacher ratios to
more efficient levels; b) the slow pace of resource reallocation to achieve higher resource levels to
non-salary activities; c) the absence of a maintenance policy and plan; and d) the failure to
produce a textbook publishing and procurement policy. Without these in place the sustainability
of the gains achieved under the project could be compromised. The MOE proposes to continue its
efforts beyond this Project to correct those deficiencies.
Several very important lessons learned from this Project are being applied to follow-on projects
currently being undertaken by the Ministry of Education. Notable among these is the wide-spread
consultation with beneficiaries and sub-sector implementing units at the design phases and a
system of making more accurate cost estimates for civil works activities on the basis of feasibility
studies on actual sites. Other lessons for future projects include the need to be more selective and
-19-



to exercise greater care in procuring technical expert services and for establishing an improved
system for monitoring their performance An improved system for the selection of candidate for
training and for managing their post-training management employment is also being considered.
(b) Cqflinanciers
On the whole, CDB's performance was satisfactory, timely and complementary. Of special
significance was the degree of joint action between the World Bank and CDB teams which
eliminated duplication of effort in reporting and ensured more efficient an effective supervision
visits. The basis is laid for further collaboration in co-financing arrangements in CDB's BMCs.
This project marked the first major education investment in any of CDB's Borrowing Member
Countries (BMCs) following approval of its new human resource development (HRD) strategy in
1993   CDB participated from the preparation phase, and considered that the design of the
resultant project constituted a major strategic initiative to tackle core deficiencies in sector
planning and institutional strengthening, teacher quality and student performnance, and in
expanding access to secondary education.
While it is yet too early to assess how well the long-term goal will be achieved, this review
indicates that the major targets in all components have been achieved. CDB-financed training for
17 secondary teachers in the priority areas of mathematics and science, and 1 050 ( 62.7% ) of
the new school places. In addition, grant funds were utilized for the conduct of the management
audit of MOE.
There are aspects of the implementation process that could weaken the overall impact of the
project in the medium to long-term. The late start to the policy studies as well as the less than
satisfactory quality of the process limited their value in the formulation of education policy and in
strengthening education planning. In terms of quality improvement, there is the possibility of high
attrition among the graduate teachers due to competing demand for science and mathematics
skills in the wider economy. It is noteworthy that of the 15 teachers who have completed their
degrees (the other two will complete in June 2001), only three have availed themselves of the
professional training course organized for them at SALCC. Further, there was a long delay in
mounting the sensitization workshops which were part of a CDB grant-funded sub-regional
school maintenance study. The survey was designed to assist beneficiary countries in preparing a
Maintenance Policy and Action Plan as a precursor to an overall improvement in schools' facilities
maintenance. The recent hosting of the workshops and the establishment of a post of Director of
Works are positive signs; however follow up action should be effected without further delay.
Except for a balance pertaining to interest during construction, CDB's loan and grant funds were
fully disbursed. The average time taken to process and pay claims was 17.5 days.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector)
There were no other partners involved.
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
0=. .taMari                               Pe.ct- fis -s -P-           -          Aaisst Estinat. 
1       Sector Planning & Institutional                                       New units are fully functioning
Strengthening MOE reorganized and new                                         Teacher/student ratios have been adjusted to
units fully functioning Greater efficiency in                                 1:28 at the primary level and 1:20 at the
the use of sector resources Teacher/student                                   secondary level: however, there is no
ratios adjusted from 1:27 to 1: 30 at primary                                 evidence that "savings' have been put into
level : and 1:17 to 1:20 5 at the secondary                                  the education budget for non-salary
level, increased share of sectoral budget                                     expenditures The system for monitoring
used for non-salary expenditures Effective                                    allocation of sector resources has not yet
design of new projects                                                        been fully established Allocation to supplies
and materials in 2000/01 for all schools was
3% 3 new projects have been prepared by
the Planning Unit based on the Education
Plan
2       Qualitative Improvement of Basic                                      There have been increases in the numbers
Education Increase the number of qualified                                   sitting in rnost subjects; however there have
secondary school graduates for the labor                                      been declines in Physics, Biology There are
market and for higher education; improved                                     no appreciable changes in pass rates
quality of teaching and leaming materials
Performance on standardized tests and CEE
at primary level weak, particulariy
mathematics revised curricula, Science
equipment, and kits, textbooks, trained staff
available Need to measure impact
3       Expansion of Access to Schools                                        Enrolment has increased from 10,190 in
Increased access to secondary level. 1675                                     1994/95 to 12,687 in 2000/01 There has
new places created. Primary to secondary                                      been a steady increase in the transition rates
transition rates to increase to 66%                                          from primary to secondary schools: 44% in
Reduction in overcrowding of primary                                          1994 to 53% in 1999; however, it is below
schools in Castries Selected primary                                          66% projected in the SAR  It should also be
schools rehabilitated Improved teaming                                        noted that with the increase in places 10% of
environment systematically maintenance                                        students assigned to secondary schools
scored below the national mean
Overcrowding persists in the Castries area;
however, the majority of schools (64) have a
surplus capacity ranging from 1 - 78%; 19
schools (23%) have 30% or more surplus
capacity
Works carried out at 19 schools included
re-roofing, construction of toilet blocks,
fencing, paving of grounds
Protracted delay in formulating maintenance
policy and plan Draft plan prepared by
consultant and discussed in workshops
Director of Works to be appointed by MOE
- 21 -



Output Indicators:
I  -       tnldtonFatrtx             XPro - j   i adtnln:tPSR   ;                      ;0 l- i jAtWuawtt Estmautl
1       Sector Planning & Institutional                                         Units have been established PMU and
Strengthening                                                                   DMU are part of Corporate Planning Unit,
formerly EDPO Total of 8 persons trained:
Three new units- PMU, ETX and DMU                                               1 planner received post graduate diploma,
established Staff trained: 6 Fellowships                                        another Masters degree; 1 statistician trained
provided in education planning (2), statistics                                  at Masters level another received 2 month
(2), financial analysis, one with specialization                                training in Microsoft systems (the latter no
in the use of computers (1) education                                           longer at MOE); 3 persons trained in
administration (1), Study tours in educational                                  educational administration, 1 in financial
reform for 2 senior staff, and for 3 project                                    management, (the latter is no longer at MOE
management staff                                                                and was deemed unsuitable for the post of
financial analyst)
Permanent Secretary and Deputy CEO
participated in study tour of Singapore,
Australia and New Zealand; procurement
officer and accountant completed study tour
of Jamaica, project managers attended
training in project management, new
procurement officer trained at ILO, Turin,
procurement assistant trained in purchasing
and supplies
Long term plan developed                                                        Education Sector Development Plan
(2000-2015 ) completed 3 of planned
studies; five other short studies were carried
out
Provide expert services in the areas of                                         1 consultant hired in planning- output
planning, data management, project                                              deemed unsatisfactory; 1 hired in data
management                                                                      management Systems in place for annual
production of Educational Statistical Digest
Management audit conducted                                                      Audit conducted, some recommendations
implemented
Sector data computerized                                                        Teacners' data base developed A
comprehensive EMIS in its pilot phase with
assistance from OERU
Quality Improvement Trained staff in the                                        3 persons trained in teacher education
areas of                                                                        masters level (science, mathematics & social
studies); 17 trained at bachelors level in
Teacher education (4), teaching of science                                      math (10), general science (3), biology (2),
and mathematics(8-12); primary education;                                       chemistry (1), and environmental science (1):
curriculum development (4) , general editing                                    3 returned fellows undertaking graduate
and publishing (1), art editing and publishing                                  teacher training studies; 700 teachers trained
(1); educational testing and measurement                                        at summer workshops, 180 principals and
(1); school supervision (2)                                                     senior teachers undertaking school
management training; 3 officers trained in
curriculum development- science, math and
social studies; 1 person trained at diploma
level in art editing and publishing (continued
to masters level); I masters level in general
editing and publishing; 1 fellow trained at
masters level in measurement and testing,
had an attachment to CXC; 1 officer
participated in workshop on dyslexia, 2 other
officers participated in study tour of testing
and assessment 3 persons trained, 2 in
school supervision, 1 in school social work
- 22 -



Provide expert services in curriculum                                       Expert in curriculum development assisted
development, publishing, production, testing                                CAMDU in revising curricula No experts in
and measurement, school supervision                                         publishing and production hired following
delays in advertising, short listed consultants
were non-responsive Expert services in
testing and measurement used to assess
newly introduced standardized test Expert
in effective schools provided
recommendations for improvement
Curricula for primary and lower secondary                                    Revised curricula for K-6 being pilot
level revisedScience kits supplied to 84                                    testedScience kits supplied to 33 schools
primary schools and science equipment and                                   and to 8 secondary schools
supplies to 8 upgraded secondary schools
Provide textbooks to each school for use by
teachers
Establish compjter labs in 3 schools                                        Reference books purchased Process of
distribution has not been completed (Feb
2001) Labs established at Castries
Comprehensive, Corinth and Anse Ger
Library at Baboneau Secondary modified to
serve as a resource center All functioning
satisfactorily
Revised policy on textbook procurement and                                  Draft policy on publishing enunciated No
publishing                                                                  policy on textbDoks; however, a committee
has been established to advise on textbooks
New tests developed New DEO                                                 Tests for Stage 3, Std 2 and Form 3
constructed,(Vieux Fort); expansion of 1 in                                 developed and in useVieux Fort DEO
Choiseul, DEO in Soufriere and Micoud                                       completed but not occupied due to difficulties
equipped                                                                    in installing utilities; other offices equipped
No clear policy on functioning of DEOs, and
their utilization as resource centers
3.Expansion of Access                                                       New secondary schools constructed: Anse
4 secondary schools constructed;                                             Ger, Babonneau, Laborie (Piaye); 1 school
schools rehabilitated                                                       replaced- Soufriere; all schools functioning
19 schools rehabilitated
End of project
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
rUS'O00 Do lars)
Project Component                         Appraisal    ActuattLatest Estimate  Perageao
Sector Planning and Institution Strengthening                              _                      _     _ _
Educational Planning                                                 347                     164        47%
Data Management                                                      221                     137        62%
Project Management                                                   245                     246        100%
General Administration                                               222                     421        189%
Sub-Total             1 035                    967        93%
Qualitative Improvements
Teacher Training                                                     957                    1,050       110%
Cunculurn Development                                                750                     475        63%
Testing and Measurement                                              359                     187        52%
Educational Materials                                                462                      98        21%
School Supervision                                                   547                     825       151%
Sub-Total             3,075                  2.635        66%
Expanding Access to Schools                             ,
Construction of Four Secondary Schools                              8,251                 10,100        122%
Rehabilitation of Primary Schools                                    476                     400        84%
Sub-Total                                   10,500    1   20%
Totals                                                             12J837                  14,103            110'
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent
,   ........................ , . .. .. .................  ---.. ---.
Exp.n8gtture Category                                                                                *                      To IE040;0-:ti ::; cnal i-- : h - N,   l
: g :7: i:::: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  _............ - :-}--i.t ts
1. Works                                351               024                 0.00               0 46            3.00           7 21
2. Goods                                1.24               0 40               0.00               0 89            0.00           2 53
3. Services                             0.00               0.00               0 65               0.00            0.00           0.65
4. TA Works                             0.00               0.00                0.42              0.00            0.31           0 73
5. Training                             0 00               0.00               0.00               0 00            0.31           0 31
6. Studies                              0.00               0.00               0.00               0.00            0 18           0.18
7. Fellowships                          0.00               0.00                0 00              0.61            0 54            1.15
0.00              0.00                0.00               0 00            0.00           0.00
8. Maintenance                          0 00              0 00                0.00               0 00            0.08           0 08
Total                               4 75              0 64                 1.07              1.96            4 42          12.84
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
- 24 -



-- owasewe,nt M.-tho4d
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ .......... .,-  .X g  -.-         - - -- --     ....... - -  --   --   - --- - --  .......  .... -.-.--  .   .........
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .    .      .... ___. ...... .. . ..
ut  ~~~~~~~.Totali
1. Works              2.40          0.40          0.00        000         0.00         0 00        5.99        8 79
2. Goods              0.73          0 00          0.14        0.49         0.00        0 75        0.00        2.10
3. Services           0.00          0.00          0.00        0 57        0.00         0.00        0.00        0 57
4. TA Works           0.00          0 00          0.00        0.00         0.31        0.00        0.41        0.72
5. Training           0.00          0.00          0.00        0.16        0.00         0 00        0.26        0.41
6. Studies            0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.04        0 04
7. Fellowships        0.00          0.00          0.00        0.52         0.00        0 00        0 61        1 13
8. Maintenance        0.00          0 00          0.00        0.00         0.00        0 00        0.02        0 02
Total              3 13          0.40          0.14        174         0 31         0.75        7 33       13 79
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs
include contingencies.
" Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the pioject management office, training,
technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) imanaging
the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 25 -



_   (US'000 Dollars)
Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate                       % Percentages
IBRD/IoDAe  GOSL    CDB        Total  IBRDJiDA    GOSL        CDB       Total   IBRD/IDA   GOSL    CDB          Total
Sector Planning and Insrtiution Strengthening      _                                              _           ___
Educational Plannin           217       130                347       132          31               163    61%         24%                47%
Data Management               216         5                221       135           1               136    63%         16%                62%
Project Management            240         5   __           245       242           3               245    101%        59%                100%
General Administration        217         5       321     254        386          26       291     440    178%   1 518%                  173%
Sub-Total      890        145       32     1,067       895         61       29       985    101%        42%       =        92%
Qualitative Improvements                                                                     I
Teacher Training              119       295      756     1,170        172        316      606     1,094    144%       107%      80%      94%
Curiculum Development         734        16                750       516           5               521      70%       31%                69%
Testing and Measurement       316        44    _           360        186                           186    59%         0%                52%
Educational Materials         357       106                463       153           1                154    43%         1%                33%
School Supervision            443       104                547       728         224               952    164%        215%               174%
Sub-Trotl     1969       565       756     3,290      1755    54.915       606      2,907    89%        97%      80%       88%
Expanding Access to Schools
Construction of Four Secor   3511      2222    3274      9,007       307      3,003    3,405      9,714    94%        135%     104%      108%
Rehabilitation of Primary S   358       118                476       299         100               399    83%         84%                84%
Sub-Total     3869      2340    3274       9,483      3605       3103    3405   10,113       93%        133X     104%      107%
Totals                      6,728     3,050    4        13,E40       6,256    3,710    4,039    14,005    93%         122%      99%      101%
- 26 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions
Stage of Project Cycle      .N  of Persons nd Specialty                          Performance Rating
(e g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc)       Implementation   Development
Monti/Year   Count            Spealtv_                         Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
July, 1991                   1   Sr Economist
August, 1993                 1   Principal Operations Officer
Appraisal/Negotiation
Novembrt, 1994
December, 1994               7   Senior Economist, Education
Specialist, Procurement
Specialist, Financial Officer,
Counsel
Supervision
June, 1996                   2   Task Manager, Education              S               S
Specialist
June, 1996                                                            S               S
(update)
December, 1996               4   Financial Management                 S               S
Specialist, Operations Specialist,
Task Manager, Education
Specialist
May, 1997                    1   Task Manager                         S               S
July, 1997                   4   Education Specialist, Task Team      S               S
(Mid-Term)                       Leader, Financial Analyst, SA on
Training
October, 1997                3   Task Team Leader, Financial          S               S
Analyst, Education Consultant
November, 1997               2   Procurement                          S               S
May, 1998                    5   Task Team Leader, Education          S               S
Specialist, Education Consultant,
Financial Analyst, Architect
December, 1998               6   Task Manager, Education              S               S
Specialist, Consultants
June, 1999                                                            S               S
(Update)
December, 1999               4   Education Specialist, Program        S               S
Officer, Team Assistant,
Financial Management
May, 2000                    4   Education Specialist,                S                S
Procurement Specialist,
Procurement Assistant, Financial
Specialist
ICR
October, 2000               2    Education Specialist,                S                S
Procurement Specialist
- 28 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
A __________________________           No. Staff weeks     _           US$  ('00)
Identification/Preparation                    62                        341,699
Appraisal/Negotiation                        29 6                        75,195
Supervision                                  90 2                    230,399 91
ICR                                         15.35                      58,126 77
Total                                      197.15                    705,420.68
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LI Macro policies                        OH  OSUOM  O1N  *NA
LO Sector Policies                       O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Pi PhVsical                              OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Financial                              O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
LI Institutional Development             0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
E3 Gender                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
rI Other (Please specifzj)        O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Private sector development             0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  * NA
G Public sector management               0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                O H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6 1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS *S OU OHU
O Supervision                                        O HS * s   OU  O HU
0 Overall                                            O  IIS * S  O  U  O HU
6 2 Borrower pe formance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        O HS * S  O U  O HU
L Government implementation performance              0 HS * S  O  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 0 HS 0 S  O  U  O HU
F1 Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
I  Government of St. Lucia. January, 2000. Education Act. No. 41, 1999
2  Government of St Lucia. June, 2000 Education Statistical Digest Past Trends Present Position and
Projections up to 2005
3. Government of St Lucia February, 2000. Education Development Plan 2000 - 2005 and beyond
Ministry of Education, Human Resource Development, Youth and Sports.
- 32 -



ST. LUCIA
BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
IBRD Loan (383 7-SL),IIDA Credit (2676-SL)
CDB Loan (16-SFR-OR-STL); CDB Grant (GA 12/ST.L)
FINAL EVALUATION REPORT
December, 2000
Corporate Planning Unit
Ministry of Education, HRD, Youth and Sports



ii
St. Lucia Basic Education Reform Project
Final Project Evaluation Report
CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION .............................................1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES .............................................2
PROJECT DESIGN .............................................3
IMPLEMENTATION: OUTPUTS AND EXPERIENCES ............................................4
BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE ............................................6
FINANCIERS' PERFORMANCE .............................................8
KEY LESSONS LEARNED ....9.........................................9
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Summary of Project Achievements
Appendix B: Beneficiaries - Fellowship and Short Term Training
Appendix C: Status of Incremental Staff Positions under the Reform Process
Appendix D: Summary of Expert Services - Programmed and Delivered
Appendix E: Secondary school enrolment and staffing, 1994/95 and 2000/01
Appendix F: Project Cost By Component
Appendix G: Disbursement Schedules
Appendix H: Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement - Appraisal Estimates and Actual
Appendix I: Project Cost by Component and by Financier



ST. LUCIA BASIC EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
FINAL EVALUATION REPORT
Introduction
1. Ihis final evaluation report on the Basic Education Reform Project is prepared in fulfilment
of Government of St. Lucia (the Borrower) responsibility toward the preparation of the
project's Implementation Completion Report (ICR). Consistent with the Guidelines for
Preparing ICRs, the report includes an assessment of the project objective, design and
implementation, and an evaluation of the Borrower and Financiers' performance in the
development and implementation of the Project.
2. The Basic Education Reform Project was designed as a strategy to assist the Government of
St. Lucia in undertaking the first phase of an accelerated reform in education to achieve
increased efficiency and effectiveness of the education system, and to enhance equity of
access to learning opportunities.  Sector analyses involving international and local
consultants and counterparts during the preparation phase identified problems of low student
achievement, shortages of secondary school places, poor quality of educational inputs,
inadequate supervision of instructional delivery and weak institutional capacity to plan,
manage, monitor and evaluate system performance. The recommendations from those studies
formed the basis for the following three project sub-components that focus on the basic
education cycle:
*  Sector Planning and Institutional Strengthening which involved the reorganisation of
existing structures of the MOE to improve sector planning and analysis, the
development of a long-range plan, the strengthening of financial and educational
administration, the development of an integrated data system, the establishment of a
project management capability and the undertaking of planning and policy-related
studies critical to the education system.
*  Qualitative Improvement at the Basic Education Level that sought to upgrade teacher
training capability, increase in-service teacher training, develop improved curricula,
expand and improve educational testing and measurement function, improve the
supervision of instructional delivery and establish more efficient methods of selecting
producing, procuring and distributing educational materials.
* Expansion of Access to Educational Opportunity which included the provision of
additional secondary school places in select under-served areas and the rehabilitation
of select Primary schools
3. Financial support for the Project was secured via a Credit (Cr. # 2676 - SLU) from the
International Development Association, a Loan (Ln. # 3837-SLU) from the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and a Loan (16-SFR-OR-ST.L) and Grant (GA
12/ST.L) from the Caribbean Development Bank. The Government of St. Lucia (GOSL) also
contributed to the financing of several project related activities.



2
Project Objectives
4. The stated overall objective of the Project was to: "accelerate human resource development
to ensure that the requisite manpower exists to attain the desired economic transition in St.
Lucia." It was hoped that this broad objective would be achieved through:
* Strengthening of the Planning and institutional capacity of the Ministry to guide and
carry out the long term development of the sector, while enabling it to initiate significant,
urgent measures to address system-wide qualitative problems and expansion needs at the
secondary level;
* Catalyse a major adjustment process, focused on revision to more reasonable levels of
primary and secondary teacher to student ratios . . . to ensure that already relatively high
levels of resource allocations to public education better respond to current and projected
needs. (Staff Appraisal Report No. 13646 - SLU, 1994)
5. Since the Project targeted the Basic Education cycle the ultimate beneficiaries were Primary
and Secondary school students. The Project was therefore not expected, by itself, to succeed
in realising the national goal stated above. The immediate benefits of the intervention must
be viewed instead in terms of the foundation it has established on which higher-level
education and training efforts could be built.  Thus, through the building of institutional
capacity in such critical areas as Planning and the Management of the system it is anticipated
that there would be a better articulation between immediate Project outputs and the long-term
goals of the country.
6. Much emphasis was placed on the adjustment of teacher to student ratiosI to realise greater
efficiencies in the sector. The success of this measure can be seen from the fact that
secondary enrolment increased by approximately 2, 500 over the life of the Project but with
the addition of only 48 teachers. (See Appendix E). With successive real cuts in the
Education budget in recent years an increasingly greater savings was expected from adopting
that strategy if only to maintain the status quo. Regrettably, the savings that were realised
through that effort were not reflected in the education sector budget for reallocation to areas
such as materials, equipment and supplies as planned. Additionally, the adjustments may
have reached their practical limits sooner than was expected and so the projected windfall
never materialised. It is noteworthy that while the relatively more flexible structure of
Secondary schools readily accommodated those changes Primary schools posed a greater
challenge, particularly the smaller ones and those in remote communities.
7. The project was successful in achieving the objective of catalysing the adjustment process
and very significantly, in raising an awareness of the need to be more efficient in resource
use throughout the sector. The overall success might have been enhanced had there been a
more comprehensive sector efficiency programme backed by a similar government-wide
programme. In the absence of these it was felt that only one group (teachers) was being
asked to make major sacrifices to the benefit of others.
At the start of the Project in 1995 teacher/student ratios were 1 17 and 1 27 at secondary and primary schools
respectively By the start of the 2000/01 academic year those ratios had changed to 1: 19 and 1 28 respectively at
secondary and primary schools.



3
Project Design
8. The design of the project was agreed upon through extensive discussions during the
preparation and appraisal phases between the Government, the World Bank and CDB. What
was agreed to seemed reasonable and appropriate at the time but experience has since shown
that some of the underlying assumptions were overly ambitious. For example, while the
wide mix of civil works, goods and technical assistance were carefully selected to address the
widely varied sector issues, they resulted in a Project that was much too complex for an
inexperienced Project Management team to handle. This is in spite of the fact that the design
had provided for the hiring of Project Management expert services and for securing training
and attachment for project staff during the start-up phase. It was to the credit of the
management team therefore, that the majority of the outputs was achieved within the
implementation period.
9. The project was heavily front-loaded. Accordingly Project funds were committed but accrued
heavy charges in the process due to a much slower paced start-up phase. Disbursements
increased towards the middle with the eventual cumulative disbursements schedule taking the
classical 'S-shaped' curve. (See Appendix G). Disbursements did not go according to the
plan for early work on the civil works component for several reasons. Firstly, the completion
of the final designs was arranged as an extension of the consultant's contract for project
preparation activities to facilitate an early start to the civil works. However that objective
was not achieved until well into project implementation. Secondly, given the fact that
building sites had not been acquired and freed of all encumbrances, it was unreasonable to
expect that about 50% of Project funds would have been disbursed within the first two years
of implementation. Finally, the proposal to hire a project management expert at the start-up
phase never materialised until the third year of implementation.
10. The weights allocated to the resource mix did not seem appropriate, especially the relatively
high consultant input. (See Appendix D). A strong case was made by the Government to
reduce on the total amount of expert services to be provided under the Project. It was argued
that the total outlay on that activity did not justify the value added nor addressed adequately
the sustainability issue. The decision, during the mid-term review of the Project by the
Ministry to convert some of the funds under expert services toward the management training
of Ministry staff and principals and senior teachers, was an attempt to redress that situation.
Already, the high positive impact of that particular training programme on the entire
education system has vindicated that decision. The Government also made a plea at the
design phase to increase the proportion of Project funds going toward civil works, against the
advice of the Banks for a substantial allocation to "softer" or more qualitative activities. The
decision not to finance the addition of multi-purpose halls to the new secondary schools is
now proving to have been ill advised because of the critical need for the facilities now. That
aside, and on the evidence of the outputs of this Project, the Ministry of Education is now
convinced that the anticipated reform would not be achieved without significant attention to
qualitative issues. In fact experience showed that it would have been a strategic error to
emphasise access issues while compromising on Planning and Institutional Strengthening,
and Qualitative issues.



4
11. A considerable amount of Project resources (other than those targeted for the Expansion of
Access sub-component) was allocated to the management and supervision of the sector with
the assumption that it would bring indirect benefits to the ultimate beneficiaries - the
students. As some of the project outcomes were realised towards the end of the Project
(although they were planned to take place earlier) it would be some time before one could
assess their impact on students. There remains the perception that some of those resources
would have been better allocated to activities that impact more directly on learning, for
example, on teaching/learning materials and supplies, equipment and on improving the
learning environment.  Similarly, the equity of access issue was addressed from the
perspective of providing additional school places at the secondary level in underserved areas.
The Project however, did not adequately deal with the equity issue by targeting the less
privileged students or in the distribution of resources to provide greater benefits to poorer
students.
12. The loan conditions continued to be a source of concern for many in the system up to project
end. It appeared that either the lack of experience of Government's negotiating team and/or
the absence of a clearly defined education development thrust might have lead to a project
design and acceptance of loan conditionalities that seemed unsatisfactory to sections within
Government. Issues such as the extent of the adjustment to the teacher to pupil ratios, the
elimination of transportation subsidies, the low thresholds for obtaining Bank prior reviews
and for applying ICB for procurement might have been handled in a manner that was more
agreeable to both donors and GOSL had the local team been better prepared.
Implementation: Outputs and Experiences
13. The Project was very successful in delivering most of the planned outputs and even surpassed
them in some cases, by the original closing date. (See Appendix A for a summary of the
planned and achieved targets).   Extensions to the closing date by one month for the CDB
funded component and by a total of 6 months for the World Bank funded component were
mainly to allow for the procurement and delivery of certain goods including textbooks,
school supplies and computers. Some of the most significant achievements include improved
testing capabilities, strengthened capacity for sector planning, data management, improved
project management and school management capabilities, and increased quality of access to
schools.
14. The addition of 1725 additional school places made it possible, for the first time, for all
students achieving at least at the national mean in the Common Entrance Examinations to
find a place at secondary schools. Unfortunately, students in the neighbourhood of the new
schools continue to opt for the more traditional schools as their first choice. In any case the
new schools are already operating at full capacity and the Ministry of Education has initiated
a strategy to make them more attractive to students and parents. This includes recruiting high
quality staff and advertising, via the publication of secondary schools handbook, the facilities
and programmes offered at those schools. In the mean time there are complaints that the new
facilities do not adequately reflect the curriculum offered. This is partly due to the changes
2 A proposed study on MOE's research agenda is the comparative analysis of the performance of students at the
CXC before 1995, during project implementation and post implementation



5
in curriculum perspectives since the original designs and the completion of the schools four
to five years later. Complaints about the size of the classrooms, the positioning of staircases,
the layout of labs and the absence of multi-purpose rooms suggest that school designs need to
be reviewed.
15. There were achievements beyond expectations in several areas as the PMU and the Policy
and Administration section of the Ministry of Education continually sought creative and
efficient ways of doing business. The following represent some of the notable significant
achievements beyond planned targets:
* Increases in the number of fellows trained at both the graduate and post-graduate
levels and in the number of short-term training offered to staff. (See details of project
training programme in Appendix B).
* Increases by over 200 the number of teachers trained at local workshops/seminars
* The training of 180 principals and senior teachers, and 25 MOE staff in management
theory and practice
* Increases in the number of computers and office equipment purchased.
* Increases by 4 the number of District Education Offices receiving equipment,
furniture and supplies
* Refurbishing of the main building of the District Office at Choiseul
16. Despite the high achievements some areas of underachievement remain a source of concern
to government because of the long-term implications for the reform process. These include:
* The non-production of a maintenance policy and maintenance plan
* The absence of a textbook publishing and procurement policy
* The generally weak planning and policy-related studies that were conducted by local
researchers and the poor research capabilities exhibited at all levels of the system.
* The absence of a system for ensuring continuity in critical functions such as in the
PMU
* The absence of a procurement planning and a mechanism for monitoring contracts,
and keeping proper inventories
* Absence of proper functioning of the Project Advisory Committee
* Retention of returned fellows
Because of their critical role in the functioning of the organisation, these areas will continue
to be given priority attention beyond the project. There are already, ongoing discussions with
the SALCC to collaborate in seeking to strengthen the research capacity. The proposed
restructuring of the Plant and Equipment Unit is expected to address many of the
maintenance issues that plague the system. The restructuring and reorienting of other key
areas such as CAMDU, Accounts, and Stores and Supplies will go a long way in
ameliorating the other procurement related and publishing issues.
17. Undoubtedly, procurement activities posed the most difficulty for the implementing Unit
from several perspectives. The task of dealing with GOSL and Bank (both CDB and World
Bank) procurement procedures and guidelines, and the special conditions in the respective



6
Agreements posed a huge challenge. In consequence, there was variation between the agreed
procurement method and the actual method used. For example, expenditure on works and
goods (USD3.13m) using ICB was significantly less than Appraisal estimate (USD4.15).
(See Appendix H). There was a considerable shift to using International Shopping instead.
Other difficulties with the procurement surrounded the ever-changing demands of beneficiary
Units. That contributed to delays and much aggravation when those demands could not be
met. Considerable time was spent on item specification as the work of the consultant who
was hired prior to the start date for that purpose proved unsatisfactory. Developing TORs for
the hiring of consultant services also posed its own set of challenges and there appeared to
have been problems in supervising many of those experts to ensure that the required
objectives were attained. On the whole, contract administration and supervision needed to be
more systematic.
18. Project outputs were generally achieved within cost estimates, with the exception of the civil
works programme where all schools were completed at costs beyond project estimates. (See
Appendix F). Actual expenditure on this component exceeded the appraisal estimates by
26%. The reasons for those increased costs included changes in the physical quantities,
modifications to meet DCA requirements, and challenges posed by difficult sites especially
in the case of Babonneau. It bears noting that the original cost estimates were not based on
the selected sites. The rehabilitation of the Choiseul District Office had not been catered for
and was borne fully by Government since the World Bank objected to the use of loan
proceeds because of the procurement method used for hiring the contractor. As all additional
costs had to be met by GOSL, the borrower's share of the total cost had increased
substantially by project end to USD3.913m. This represented an increase of 67% over the
Appraisal estimate of USD2.34m for the 'Expanding Access to Schools' category. (See
Appendix I). The Bank agreed to adjust Project financing to reflect the 36% GOSL share of
the civil works component.
19. Throughout implementation, and especially since the change of administration in 1997, there
was the constant need to modify the project to address pressing and unanticipated system
needs. The mid-term review proved to be successful in providing a great opportunity to
achieve this. Project supervision staff of both financing institutions were quite open to MOE
suggestions for undertaking activities that best responded to the changing needs of the
system. Notable examples were the expansion of local training to include Management
training for MOE staff, principals and teachers, and the support to additional District Offices
and Units within the organisation that were not originally planned for. In the process, the
education sector realised significant strides toward system reform.
Borrower's Performance
20. The performance of Government, and in particular, the Project Management Unit during the
life of the Project was generally satisfactory in spite of the complexity of the Project and also
due to the fact that it was the first time that the Government had managed on its own a World
Bank/CDB-financed education project. It would be to the benefit of the system if the present
core of trained staff of PMU who have gained such rich experience in implementing
internationally financed projects could remain in the system to ensure that the lessons learned



7
were applied and/or passed on. So far some of the experiences are being transferred to the
preparation and implementation of other projects. Notwithstanding, there is an urgent need
to review the PMU's staff complement to reduce the obviously high level of stress on present
staff. For example, personnel in critical areas such as Accounting and secretarial support
need to be augmented. One senior accountant cannot accomplish the amount of clerical
accounting tasks and office-to-office legwork to be performed if payments are to be made
from special accounts or through the government treasury. It is proposed that an Accounts
Clerk be attached to the Unit for additional support. Also, additional office support is
required at the Administrative Assistant level to handle the large volume of project
correspondence and in managing an office organisation that deals with the high numbers of
consultants, clients and beneficiaries.
21. The early stages of the Project Cycle appeared to have been driven by the agents and task
managers of the financiers in collaboration with some higher-level local officials at the
Ministries of Education, and in Finance and Planning. Earlier involvement of programme
managers and beneficiary units might have led to fewer complaints from that group and to
greater success during implementation. Generally, Project implementation was viewed as the
business of the PMU and not that of the beneficiary units. Efforts to redress the situation
during implementation did not prove successful due in part to poor communication between
the PMU  staff, beneficiary units and relevant government agencies.  Other factors
contributed to the problems remaining unresolved even up to the end of the project. One was
the failure by administration to adequately communicate the Project - its purpose, content
and implementation methods and procedures - to all stakeholders. Another was that project
activities were already finalised by the time some effort was made to address the issue. In
cases where it was possible the necessary design changes that was needed to satisfy
beneficiary requirements would have been too bureaucratic, time consuming and invariably,
too costly for the Project.
22. Project preparation activities were facilitated by a Japanese Grant Fund. The World Bank
managed this. The institution took the lead in recruiting all international and regional
consultants with opportunity for review by the Ministry. This procedure helped to accelerate
the process especially as the agency had limited experience in the procurement of expert
services. However, more careful selection of local counterparts on some of those studies
might have ensured more productive outcomes and for building capacity in the area under
study. Also the benefits to the system might have been greater had local officials made
greater use of those reports to collaborate more meaningfully with the Bank staff in the
design of the project.
23. Project implementation suffered from the lack of timely support given by other Government
Agencies that were directly responsible for executing certain critical activities. Most notably
were: the Ministry of Health, for tardiness in approving sanitary works; the Ministry of
Communication, for delays in undertaking municipal works for access roads, drainage or
road alignment; the Ministry of Planning for the inordinate length of time it took to remove
encumbrances off proposed building sites; the Ministry of Finance for delays in providing
counterpart funds, particularly those for funding activities other than civil works. While
payments by the PMU out of the Special account and the Project account were done



8
promptly and the PMU developed an excellent relationship with suppliers those payments
which had to be effected via the Treasury, took much longer, sometimes to the frustration of
suppliers. In fact local suppliers responded favourably and promptly to purchase orders from
the PMU while they refused to honour those from the wider Ministry.
24. The Project did not receive the anticipated advice from the Project Advisory Committee.
The meetings of that body were infrequent and representation during the latter stages of
implementation was at such low level that, for policy decision-making purposes, it was
virtually ineffective. The high rate of staff turnover exacerbated the problem.
25. The Project required structural changes to the MOE with significant financial implications
for increased Government expenditures due to increased staff positions. (See Appendix C).
Some of the increased costs of operations were met through the elimination of transport
subsidies and the gains from moving to more efficient teacher to student ratios. There exists
a clear commitment on the part of government to continue to maintain those structures post
Project completion, thus ensuring the sustainability of the programme. In that context the
2001-2002 budget will present a huge challenge and the real test by which time GOSL would
be fully responsible for a substantial share of the operational costs of beneficiary units that
were borne out by the Project.
26. One major source of concern to Government is the maintenance of the heavy investments in
the school plant. The maintenance plan that was submitted by the consultants for each new
school constructed under the project will be followed as closely as is practicable. There are
yet no plans in place for the maintenance of the 19 primary schools rehabilitated under the
project or for the other remaining 78 publicly maintained schools.
27. Another source of concern is that the substantial investments in the training personnel may
not bring the desired returns. Some of those persons are not currently employed in areas
where they could utilise their newly acquired skills. Some others, because of poor attitude
have not seized upon opportunities to make a difference in their work environment.
Additionally, many of the trainees have left the education system having little or no
opportunity to pass on their knowledge or to utilise it to enhance the reform process. The
Ministry of Education has sought to address these problems through the implementation of a
more systematic fellowship selection process and the initiation of a succession plan for key
posts.
Financiers' Performance
28. The financing institutions were, on the whole, very supportive in all phases of the Project
Cycle. The institutions were generally responsive to requests by the Ministry of Education to
change project content consistent with the broad objects agreed upon. This allowed for the
Project to respond better to the changing needs of the very dynamic education system. The
delays in responding to request for no objections and for matters requiring prior review by
the World Bank, however, were a source of much aggravation for the PMU. Obtaining
feedback on procurement matters, especially when certain Bank staff were out on vacation
was one cause of delay. A case which best illustrates this is the chronicle of events leading to



9
the granting of the Bank's "no objection" for the procurement of goods under Categories 2a
and 2b: The PMU received a fax from the World Bank requesting clarification for the
intended procurement and a series of requested data was sent to the Bank. The "no objection
eventually came approximately six to seven weeks (October 3 - November 21, 2000) after
the initial request. Other causes of delay cannot be attributed to staff, but to technical
difficulties in the forwarding and receiving of faxes.
29. Applications for disbursements were generally processed on time by both financing
institutions, with some exceptions. Toward the close of the Project, two direct payments by
the World Bank to the beneficiaries were very late and sent astray. In the case of Application
for Withdrawal #17 which was forwarded to the Bank on November 10, 2000, the payment
was made December 07, 2000 and received by the Supplier January 8, 2001. Application for
Withdrawal # 18 which was forwarded to the Bank on November 10, 2000, was paid on
December 07, 2000 and received by the Supplier on January 5, 2001. These required several
follow-up correspondence by the PMU after numerous complaints were made by the
suppliers because of non-receipt of funds. It turned out that in all cases the applications were
in order but that the Bank was simply tardy in issuing payments or in following up to correct
their errors. Under present arrangements it appears that the Government would be liable for
breech of contract regarding late payments to suppliers even when the Bank is clearly at
fault. This situation needs to be reviewed. Payments from the CDB accounts were made
directly to the beneficiaries with little notable delays. However, the UWI institutions, Cave
Hill Campus (Barbados), and Mona (Jamaica) in particular, delayed in the issuing to students
subsistence and book allowances that had been paid in on time by the CDB, thereby causing
those students considerable distress.
30. Staff of the financing institutions provided valuable support to the PMU to help deal with the
challenges of implementation especially during the supervision missions. In fact most
missions proved to be a ready source of technical assistance especially when supervision
staff in finance and procurement were on board. The idea of the joint supervision missions
by the World Bank and CDB and the production of common aide memoirs and project status
reports worked satisfactorily and reduced the level of duplication that would otherwise have
been the case.
Key Lessons Learned
The experiences of BERP offered valuable lessons for future education projects.
31. In the area of civil works it is imperative to secure beneficiary input at the design stage and
for adequately defining project needs before tender and start of construction. Ideally, the
principals of the new schools should be identified as early as during the design phase and
brought in on the initial discussions. Also, the curriculum and equipment needs should be
established at that time. This can help to reduce time over runs and overall cost of civil
works as a result of effecting changes to meet beneficiary demands.
32. Undertaking cost estimates to determine the financing plan for civil works should be done on
the basis of actual building sites and following the undertaking of feasibility studies. This is



10
in an effort to reduce the significant variance between those estimates and contract prices.
Thus, it would be necessary to settle all issues relevant to proposed construction sites
including, ownership, encumbrances, utilities, and surveys before project start date.
33. To achieve greater efficiency in project execution, thresholds for prior review need to be
revised upwards. Much energy was expended in seeking Bank prior approval or "no
objection" for procuring goods and services for what seemed to be low financial thresholds.
The limits for international competitive biding procedures were also very low to the extent
that international firms expressed no interest in some of the bid packages.
34. Future projects need to make room for the exercise of flexibility during implementation.
Once there is agreement on the broad objectives to be pursued and on the scope of assistance
to be provided there should be an agreed mechanism to facilitate adjustments within and
across sub-components as implementation progresses. In the circumstances, the Ministry of
Education suggests that the Sector support approach rather than the Project support approach
might be more suitable to funding education projects.
35. In order to reduce the burden on an already stretched local treasury there needs to be a
different arrangement for meeting increased project costs other than simply requiring the
Borrower to pay for all variations. Cost differentials due to changes in the physical
quantities or qualitative improvements need to be treated differently from cost
overruns that might be due to such factors as poor project management, inflation, and
poor service/works delivery.
36. In circumstances where borrower commitments for timely payments to contractors, suppliers
and consultants are not fulfilled and are due to delays is the processing of payment by the
financier the borrower should not be held liable for the consequences of the delays. The
financier should bear a share of the costs. Those terms need to be spelled out in the
agreements and contracts.
37. Project financing should more adequately reflect Government overall contributions by
factoring in other costs which are directly related to implementation activities. Counterpart
support to BERP was far in excess of the estimates in the respective SARs or Loan/Credit
Agreements. Project costs should also reflect:
* Salaries, administrative and operational costs, and office accommodation for PMU
* Accommodation, transportation, facilitator time for local training
 Cost of replacing fellows while on long-term training
* Support services such as brokerage fees, storage, distribution
* Cost for local counterpart time to support expert services
* The construction of access roads, surveys, utility works not accounted for in civil
works contracts.
38. The support and commitment of other Government agencies is critical for successful project
implementation. Hence, a mechanism must be found for fostering greater inter-agency
collaboration. The strategy to facilitate this through invitations to participate in project



11
launch workshops or within the operations of the Project Advisory Committee has not been
successful.
39. Great care should be exercised in the selection of candidates for training and in planning for
their post graduation deployment in an attempt to ensure that: a) the individuals with the right
aptitude and performance record are selected; and b) the individuals are employed in the
fields for which they were trained. Some mechanism (other than the bonding arrangement)
must be established to secure the services of returned fellows for sufficiently long time for
their newly acquired knowledge and skills to be passed on to others.
40. Prior to Project start date site acquisition and surveys must be completed and pronounced
ready for occupation by the contractor, even when such sites are purported to be owned by
Government. The long drawn out process for compensating and relocating squatters on
proposed sites impact negatively on targets not to mention the increased cost to government
via price changes and payment of commitment charges on undisbursed loan balances.
41. Participation in and ownership of education reform projects by key stakeholders results in
greater support during the implementation phase.  The beneficiaries and prospective
implementing Units ought to have been more involved from the project identification phase
in order to secure the necessary commitment during implementation.
42. The work of Consultants in the training of locals needs to be more structured in order to
ensure that relevant skills are transferred to local counterparts.  In this context the
experiences with the Data Management Consultant stands out as a model for securing expert
services with the primary function of developing local capacity. Counterpart with right
aptitude and working full time with the consultant to achieve certain specified outputs appear
to be the ideal ingredients for successful expert services.
43. Projects need to establish a workable balance between the following imperatives in the
pursuit of the objective of capacity building:
  The need to recruit world class expert services in cutting-edge areas that are vital to
the strategic direction of the education system;
  The utilization of regional and local expertise in the conduct of sector studies and in
areas in which an intimate knowledge of the local environment is crucial
  The selection of the most appropriate modality for achieving capacity building in
specific areas.



12
Appendix A
Summary: Project Achievements
Component/Sub-             Targets                       Achievements/Comments
Component                                 I
A. Sector Plannin and Institutional Strengthening
1. Sector        a. Expand and strengthen    One planner trained at the post-graduate diploma level
Planning             Planning Unit via training  and another at the Masters level
of two planners
b. Prepare Long Range Plan   Education Sector Development Plan completed with
part assistance from DFID.
c. Employ an expert to assist  Education Planning consultancy did not achieve the
the EPU of the          key desired objective of developing a sector plan
Educational Planning and
Development Office
d. Conduct select planning    Two of the five planned studies were conducted. Five
and policy-related studies  others related to relevant issues in education were also
and surveys             conducted.
2. Educational    a. Establish separate Data  Done. Unit now incorporated in to Corporate
Data System          Management Unit         Planning Unit.
(DMU) as first phase
b. Train two Statisticians,    One statistician trained at the Masters level in
one with specialisation in  Statistics and Computing and another pursued a short
the use of computers    (two months) training in Microsoft Systems.
c. Computerise sector data,   This is ongoing. A Teachers Database has been
including students,     developed and a more comprehensive EMIS is now in
teaclhers, schools, budget  its pilot phase.
accounts, Personinel
d. Employ expert to advise    Done. Expert left systems in place for the annual
on and help establish   production of Educational Statistical Digest. The
DMU                     statisticians in Corporate Planning have improved on
these.
3  General       a. Conduct Management       Audit conducted and some recommendations
Administration       Audit of MOE aimed at   implemented. Another management study towards the
identifying precise     end of the Project also provides recommendations for
measures needed to      the further improvement of the management of the
improve organisation,   operations of the MOE.
procedures, and
operations.
b. Train two persons, one in   Four persons were trained, one in Financial
financial analysis, one in   Management and three in Educational Administration,
educational             all at the Masters level.
administration



13
Component/Sub-             Targets                       Achievements/Comments
Component
c. Conduct study tours for    PS and DCEO participated in World Bank organised
two senior staff for    study tour of Singapore, Australia and New Zealand.
discussions on          Six other officers attended seminars overseas.
educational reforms     Multimedia report has been prepared and plans are in
overseas and attendance   place to hold internal seminars to disseminate
at related seminars     experiences.
4. Project       a. Establish a Project      PMU established and now forms part of Corporate
Management and       Management Unit (PMU)  Planning of MOE. Project Management expert was
Development         to carry out the Project    employed well into project implementation. However
and employ an expert to   all PMU staff and other officers from select
set up the PMU and      government Ministries benefited seminars in project
launch project          management procedures and processes. Procurement
implementation          expert supported early work of project
implementation.
b. Appoint a Project        All designated posts were filled. Additionally a
Manager, an Accountant.  Procurement Officer was assigned to the Unit. This
A Procurement Officer    post has been proposed for permanency within the
and a Clerk/Typist.     established structure.
c. Train three staff on study   Procurement Officer and Accountant attended study
tours for orientation in    tour of Jamaica. Both Project Managers attended
Project Management      training in Project Management, one each for 2 weeks
and/or Procurement      and 4 weeks at New Mexico State University and
Setym, Quebec respectively; Procurement Officer
attended 1 month's training at ILO, Turin;
Procurement Assistant attended Purchasing and
Supplies workshop in New York and is currently
enrolled in part-time training.
d. Adopt, as far as possible,   Procurement practices of PMU now being adopted in
the procedures used in    certain aspects of MOE procurement but the practice
Project management      has not yet been formally established and is still ad
within the MOE.         hoc.
B. Quality Improvement
1. Teacher       a. Train 4 staff of the     Three persons were trained at the masters level in
Training             DTEAA in the training of  Science, Mathematics and Social Studies.
teachers
b. Train 8-12 persons at the    Seventeen persons trained at the Bachelors level
under-graduate level for   (Maths - 10, General Science - 3, Biology - 2,
teaching secondary      Chemistry - I and Environmental Science - I).
Science and Mathematics  Three of these returned fellows are also pursuing
training at the certificate level in a graduate teacher-
training programme at the SALCC.
c. During the summers,      Just over 700 teachers were trained at summer
upgrade about 300       workshops. Additionally, 180 principals and senior
Primary teachers in the    teachers are undergoing a one year (part time)
core subjects and about    management training at the post graduate level with
225 to a more advanced   the UWI-IOB.
level.



14
Component/Sub-            Targets                       Achievements/Comments
Component
2. Curriculum    a. Revise curricula and    Revised curriculum from K-6 introduced in all
Development         syllabi for Primary and    Primary schools.
lower secondary
b. Employ a curriculum     Consultancy completed satisfactorily
expert to assist
c. Train 4 Curriculum      Three officers trained, one each in Science,
Officers in the core   Mathematics and Social Studies. No one was
subject areas          identified to take up the Language Arts fellowship.
MOE proposed that the training be converted to one in
Instructional Design instead. It was however, too late
to accommodate this under the project.
d. Supply science kits and    Kits were supplied to 33 schools to complement the
related storage facilities   earlier provisions by a UNESCO sponsored project.
to 84 primary schools
e. Supply supplementary    Done. Consumables have all been used up. There is
science equipment and   need to perform inventory of equipment and to study
supplies to 8 upgraded    impact on science teaching in those schools.
existing secondary
schools.
f. Supply a set of basic   Sets of reference books were purchased and will be
textbooks to each school   distributed in January 2001.
for use by teachers,
g. Establish computer labs in  Labs were established at Castries Comprehensive,
three schools, one new  Corinth and Anse Ger Secondary Schools. The
and two existing and   Library at Babonneau Secondary was modified as a
evaluate their         resource centre and also equipped with computers.
contribution to leaming
and achievement
3. Production    a. Train two staff- one in    One person was trained at the Diploma level in Art
and Procurement     general editing and     Editing and Publishing under the Project but stayed on
of Educational      publishing and one in art  to pursue Masters. Another was trained at the Masters
Materials           editing and publishing  level in General Editing and Publishing.
b. Revise policy and       Draft policy on publishing produced and under
procedures in procuring    consideration. There is no revised policy on textbooks
textbooks and in        yet but a Committee has been established to advise on
publishing             textbook matters.
c. Improve production      Relevant equipment and software were procured
capacity, including
Desktop Publishing
d. Employ two experts - one  Not achieved. Short listed consultants were non-
in publishing and one in  responsive in their bids. Other difficulties relate to
production.            ongoing major shifts at CAMDU.
e. Reduce materials pilot  New materials piloted over I year. Work on
period; accelerate      production of text books and teaching materials is
production of books or    ongoing
teaching material



15
Component/Sub-             Targets                       Achievements/Comments
Component
4. Educational    a. Train one person in     Fellow trained at the Masters level in Testing and
Testing and          Testing                 Evaluation with additional attachment at CXC.
Measurement                                  Another officer of the ETX attended regional
workshop in dyslexia; Also, two officers participated
in stud tour of testing and assessment in Brazil.
b. Employ one expert to help  No expert was employed. It was determined that
establish the Educational  expert services might be used in other aspects as the
Testing and Examinations  UJnit was already performing the Testing function.
Unit                    __._                            .
c. Design new tests for Stage  Done. The format of the examinations has changed
3, Std. 2, and Form 3   from year to year but a policy on an agreed format hias
now been established.
d. Improve existing tests at   Ongoing
Primary level
e. Train item writers, school  No training for item writing or test design was
staff in using and      organised. Workshops in interpreting test results are
interpreting test results    ongoing.
-and in test design. _
5. School        a. Train two persons in     Three persons were trained at the masters level - two
Supervision          school supervision      in school supervision and one in School Social Work
an additional person pursued short-term (3 months)
training in school supervision.
b. Construct and Establish    New Office completed for over 18 months but has not
new District Education  been occupied due to problems experienced in the
Offices in Vieux-Fort,    installation of utilities; Choiseul Office expanded and
expand one Choiseul,    'old' section rehabilitated. The Micoud and Castries
equip and strengthen    (District I) Oflfices were also refurbished. Office
operations of two existing  Equipment and supplies were purchased for Soufriere
Soufriere and Micoud    and Micoud and for all of the other six district offices
District Office         under a restructured school supervision system.
c. Employ expert in         Done by New Mexico State University.
Effective Schools
d. Establish regular formal   Ongoing, but only involves the District Education
supervisory visits to all    Officers.
Primary schools at least
once per year
e. Conduct seminars,    Ongoing at already established offices. Districts
workshops and other  awaiting their own office accommodation use school
training sessions at   facilities and MOE central office accommodation.
District Education
Offices and institute
regular use of office
resources by school
staff.



16
Component/Sub-             Targets                        Achievements/Comments
Component                                 l
C. Expa ding Access
1. Secondary     a. Design and construct new   All four schools completed and operational.
School Expansion     schools at Soufriere,
Laborie, Anse Ger and
Babonneau
b. Equip and staff schools    All schools now almost full equipped with only
technology equipment left to be installed. All Schools
are fully staffed and attained optimum capacity in
operations.
c. Prepare lists, tender and    Done
purchase items required
d. Transfer, as far as      Done in some situations but has not been formally
possible, Project       instituted.
techniques to Ministry's
regular non-project
procurement process
I Rehabilitation   a. Establish the project  Nineteen primary schools were rehabilitated. Works
of Primary           support programme of    included re-roofing of schools construction of toilet
schools              rehabilitation and repair   blocks, drains and staircases, paving of grounds and
for the five-year       fencing of school property
implementation period
b. Conduct civil works      Done
according to schedule.
c. Transfer project         Achieved to some extent. Plant and Equipment Unit
procurement methods to   is yet to adopt fully the methods for procuring civil
MOE operations, as      works used under the Project.
appropriate and as
feasible.



17
Appendix B
Beneficiaries: Fellowship and Short Term Training
BENEFICIARY         AREA OF STUDY   |   TRAINING             DURATION              REMARKS
(TRAINING LEVEL) I  INSTITUTION    AND TIMING 
World Bank-financed
Project Management         New Mexico State   2 weeks,        Formerly Project Manager,
University, USA    July 1996
Marcellus
Albertin        Study Tour                Participation/      3 wks.          Dep CEO/ Planning &
Australia, New     October 2000    Development
Zealand, Singapore,
etc.
Setym, Canada      1 month,        Formerly Procurement
Marie-Grace     Project Management                            August 2000     Office now Project
Auguste                                                                       Manager
Attachment Rose    2 wks.           Project Manager
_______________                            Project, Jamaica    May 1996
Internal Audit            Part time, distance    I year 2000/01
Jonathan                                  education                           Project Accountant
Heywood         Project Management        Attachment Rose     2 wks.
Project, Jamaica    May 1996
Anna-Marie      Works Management          ILO, Turin, Italy   I Month,        Procurement Officer,
Myers                                                         May, 2000       Corporate Planning
Camillus F.     Int. Purchasing & Materials  New York, USA    2 Wks,          Procurement Assistant
Haynes          Supply Management                             Sept. 2000      Corporate Planning, yet to
be appointed
Shirley Raynold  Financial Management     University of Hull,   I year,       Accountant at MOE now
(Masters)                 UK                  1996/97         transferred to other
Government Ministry.
Esther Chitolie-  Statistics & Computing  George Washington   I 12 years      Statistician,
Joseph          (Masters)                 U, USA              1997/98         Corporate Planning
Urban Preville   Microsoft Certification  St. Lucia           10 wks.         Terminated employment
Systems Engineer                              Jan, 1998       with MOE soon after
training.
Philma          ACSD Aptec Certified      Local Training (part  6 Months,     Statistician,
Charlery        Solution Developer        time)               July 2000       Corporate Planning
Peter Joseph    Educational Planning      University of       I year          Planning Officer
(Masters)                 Bradford, UK        1999/00         Corporate Planning
Educational Planning      Univ. of Malta,     I year
Marcus Edward  (Post Graduate Diploma)    Malta               1997/98         Planning Officer
Seminar/ Education Reform   Trinidad & Tobago   3 days.       Corporate Planning
April, 1999
Seminar/Education Reform    Trinidad & Tobago   3 days.
Didacus Jules                                                 April, 1999
Study Tour                Participation/      3 wks.          Permanent Secretary, MOE
Australia, New     October 2000
Zealand, Singapore,
etc.
Mario Michel    Seminar/ Education Reform   Trinidad & Tobago   3 days.       Minister,
(Hon )                                                    _  April, 1999      MOE



18
BENEFICIARY    AREA OF STUDY                  TRAINING    DURATION                     REMARKS
(TRAINING LEVEL)         INSTITUTION        AND TIMING
Lera Pascal     Educational Administration   Cave Hill (UWI),   I year           Principal,
Barbados            1998/99          Sir Ira Simmons Seconday
Julian Delauney  Educational Administration   Cave Hill (UWI),   I year          Education Officer
(Masters)                  Barbados             1999/00         District 11
Rowan Seon      Educational Administration   Cave Hill (UWI),   I year           Vice Principal,
(Masters)                  Barbados             1999/00         St. Mary's College
Rufina          Study Tour/ Educational     Participation/ Brazil  I Week,       Testing and Evaluations
Frederick       Assessment                                      Oct 1998         Officer, Exams Unit
George James    Study Tour/ Educational     Participation/ Brazil  I Week,       Registrar of Exams,
Assessment                                      Oct.1998        Exams Unit
Meriam          HRM                         Local               9 Months         Secretary, Human
Henville        (Executive Diploma)                             Feb - Nov 00    Resource Management
Unit
Margaret        HRM                         Local               15 Months Mar  Senior Executive Officer,
Vitalis         (Executive Diploma)                             00-June 01       Human Resource
Management Unit
Irene Alexander  HRM                        Local               9 Months Feb -  HRM Officer, Human
(Executive Diploma)                             Nov 00          Resource Management
Unit
Winston         Science Education           Bristol, UK         1 year           Curriculum Officer,
B lanchard      (Masters)                                       1995/96          CAMDU
June Sifflet    Social Studies              Bristol, UK          I year          Curriculum Officer,
(Masters)                                       1995/96         CAMDU
Joseph Serieux   Mathematics                Bristol, UK          I year          Curriculum Officer,
(Masters)                                       1996/97         CAMDU
Betty Combie    Measurement & Evaluation   OISE, Toronto,        I year          Testing & Measurement
(Masters)                  Canada               1995/96         Officer, Exams Unit
Training also involved an
attachment to CXC
Lawrence        School Supervision          Bristol, UK         1995/96          Education Officer,
Constantine     (Masters)                                                         District VIII
Anthony Alcide  School Supervision          Univ of London       10 wks          Education Officer,
(Institute of Ed.) -    April, 1999  District III
__________                       ~~UK
Marcia Polius    School Social Work         University of       8 months         School Attendance Office
Toronto, Canada     Sept 1998
Maryiene John   School Supervision          Bristol, UK         1 year           Education Officer
1996/97         District VII
Deborah         Publishing & Book           Plymouth/Exeter     1 year           Editing Specialist,
Lambert         Production                  UK                  1996/97          CAMDU
(Masters)
Aldrek          Art Editing & Publishing    Plymouth/Exeter      1 year          Production Specialist,
Mondesir        (Masters)                   UK                   1995/96         CAMDU  Fellowship was
for Post Graduate Diploma
but fellow continued into
Masters programme at own
._________________                    expense.
Clemina         Mathematics                 Univ. of Bristol, UK   I year        Lecturer, Mathematics -
Annius-James    (Masters)                                        1997/98         SALCC
Justine Serieux-  Science Education         Sheffield U,         I year          Lecturer, Science -
Burt            (Masters)                   UK                   1997/98         SALCC



19
BENEFICIARY         AREA OF STUDY            TRAINING         DURATION              REMARKS
(TRAINING LEVEL)        INSTITUTION    AND TIMING
Hilaria Girard    Social Studies           Bristol, UK         I year          Lecturer, Social Studies -
.| (Masters)                              .-  1996/97          SALCC
CDB Financed
Nicholas           BSc Natural Science     Cave Hill, Barbados  I year         Entrepot Sec. (Out of
Emmanuel           (Physics)                                   1996/97         school for one year from
Oct. '99 to pursue further
studies)
Philomene          BSc. Mathematics       -Mona, Jamaica       2years          Transferred from Sir Ira
Alexander                                                      1996/98         Simmons Sec to Exams
Unit for medical reasons.
Celsa Glasgow      BSc. Natural Science    Cave Hill, Barbados  2 years        Castries Comprehensive
(Chemistry)                                 1996/98         Secondary
Harold Lashley     BSc. Environmental      University of       3 years         Micoud Secondary
Science                 Guyana              1996/99
Margaret Ismond    BSc Mathematics         Cave Hill, Barbados  3 years        Micoud Secondary;
1996/99         Currently pursuing the
graduate teacher training
programme (part-time)
Tessa Birch-Smith   BSc. Biology           Cave Hill, Barbados  2 years        St. Joseph's Convent
1997/99         (Currently pursuing further
._________________                                             studies in the  USA)
Patricia Murray    BSc. Chemistry          Cave Hill, Barbados  3 years        St. Joseph's Convent
1997/00
Myrtene Cenac      BSc Mathematics         Cave Hill, Barbados  3 years        Corinth Secondary
1997/00
Linda Deliah       BSc. Biology            Cave Hill, Barbados  3 years        Castries Comprehensive
1997/99         Secondary Started
Graduate Certificate
teacher training but
dropped out.
Leralyn Hunte      BSc. General Science    Cave Hill, Barbados  2 years        Sir Ira Simmons
1997/99         Secondary.
Vern Nelson        BSc. Mathematics        Cave Hill, Barbados  2 years        Leon Hess Comprehensive
1997/99         Secondary.
Winston Elibox     BSc. Mathematics        St Augustin Campus  I year          Corinth Secondary.
Trinidad & Tobago   1998/99         (Out on further training)
Kendal Khodra      BSc Mathematics         Cave Hill, Barbados  3 years        Entrepot Secondary.
1997/00
Shirley Pierre     BSc Mathematics         Cave Hill, Barbados  3 years        Vieux Fort Campus A
1997/00
Melvina Marius     BSc. Mathematics        - Cave Hill,        2 years         Corinth Secondary
Barbados            1998/00
Sinovia Moonie     BSc Mathematics         Cave Hill, Barbados  3 years        Vieux Fort Campus B
1998/01         (To complete in 2001)
Janelle Augustin   BSc Mathematics         St Augustin         3 years         Carmen Renee Memorial
Campus, Trinidad &   1998/01        (To complete in 2001
ITobago



20
Appendix C
Incremental Staff Positions under Reform Process
POSITION TITLE              UNIT TO WHICH ASSIGNED                         REMARKS
Project Manager            Project Management Unit (PMU)                   Assigned
Procurement Officer          Project Management Unit (PMU                   Assigned
Procurement Assistant         Project Management Unit (PMU     Assigned (still to be appointed)
Accountant 11             Project Management Unit (PMU      Assigned (Appointment as Accountant I)
Clerk/Typist                 Corporate Planning Unit       Assigned to entire Corporate Planning
Unit (including Deputy CEO Planning &
Statistician Ill             CorporatePanningUitFormerlyofDataManagemeDeveUopnent)
Statistician III             Corporate Planning Unit        Formerly of Data Management Unit
Statistician I               Corporate Planning Unit       Formerly of Data Management Unit
Statistical Clerk III           Corporate Planning Unit       Formerly of Data Management Unit
Three (3) Curriculum Officers.      Curriculum and materials       Total number of incumbents
Mathematics, Social Studies; and    Development Unit (CAMDU)        (2) Mathematics
Science                                                      (1) Social Studies, (1) Science
Clerk/Typist                Curriculum and materials                     Assigned
Development Unit (CAMDU)
Two (2) Education Officers,    Educational Testing, Evaluation &                Assigned
Testing                      Examinations Unit
Two (2) Executive Officers     Educational Testing, Evaluation &                Assigned
Examinations Unit
Handyman          ~~~Education Testing Evaluation &               Assigned
Examinations Unit
Financial Analyst             Office of Financial Analyst    Assigned, Person Trained under the
.  _                           ~~~~~~~~~~~Project was not appointed to the post
Two (2) Secretaries to Deputy  Offices of Deputy CEO Education &    One Secretary assigned to Corporate
Chief Education Officers (CEOs)     Development Office (EPDO)       Planning, also serving Dep. CEO/
& Deputy CEO Instruction,      Planning & Development.
respectively            One Secretary assigned to Office of Dep.
CEO /Instruction (Formerly served
Chief Education Officer)
Two (2) District Education       District Offices VII and VIII   Total of eight (8) new District Offices
Officers (for new Districts)                                     and eight (8) officers through
Restructuring of the MOE.
Education Officer Secondary   Office of the Deputy CEO Instruction   Post is disestablished through
Restructuring of the MOE
Now replaced by post of Education
Officer, District 11
Deputy CEO/Instruction      Office of the Deputy CEO Instruction   Imminent appointment of Officer to the
post of Deputy CEO/Instruction by
_____________________________________________________________  Teaching Service Commission



21
Appendix D
Summary of Expert Services: Programmed and Delivered
ESTIMATED           ACTUAL
EXPERT SERVICES         COST/ USD          COST /USD                  REMARKS
(Programmed    (Actual Level
Level of Effort)    of Effort in)
A. Sector Planning & Institutional Strengthening
Procurement (Project        25,600           77,311.20     Commenced April 1997
Management)               (2 months)       (2 3/4 months)    Completed December 1997 Additional
time needed to accommodate the scope
_____ ____ ____ ____ __  __ ____ ____ _ __   of  services
Project Management         128,000           39,000 .00    Commenced April 1999
(8 months)       (I 1/2 months)    Completed October 1999. Project was
well under way by the time the
services were secured.
Data Management             78,000           44,860.00     Commenced March 1998
(6 months)        (4 months)     Completed July 1999. Scope of work
was in fact completed in reduced time.
Education Planning          78,000           64,630.00     Commenced September 1997
(4 months)        (4 months)     Terminated January 12, 1999. DFID
sponsored consultants helped to
complete the ESDP.
General                     51,000            35,800       Commenced June 11, 1996
Administration/Manage     (6mnths)           (4 months)    Completed November 1996
ment Audit
B. Qualitative Improvement
School Supervision          38,000           58,349.75     Commenced April 1997
(3 months)        (3 months)     Completed October 1998
Educational Testing &      119,000           38,800.00     (Commenced January 1999)
Measurement               (9 months)       (I 3/4 months)    Completed December 1999
The Unit argued for other forms of
technical assistance, e.g. study tours
and therefore did not support the idea
of additional expert services.
Curriculum                  52,000           72,942.00      Commenced March 1997
Development               (4 months)        (4 months)      Completed July 1998
Production &                25,500           21,390.90      August 1999. Only Author ware
Procurement of            (2 months)        (3/4 month)    Publishing undertaken as per stated
Educational Materials                                      requirements of CAMDU
Text Book Publishing        76,500         (Not utilised)    Non-responsive bids. Textbook
(6 months)                       Production and Procurement services
were combined, supposedly to be
delivered by one expert.



22
Appendix E
Staffing, Enrolment and Pupil/Teacher Ratios in Secondary Schools in St. Lucia,
1994/95 and 2000/01
-         ,94= 5.- 2000101
Secondar Schoof                                                                          ea Total   P   t  T   Pup-roa
; ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ o -i X         V;;-bX    --:-Staff: ISai- l Ra    :RRoIV -Staff-- -:-Ratio:Rf
St. Joseph's Convent                  702        39        18       709      30        24
Castries Comprehensive                768        60        13       832      49        17
Piaye Secondary*                                                   484       25        19
Choiseul Secondary                    512        30        17      466       27        17
Corinth Secondary                     680        40        17       770      39        20
Entrepot Secondary                    631        35        18      712       36        20
Vieux-Fort Comprehensive - Campus A   560        30        19       589      27        22
Clendon Mason Memorial                640        38        17       597      30        20
Micoud Secondary                      815        48        17       849      42        20
Leon Hess Comprehensive               753        45        17       784      43        18
Anse Ger*                          _ __                             491      25        20
Soufriere Comprehensive               60i        34        18      720       39        18
Sir Ira Simmons                       845        48        18       713      38        19
Vieux-Fort Comprehensive - Campus B    820       65        13       986      64        15
Vide Bouteille Secondary              633        35        18       621      35        18
Bocage Secondary**                                                  595      29        21
George Charles Secondary              620        36        17       700      34        21
Babonneau*            ,_=                                           412      21        20
St Mary's College                     610        36        17       657      34        19
~~~~~~~~~~~~X_ _
Notes: * New schools constructed under BERP
* * Upgraded from a Senior Primary school



23
Appendix F
Project Costs By Components (US'OOO Dollars)
Project Component           Appraisal        Actual/        Percentage of
Estimate     Latest Estimate     Appraisal
Sector Planning and Institution Strengt hening
Educational Planning
347              166              48%
Data Management
221              137              62%
Project Management
245              246             100%
General Administration
222              429             193%
Sub-Total                     1,035              978              95%
Qualitative Improvements
Teacher Training
957             1,081            113%
Curiculum Development
750              597              80%
Testing and Measurement
359              187              52%
Educational Materials
462               98              21%
School Supervision
547              896             164%
Sub-Total                    3,075             2,859              93%
Expanding Access to Schools
Construction of Four Secondary
Schools                                   8,251           10,394             126%
Rehabilitation of Primary Schools
476              400              84%
Sub-Total                    8,727            10,794             124%
Totals                                   12,837            14,631            114%



24
Appendix G
Disbursement Schedules (Cumulative)
A World Bank Component
______________         1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Appraisal Estimate
________________   2,252   5,876   6,410   6,574   6,726
Actual Expenditures
_Actal xpeditre          150     419   2,543   3,970   4,936   6,153
Grant                              85         l
7,000  :                    :      A -ppraisa i
6,000         .                    Estimate
5,000
4,000    /                         Actual
3,000   i     .                    Expenditure
2,000  *;.
1,000       /                      Grant
B Government of St Lucia
______________         1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Appraisal Estimate
Apprasal Etimat_         926   2,376   2,770   2,924   3,050
Actual Expenditures
Actual Expenditures       25     175   1,151   2,668   3,846   4,071   4,422
i5,000  -.--Appraisal 
4,500                               Estmate
4,000
3,500                              Actual
, D L~~~~~~~Ependiture
3 000  1                        K
500
NB:B Years represent National Fiscal years ie April to March of the following year.



Appendix H
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US $Million)
Procurement Method                          Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           Appraisal Estimate                        Actual/Latest Estimate
ICB  LCB  Consultng Other N.B.F. Total  ICB  LCB  LIB     IS Consultng  LS  N.B.F. Total
1. Works            3.51  0.24    0.00 0.46   3.00   7.21  2.40 0.40 0.00  0.00    0.00 0.00   5.99    8.79
2. Goods            1.24 0.40    0.00 0.89  0.00   2.53 0.73 0.00 0.14  0.49        0.00 0.75   0.00   2.10
3. Expert Services  0.00 0.00    0.65 0.00  0.00   0.65 0.00 0.00 0.00  0.57    0.00 0.00   0.00  o0.57
4. TA Works         0.00 0.00    0.42  0.00  0.31   0.73 0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00    0.31  0.00   0.41    0.72
5. Training         0.00 0.00    0.00 0.00  0.31   0.31 0.00 0.00 0.00  0.16    0.00 0.00   0.26   0.42
6. Studies          0.00 0.00    0.00 0.00  0.18  0.18 0.00 0.00 0.00  0.001    0.00 0.00   0.04   0.04
7. Fellowships      0.00 0.00    0.00 0.61   0.54   1.15 0.00 0.00 0.00  0.52    0.00 0.00   0.61    1.13
8. Maintenance      0.00 0.00    0.00 0.00  0.08   0.08 0.00 0.00 0.00  0.00    0.00 0.00   0.02   0.02
Total             4.75 0.64     1.07  1.96  4.42  12.84 3.13 0.40 0.14   1.74    0.31  0.75   7.33 13.79*
NB:  FELLOWSHIPS COMPONENT UNDER NBF = FINANCED BY CDB
* This table is still work in progress as total disbursements to date are in fact USDI4.631m as shown in Annexes F and I.



Appendix I
Project Costs By Components and By Financier (USD '000)
Project Component        Financier/ Appraisal Estimate         Financier/Actual       Percentage of Appraisal
(Latest Estimate)   _
____________  _____jIBRD /IDA| GOSL    CDB   Total IIBRD/IDA  GOSL I CDB I Total  IBRD/IDAI GOSL I CDB I Total
Sector Plannina and Institution Strengthening
Educational Planning           217       130           347      134      32            166    62%   25%              48%
Data Management                216         5           221      136       1            137    63%   16%              62%
Project Management             240         5           245      243       3            246   101%   60%             100%
General Administration         217         5           222      382      18    29      429   176%  363%             193%
Sub-Total             890       145     0                             29             101%   37%             95%
____________   __  _  ___   7,035 __ 895         54            978    _
Qualitative Imorovements
Teacher Training               119       295   544    958       173    299   609    1,081   145%  101%/  1112%    113%
Curiculum Development          734        16           750      566      31            597    77%  196%              80%
Testing and Measurement        316        44           360      187                    187    59%   0%               52%
Educational Materials          357       106           463       98                     98    27%    0%              21%
School Supervision             443       104           547      771     125            896   174%  120%             164%
Sub- Total           1969       565   544                            609              91%         112%      93%
_________                                3,078   1, 795    455__         2,860 .___ ___               ___
Expanding Access to Schools
Construction of 4 Secondary   3511      2222  2517   8,250   3,163   3,813  3419  10,394    90%  172%  136%    126%
Schools             _                                                             
Rehabilitation of Primary  r   358       1             476      300|                   400    84%   85%              84%
Schools     _        _   J __    _ _  _  _      _            _                          _   _
Sub-Total            3869      2340  2517                           3419             89%  167%  136%    124%
__ ___ 1__ __ 8,726   3,4631  3,9 3        10,794 ___



MAP SECTION






IBRD 26505
RE -     -f  -                      fF4ttr  AaetV0       
RpS5;              g42 th- ffrJ                                                       (>s,TIOUA rd lA                      r A
J                                                                                                    ATLANTIC
CARIBBEAN                                   OCAN                                                (                            OCEAN
SEA                 GGErIAaES.                     1Is0'                              *aL CIA4,
)j          <sopaim(Ntj                                                                                                 E e;peraance Harbor
i C j ~V E N E Z U E L A ,r <_
S T.  L U C I A                                        CASIIRIqS                                                R q
PPRiMARY ROADS
- - --SECONDARY ROADS
~/ Grand Apse
14 00'                MAJOR TOWN                                             r-                                                         Ry -
O     SELECTED TOWNS                      Ctd s Sac  J)r    d
      A}sIPORsTS                          u de 5                                             @
* PORTS
<->--RIVERS
PARISH BOUNDARtIES
INTE11NATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ond dPOr Boy
3                                                                                           ~~-                          fztf ;l-6tVS
Port Poros tn
CARIBB3EAN --
SEA                 Sasefrire Ba           \                                                                        AsfC  Chapeau
Anse de& Pi tns
3345                                                                                                         t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,45-
O                4         I MILES                   trbofrrie $oy: -                    /
0   3   2   3   4.  5   6   7   # KILOMETERsS-
The 6oSraies, 4ofors, dninotions w ond ay                                                                         tslan idfsrmo-
shown on this mop do not imply, on the part of Fh Wortd aik Gr.p,
any pJdgment on koe /o staots of ony territory, or oan endrsmet..
or acceptance of such boundaries,
DECEMBER 199



