Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NO. 22788
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Basic Education Project)
between
SAINT LUCIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
 on its own behalf and as Administrator
of Grant Funds provided by JAPAN
Dated May 9, 1994
Page  2
TRUST FUND NO. 22788
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1994, between SAINT LUCIA (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT acting on its own behalf (the Bank) and as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between 
Japan and the Bank and International Development Association (the 
Association), Japan has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank 
and the Association have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available 
by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported by the 
Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions 
of such letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant 
out of said grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the 
technical assistance described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the Technical 
Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth; 
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient has requested the Bank to carry out the 
Technical Assistance;
WHEREAS (D) the Bank has agreed to carry out the Technical Assistance 
on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions; Term of Technical Assistance
Section 1.01. The Technical Assistance shall be undertaken by consultants 
(the Consultants) who shall, as far as practicable, include Consultants with 
expertise in the following areas:
(a)
Educational planning and management;
(b)
school mapping/location planning;
Page  3
(c)
school architecture, engineering and maintenance;
(d)
educational furniture, equipment and supplies;
(e)
teacher training;
(f)
curriculum development;
(g)
procurement and production of educational materials;
(h)
educational data management;
(i)
financial management;
(j)
educational testing and measurement;
(k)
economics of education; and
(l)
school supervision/assessment.
Section 1.02. As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"CDB" means the Caribbean Development Bank, a regional 
development bank established by and operating under an Agreement entered 
into at Kingston, Jamaica, on October 18, 1969 by the governments of the several 
States and territories which were signatories thereto;
(b)
"CEE" means the Common Entrance Examination;
(c)
"Consultants" includes individual consultants as well as any 
consulting firm that provides any of the experts referred to in Section 1.01;
(d)
"CXC" means the Caribbean Examination Council;
(e)
"MOECL" means the Recipient’s Ministry of Education, Culture 
and Labour; and
(f)
"yen" and "¥" mean the currency of Japan.
Section 1.03. The Consultants are expected to commence their services on 
April 1, 1994 and to provide a total of 39 person-months of service between that 
time and June 30, 1995.
Page  4
ARTICLE II
Responsibilities of the Bank and the Administrator
Section 2.01. The Grant to be provided by Japan for the Technical 
Assistance shall be in an amount of thirty-six million yen (¥36,000,000).
Section 2.02. The Administrator shall utilize the Grant to finance the 
following expenditures: (a) in connection with the services of the Consultants:
(i)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
(ii)
international and local travel expenses; and
(iii)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and 
reports, incurred by the Consultants in foreign and local 
currency in the performance of their services; and
(b)
organization and operation of a symposium.
Section 2.03. The Bank shall make reasonable efforts to secure the services 
of the Consultants.
Section 2.04. The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the 
Consultants shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done 
according to the Bank's applicable procedures.
ARTICLE III
Responsibilities of the Recipient
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall cooperate with the Administrator, the 
Bank and the Consultants to ensure that the Technical Assistance is carried out 
promptly and effectively and, for this purpose, shall issue appropriate 
instructions to its officials, agents and representatives.
Section 3.02. The Recipient shall:
(a)
make arrangements for all personnel of the Consultants assigned to 
the Technical Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent 
residents of the Recipient's territories) and all dependents of such personnel 
promptly to be provided with any necessary entry and exit visas, residence and 
work permits, exchange documents and travel documents required for their stay 
Page  5
in the Recipient’s territories during the duration of the Technical Assistance;
(b)
facilitate clearance through its customs of any equipment, materials 
and supplies required for the Technical Assistance and any personal effects of the 
personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance (other than 
nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient’s territories) 
and the dependents of such personnel;
(c)
permit the Consultants to bring into, and withdraw from, the 
Recipient’s territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for purposes 
related to the Technical Assistance;
(d)
permit the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical 
Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the 
Recipient’s territories) and the dependents of such personnel to bring into, and 
withdraw from, the Recipient’s territories reasonable amounts of foreign 
currency for their personal use; and
(e)
exempt the Consultants and the personnel of the Consultants 
assigned to the Technical Assistance from (or the Recipient shall pay on behalf of 
the Consultants and such personnel) any taxes, duties, fees, levies and other 
impositions imposed under the laws and regulations in effect in the Recipient’s 
territories on the Consultants and such personnel in respect of:
(i)
any payments whatsoever made to the Consultants and such 
personnel (other than nationals of the Recipient or 
permanent residents of the Recipient’s territories) in 
connection with the carrying out of the Technical Assistance;
(ii)
any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the 
Recipient’s territories by the Consultants for the purpose of 
carrying out the Technical Assistance and which, after 
having been brought into such territories, will be 
subsequently withdrawn therefrom by them;
(iii)
any equipment, material and supplies brought into the 
Recipient’s territories by the Consultants for the purpose of 
carrying out the Technical Assistance and which will be 
consumed therein or become the property of the Recipient; 
and
(iv)
any property brought into the Recipient’s territories by the 
Consultants or such personnel (other than nationals of the 
Page  6
Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient’s 
territories) or the dependents of such personnel for their 
personal use and which will be consumed therein or 
subsequently withdrawn therefrom by them upon their 
respective departure from the Recipient’s territories, 
provided that the Consultants, such personnel and their 
dependents shall follow the usual customs procedures of the 
Recipient in importing property into the Recipient’s 
territories.
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any 
claims arising out of, or resulting from, the Technical Assistance that may be 
brought by third parties against the Administrator or the Bank. The Recipient 
shall indemnify the Administrator and the Bank against any costs, claims, 
damages or liabilities arising out of, or resulting from, any acts or omissions in 
connection with the Technical Assistance, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of the Administrator or the Bank, as the case 
may be.
Section 3.04. For purposes of carrying out the Technical Assistance, the 
Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, the data, 
services, facilities and equipment set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of 
charge, such counterpart personnel to be selected by the Recipient, with the 
advice of the Bank and the Consultants, as are set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. If any member of the counterpart personnel fails to perform 
adequately any work assigned to him by the Consultants that is consistent with 
the position occupied by such member, the Consultants may request the 
replacement of such member, and the Recipient shall not unreasonably refuse to 
act upon such request.
ARTICLE IV
Reports and Other Matters
Section 4.01. The Recipient, the Bank and the Administrator shall, from 
time to time, at the request of any party, exchange views on the Technical 
Assistance and consult on any reports prepared by the Consultants and the 
implementation of any recommendations made in those reports.
Section 4.02. The Bank and the Administrator may use any reports 
prepared by the Consultants for any purpose that the Bank or the Administrator, 
Page  7
as the case may be, may consider appropriate but those reports may not be made 
public except to CDB or by agreement between the Recipient, the Bank and the 
Administrator.
ARTICLE V
Enforceability of Agreement; Failure
to Exercise Rights; Arbitration
Section 5.01. The rights and obligations of the Bank, the Administrator and 
the Recipient under this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance 
with their terms notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision 
thereof to the contrary. Neither the Bank nor the Administrator nor the Recipient 
shall be entitled in any proceeding under this Article to assert any claim that any 
provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable because of any provision 
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
Section 5.02. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, 
power or remedy accruing to any party under this Agreement upon any default 
shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver 
thereof or an acquiescence in such default. No action of such party in respect of 
any default, or any acquiescence by it in any default, shall affect or impair any 
right, power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent 
default.
Section 5.03. (a) Any controversy between the parties to this Agreement, 
and any claim by any such party against any other such party arising under this 
Agreement which has not been settled by agreement of the parties shall be 
submitted to arbitration by an Arbitral Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b)
The parties to such arbitration shall be the Bank and the 
Administrator on the one side and the Recipient on the other side.
(c)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as 
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed jointly by the Bank and the 
Administrator; a second arbitrator shall be appointed by the Recipient; and the 
third arbitrator (hereinafter sometimes called the Umpire) shall be appointed by 
agreement of the parties or, if they shall not agree, by the President of the 
International Court of Justice or, failing appointment by said President, by the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations. If either side shall fail to appoint an 
arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any 
arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Section shall resign, die or become 
unable to act, a successor arbitrator shall be appointed in the same manner as 
Page  8
herein prescribed for the appointment of the original arbitrator and such 
successor shall have all the powers and duties of such original arbitrator.
(d)
An arbitration proceeding may be instituted under this Section 
upon notice by the party instituting such proceeding to the other party. Such 
notice shall contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or 
claim to be submitted to arbitration, the nature of the relief sought and the name 
of the arbitrator appointed by the party instituting such proceeding. Within 
thirty days after such notice, the other party shall notify the party instituting the 
proceeding the name of the arbitrator appointed by such other party.
(e)
If within sixty days after the notice instituting the arbitration 
proceeding, the parties shall not have agreed upon an Umpire, any party may 
request the appointment of an Umpire as provided in paragraph (c) of this 
Section.
(f)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall 
be fixed by the Umpire. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall determine where 
and when it shall sit.
(g)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to its 
competence and shall, subject to the provisions of this Section and except as the 
parties shall otherwise agree, determine its procedure. All decisions of the 
Arbitral Tribunal shall be by majority vote.
(h)
The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to all parties a fair hearing and 
shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An 
award signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award of 
such Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each 
party. Any such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this 
Section shall be final and binding upon the parties to this Agreement. Each party 
shall abide by and comply with any such award rendered by the Arbitral 
Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
(i)
The parties shall fix the amount of the remuneration of the 
arbitrators and such other persons as shall be required for the conduct of the 
arbitration proceedings. If the parties shall not agree on such amount before the 
Arbitral Tribunal shall convene, the Arbitral Tribunal shall fix such amount as 
shall be reasonable under the circumstances. The Bank, the Administrator and 
the Recipient shall each defray its own expenses in the arbitration proceedings. 
The costs of the Arbitral Tribunal shall be divided between and borne equally by 
the Bank and the Administrator on the one side and the Recipient on the other. 
Any question concerning the division of the costs of the Arbitral Tribunal or the 
Page  9
procedure for payment of such costs shall be determined by the Arbitral 
Tribunal.
(j)
The provisions of arbitration set forth in this Section shall be in lieu 
of any other procedure for the settlement of controversies between the parties to 
this Agreement or of any claim by any such party against any other such party 
arising thereunder.
(k)
If, within thirty days after counterparts of the award shall have 
been delivered to the parties, the award shall not be complied with, any party 
may: (i) enter judgment upon, or institute a proceeding to enforce, the award in 
any court of competent jurisdiction against any other party; (ii) enforce such 
judgment by execution; or (iii) pursue any other appropriate remedy against 
such other party for the enforcement of the award and the provisions of this 
Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Section shall not authorize any 
entry of judgment or enforcement of the award against any party that is a 
member of the Bank except as such procedure may be available otherwise than 
by reason of the provisions of this Section.
(l)
Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding 
under this Section or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award 
rendered pursuant to this Section shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall 
be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand 
or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required 
or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address specified in this 
Agreement or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The parties to this 
Agreement waive any and all other requirements for the service of any such 
notice or process.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date, Suspension
and Termination
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by 
the parties.
Section 6.02. The Recipient may at any time request the Bank and the 
Administrator in writing to terminate the Technical Assistance. Whether or not 
the Recipient has made such a request, the Administrator may at any time 
suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Technical Assistance if any of the 
Page  10
following circumstances shall have occurred and be continuing:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to make payment of principal or 
interest or any other amount due to the Bank or the Association: (i) under any 
loan or guarantee agreement between the Recipient and the Bank; or (ii) under 
any development credit agreement between the Recipient and the Association; or 
(iii) in consequence of any guarantee or other financial obligation of any kind 
extended by the Bank to any third party with the agreement of the Recipient.
(b)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any obligation under this 
Agreement.
(c)
The Bank or the Association shall have suspended in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under any loan agreement 
with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the Association 
because of a failure by the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement or any guarantee agreement with the Bank.
(d)
Any event shall have arisen that, in the opinion of the Bank or the 
Administrator, as the case may be, interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
successful implementation of the Technical Assistance, the accomplishment of its 
purposes, or the execution of the Technical Assistance in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of this Agreement.
(e)
The Recipient: (i) shall have been suspended from membership in 
or ceased to be a member of the Bank; or (ii) shall have ceased to be a member of 
the International Monetary Fund.
(f)
A representation made by the Recipient in or pursuant to this 
Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to 
be relied upon by the Administrator in making the Grant, shall have been 
incorrect in any material respect.
Section 6.03. If the Technical Assistance is suspended or terminated, the 
Recipient and the Administrator shall consult with each other concerning any 
further action that may be necessary or desirable.
Section 6.04. The Administrator is not an agent of or trustee for the 
Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The 
Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by 
the Administrator pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Page  11
Representation
Section 7.01. All communications with respect to this Agreement shall be 
addressed as follows:
For the Recipient:
Minister of Education, Culture and Labour
Ministry of Education, Culture and Labour
Castries
St. Lucia, West Indies
Telex:
  341-6394
For the Administrator and the Bank:
Director
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI) or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names as of the day and year first above written.
SAINT LUCIA
Page  12
By /s/ John Compton
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
on its own behalf and as Administrator
of the Grant
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Technical Assistance
The Technical Assistance shall support the preparation of a proposed 
Basic Education Project (the Project) and shall consist of the following:
Part A
:
Expanding Access to Basic Education
1.
Conduct of a study of the cost-effectiveness of the mode of utilization of 
existing educational facilities for the development of a master plan for the use of 
present infrastructure and identification of geographic locations for construction 
of new schools based on: (a) demographic analysis; (b) school mapping exercises; 
and (c) assessment of least cost options for expanding access.
2.
Conduct of analyses related to school activities to include:
(a)
Development of prototype architectural designs and layouts for 
primary and secondary schools for use by the Recipients.
(b)
Assessment of the present physical state of each school and its 
potential for rehabilitation or need for replacement.
Page  13
(c)
Identification of optimum sites for construction of additional or 
replacement schools.
(d)
Design of a viable, ongoing preventive maintenance program for 
education facilities and equipment.
3.
Conduct of comprehensive inventories of existing school resources, 
including all educational furniture, equipment and supplies, relative to needs to 
support the basic education curriculum and preparation of specifications and 
bidding documents for procurement of educational equipment and supplies 
needed to support curriculum reform and review of related practices and 
policies.
Part B
:
Enhancing the Quality of Education
1.
Analysis of the Recipient’s present teaching situation with respect to: (a) 
pre-service preparation; (b) in-service training; (c) terms and conditions of 
employment; and (d) actual teaching practices.
2.
Identification of cost effectice options of enhanced teaching, including 
needs for supplemental courses and revisions of existing approaches to both 
pre-service and in-service teacher training and identification of longer term 
reforms to the process of teacher recruitment, training, and terms and conditions 
of employment.
3.
Preparation of proposed educational standards to be achieved at each 
grade level and upon completion of the primary and lower secondary cycles.
4.
Conduct of a comprehensive analysis of the existing primary and lower 
secondary curricula and assessment of alternative approaches to ensure 
cost-effective delivery of such curricula.
5.
Evaluation of the current curricula development capability at the national 
level and formulation of cost-effective strategies to meet curricula assessment 
and development needs.
6.
Assessment of current practices and exploration of cost-effective 
alternatives for the selection and procurement of basic education materials, 
including textbooks for the primary and lower secondary education levels.
Part C
:
Strengthening of the Recipient’s Education Planning, 
Administration, Management and Financing
Page  14
1.
Review of the present organizational structure and administrative 
practices adopted by the Recipient’s MOECL including: (a) assessment of the 
staff presently employed; (b) identification of additional staffing needs as well as 
training required by MOECL’s personnel; and (c) design of recommended 
personnel reforms and modifications to organizational structures to strengthen 
education sector planning, administration and management.
2.
Assessment of the present administrative and accounting systems, 
internal controls and financial reporting and auditing arrangements within 
MOECL and formulation of a detailed plan of action, including specification of 
staff training needs to strengthen such institutional capacity.
3.
Review of the education sector management information system, 
preparation of specific recommendations and actions to strengthen such system 
and design of data collection forms and procedures to obtain required 
information in a cost-effective manner.
4.
(a)
Evaluation of the present system for supervision of schools, 
identification of specific staff training needs and logistic support requirements 
for strengthening such system.
(b)
Review of current practices and skills of principals and 
headmasters and preparation of a program for in-service training of principals to 
upgrade their skills.
5.
Finalization of the preparatory work required, including technical review 
and pilot testing during the 1993-94 academic year of standard achievement 
examinations for grades 3 and 5 within the primary cycle.
6.
(a)
Identification and preparation of requirements for upgrading the 
testing unit within MOECL for primary and secondary education cycles.
(b)
(i)
Assessment in conjunction with CXC of the desirability of 
modifying the CEE to improve its usefulness to measure 
mastery of curricula, and of modifying the CXC secondary 
school exam to better measure attainment of educational 
standards.
(ii)
Design of new test instruments, where needed, and 
assessment of the staff training needs of equipment at both 
the central MOECL and school-level to ensure the effective 
administration and evaluation of test results. 
Page  15
(iii)
Determination of the operating costs for maintaining an 
ongoing standards testing system throughout the basic 
education cycle.
7.
(a)
Analysis of the current level and pattern of fiscal education 
spending including the overall state of education sector financing and projection 
of resource availability over the next decade.
(b)
Review of the opportunities for increasing resource allocations over 
the short to medium-term including the potential for adoption of efficiency 
measures and mobilization of additional resources.
(c)
Assessment of the recurrent cost implications and sustainability of 
ongoing basic education programs, new education initiatives and sector 
investments, including the proposed new basic education project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Services, Facilities, Equipment
and Counterpart Personnel to be Made
Available by the Recipient
The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants:
1.
All the data and information necessary to carry out the Technical 
Assistance, including statistics and technical and legal documents possessed by 
the Ministry of Education, Culture and Labour and other ministries or agencies 
concerned.
2.
Office space and equipment such as computers, copy and facsimile 
machines, and telephones as required.
3.
Secretarial services as required.
4.
Counterpart personnel with appropriate qualifications and experience.
5.
Local transportation.
