Report No. 788a-CH                                                        FILE  COPY
Appraisal of Sixth Power Project
Empresa Nacional de Electricidad S.A.
(ENDESA) Chile
December 1, 1976
Energy Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Woirld Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency unit                   Peso (Ch$)
Ch$1                            100 centavos
Ch$l                  =         US$0.0625
Ch$1,000,000                    US$62,500
US$1                  =          Ch$16
USil                  -          Ch$0.16
Ch$1                  -          1,000 escudos (E°) -
monetary unit until
September 1975
UNITS AND MEASURES
kW     =   kilowatt
MW     =   megawatt = 1,000 kW
kWh    =   kilowatt hour
GWh    =   gigawatt hour = 1,000,000 kWh
kV     =   kilovolt
kVA    =   kilovolt-ampere
MVA        megavolt-ampere
kVAR   =   reactive kilovolt-ampere
m      =   meter = 3.28 ft
km2    -   kilometer = 0.621 mi
ka     = square kilometer = 0.386 sq mi
m3     =   cubic meter = 35.3 cu ft
m IS   =   cubic meters per second
ha     =   hectare = 2.471 acres
FISCAL YEAR
Endesa's fiscal year ends December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
Endesa     -    Empresa Nacional de Electricidad S. A.
Corfo      -    Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion
IDB        -    Inter-American Development Bank
CIS        -    Central Interconnected System
Chilectra  -    Compania Chilena de Electricidad S. A.
CGEI       -    Compania General de Electricidad Industrial
Conafe     -    Compania Nacional de Fuerza Electrica
IDC        -    Interest During Construction
Segtel     -    Superintendencia de Servicios Electricos de Gas y de
Telecomunicaciones
CPI        -    Consumer Price Index
* The exchange rate of Chilean currency is changed on a daily basis. The
currency equivalents shown are approximately those in existence when
loan negotiations took place.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT - CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S. A. (ENDESA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Summary and Conclusions  ................................    i-ii
1.-   Introduction  ...........................................                         I
2.    The Electric Power Sector  ..............................                         2
The Energy sector  .................................                       2
Organization of the electric power sector  ....                 .....      3
Electricity consumption  ...........................                       3
Utility regulation and tariffs  .....                 ...............      4
Sector development  ................................                      5
3.    The Program and Project  ................................                         6
Construction program  ..............................                       6
The Project  ..........            .............................           6
Estimated cost and financing  ......................                       6
Engineering and construction  ......................                       7
Procurement and disbursement  ......................                       8
Performance indicators  ............................                       8
4.    Project Justificaiton  ..................................                         9
General ...........................................                        9
Demand and sales forecast .........................                      10
Least-cost solution  ...............................                     10
Return on program/project investment ....                  ..........    10
5.    The Borrower  ...........................................                        11
Endesa organization, management and staff  ....                 .....    11
Financial systems and auditors  .....                 ...............    12
6.    Finance  ................................................                        12
Introduction  ......................................                     12
Earnings record and financial position  ....                 ........    13
The current tariff and earnings  situation  ....                .....    13
Financing plan  ....................................                     15
Future earnings and financial position  ....                 ........    17
7.    Agreements Reached and Recommendations  ....                    .............   18
This report has been prepared by John E. Graves and Carlos F. Mena.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ued by recipients only in bs performnc  |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World ank suthoriustion.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Organization of the Electric Power Sector
Annex 2  -  Elecricity Demand in Chile
Annex 3  -  Rural Electrification in Chile
Annex 4  -  Performance Indicators and Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 5  -  Electric Utility Regulation in Chile
Annex 6  -  Electric Tariff Structures in Chile
Annex 7  -  Development of the Electric Power Sector
Annex 8  -  Major Works Underway
Annex 9  -  Studies for Proposed Hydroelectric Projects
Annex 10 - Description of the Project
Annex 11 - Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
Annex 12 - Return on Investment
Annex 13 - Actual and Forecast Key Financial Ratios 1970-81
Annex 14 - Income Statements 1974-76
Annex 15 - Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets at December 31, 1970-81
Annex 16 - Existing Long-Term Debt and Estimated Future Debt Service
Annex 17 - Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds 1977-81
Annex 18 - Forecast Income Statements 1977-81
Map - IBRD 11308R



APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT - CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S. A. (ENDESA)
Summary and Conclusions
i.        This report appraises the sixth power project of the Empresa
Nacional de Electricidad S.A. (Endesa) of Chile, which has requested Bank
assistance in its financing. Endesa is principally a bulk supplier of elec-
tricity in Chile's central zone, where most of the country's population lives;
it generated 77% of the public-service electricity produced in the central
zone in 1975. It also distributes electricity in areas of the central zone
not served by other companies and in isolated areas in Chile's northern and
southern regions.
ii.       Beginning in 1948, when Endesa received the Bank's first development
loan, the Bank has made five loans totaling US$131.3 million net of cancella-
tions for power development in Chile. All five loans have been fully dis-
bursed. Except for the Rapel hydroelectric development (Loan 244-CH) and a
river diversion scheme in the fifth project, all project elements have been
completed successfully and on schedule. Events largely beyond the control of
Endesa's management (principally an earthquake, floods and prolonged strikes)
delayed completion of the Rapel plant by three years. Estimated completion of
the river diversion scheme has been delayed by four years to late 1977 because
of a contractor's unsatisfactory performance and subsequent discharge, a lack
of equipment and difficult tunneling conditions.
iii.      The principal objective of past Bank lending for Chilean power
development has been to assist in construction of hydraulic generating faci-
lities. The proposed lending operation departs from past ones not only in
the nature of the works to be financed (see paragraph iv) but also by seeking
sectoral improvements, particularly in regulatory matters. The government's
increased awareness of the need for rational energy-pricing policies and a
greater degree of financial self-sufficiency on the part of utilities is
expected to facilitate the successful implementation of needed sectoral im-
provements.
iv.       The project is Endesa's system rehabilitation program, which the
company would have carried out in 1971-74 if it could have obtained the
necessary local and foreign resources. The project's principal components
are transmission improvements needed to correct existing overload conditions;
construction, transportation and other equipment needed to replace similar
antiquated equipment used in system construction and maintenance; equipment,
consulting and other services for studies of future hydro projects; a load-
dispatching system; and spare parts. The estimated total and foreign costs
are US$123.4 and US$35 million, respectively.



- ii -
v.        The proposed US$35 million Bank loan would finance the project's
foreign cost. Endesa's internal cash generation and government contributions
would pay for the project's local cost.
vi.       Endesa's staff will design, engineer and install or construct the
project's components, which are similar to works which they have completed
previously. The company's management and staff are capable.
vii.      Procurement would be in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Endesa has requested that up to US$2.9 million of project components be
purchased on a negotiated basis from manufacturers which have previously
supplied related equipment. These include a large variety of many, often
small, spare parts for generating, construction and transportation equipment
which are only available from one source, generally the original manufacturer,
and laboratory, testing and measuring equipment needed to carry out studies of
new projects; Endesa wishes to acquire the same brands of equipment as it has
previously used to assure standardization. All other procurement of Bank-
financed project components would be awarded after international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. No prior commitments or
retroactive financing would be included.
viii.     The purpose of the project is to correct serious operating problems
in the power system in areas of Chile outside Santiago where they now exist
and thereby restore reliable electric service to those areas, reduce energy
losses and consumption of imported fuel, and enable Endesa to supply in-
creasing demands for electricity for both industrial and rural development.
In connection with the proposed loan, the Bank would seek to assist Chile in
improving the regulation, structure and financing of the power sector.  The
project components represent the least-cost solution for meeting the most
immediate rehabilitation needs for discount rates of at least up to 12%.
The rate of return on investment in Endesa's program through 1981, of which
the project is a part, is 26%.
ix.       In the past Government policies have prevented Endesa's financial
performance from being satisfactory. Thus, Endesa has never earned the rate
of return permitted by Chile's electricity law and has depended on government
contributions to pay for a large part of its construction program. The
government has now begun to take steps to enable the company to improve
its financial performance, and the proposed loan agreement provides the
mechanism for further tariff increases and improvements in tariff-setting
procedures needed for Endesa to achieve a reasonable rate of return.
x.        The project would form a suitable basis for a US$35 million Bank
loan with a term of 17 years including 3 1/2 years of grace. The loan would
be made to Endesa and guaranteed by the Republic of Chile.



APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT - CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S. A. (ENDESA)
1. Introduction
1.01      This report appraises the sixth power project in Chile, for which
the Empresa Nacional de Electricidad S.A. (Endesa) has sought Bank assistance.
1.02      The project is Endesa's system rehabilitation program, which consists
of works and studies originally planned for 1971-74 but deferred because the
necessary resources were not available. The project's principal components
are: transmission improvements needed to correct existing overload conditions;
construction, transportation and other equipment needed to replace similar
antiquated equipment used in system construction and maintenance; equipment,
consulting and other services for studies of future hydro projects; a load-
dispatching system; and spare parts. The project's estimated total and
foreign costs are US$123.4 and US$35 million, respectively.
1.03      The Bank has made five power loans totalling US$131.3 million, net of
cancellations, to Endesa. The most recent loan, 479-CH, was signed for US$60
million in 1966 and supplemented by US$6.7 million in 1974. All five loans
have been fully disbursed. Except for the Rapel hydro development and Alto
Polcura diversion, all project components have been completed successfully and
on time. The Rapel development, a principal component of the Rapel & Huasco
project (Loan 244-CH) was completed in 1968, three years behind schedule
because of a severe earthquake, floods, landslides, poor rock conditions and
prolonged strikes. The estimated completion date of the Alto Polcura diver-
sion, a small component of the fifth project (Loan 479-CH) has been delayed by
four years because of a contractor's unsatisfactory performance and subsequent
discharge, Endesa's inability to obtain construction equipment in the early
1970s and poor tunnelling conditions.
1.04      The principal objective of past Bank lending to Chile has been
assistance in construction of generating facilities, mostly hydraulic. The
proposed lending operation departs from past emphasis not only in the nature
of the works to be financed (paragraph 1.02) but also by seeking improvements
in sector regulation and rationalization (see paragraphs 2.06 and 2.09-2.12).
The government's increased awareness of the need for rational energy pricing
policies and for a greater degree of financial self-sufficiency on the part
of utilities is expected to enhance the successful implementation of needed
sectoral improvements.
1.05      The proposed US$35 million Bank loan would cover all the project's
foreign cost. Endesa's net internal cash generation and government contri-
butions would finance the project's local cost.
1.06      This report is based on a feasibility study of the system rehabil-
itation program prepared by Endesa with the assistance of Mr. R. Vaughan



-2-
Sear, a consultant, and on the findings of an appraisal made by John E. Graves,
who visited Chile in September/October 1974 and April/ May 1975; this appraisal
was updated by John E. Graves, Carlos F. Mena and B. F. Martin, who visited
Chile in November 1976.
2. The Electric Power Sector
The Energy Sector
2.01      Petroleum accounted for 61% of Chile's total energy consumption in
1975; hydroelectric energy, 26%; and other sources - mostly coal - the remain-
ing 13%. Despite inflation-related difficulties, the government has been fol-
lowing a realistic energy pricing policy in the past three years. Prices of
petroleum products are readjusted frequently to reflect those prevailing on
the world market, and considerable progress has been achieved (see Chapter 6)
in correcting previously-inadequate pricing policies for electricity. These
measures, together with the efforts to increase domestic supplies, described
below, will offset to some extent the adverse impact of the energy crisis on
Chile's balance of payments. Because of its heavy dependence on imported
petroleum, Chile is one of the Latin American countries which has suffered
most heavily as a result of petroleum price increases. The Bank, United
Nations Development Programme and Economic Commission for Latin America are
discussing a joint approach to providing technical assistance in energy sector
planning to these countries, from which Chile can be expected to benefit.
2.02      Chile produces only about one-quarter of its crude oil requirements.
Production is concentrated in its southernmost territory - the province of
Magallanes. Output is declining, and the country will be virtually out of
crude by 1980 unless new deposits are found and developed. The present
worldwide shortage of off-shore drilling equipment and Chile's lack of capi-
tal to finance drilling have delayed the national petroleum company from
further exploration in the Magallanes area, where commercially-exploitable
crude and natural gas deposits are believed to exist, based on successful
completion of some exploratory wells. Chile launched a development
drilling program in late 1976 in order to be able to meet one-third of its
crude requirements and to increase its already considerable - 57,100 million m3 -
reserves of natural gas. An offshore drilling rig began operations in the
Straits of Magellan in late 1976, and Chile has requested the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) to assemble a financing package for a plant to liquefy
the natural gas there.
2.03      Deep undersea coal mines near Concepcion produce a relatively low
grade of coal at relatively high cost. Almost half of the coal is consumed at
electric generating plants. The government is currently studying expansion of
its Concepcion mines and exploitation of other low-grade deposits in Magallanes.



2.04      Chile's hydroelectric resources are large.  Even within the lati-
tudes of 27 S and 42 S, which form the limits of Chile's heavily-populated
territory, Endesa has identified 76 potential hydro sites in 19 river basins
with total estimated capacity of over 8,600 MW and average potential hydro
year energy production of over 47,000 GWh. To ensure orderly identification
and development of the best sites, Endesa has pre-feasibility studies on eight
of them in various stages of completion. Chile intends to rely on development
of this potential to provide most of the country's long-term incremental elec-
tricity needs. Progress towards this objective has been hampered by foreign
exchange stringency and by unsatisfactory past pricing policies, which failed
to generate the sizeable resources needed to support investments in hydro-
electric generation. Because of this, Endesa has been unable to complete its
hydroelectric developments as fast as originally programmed (paragraph 2.13).
The introduction of reforms in the regulatory process which are designed to
prevent a recurrence of this unsatisfactory situation is a major objective of
the proposed loan (paragraph 2.11).
Organization of the electric power sector
2.05      As described in annex 1, Endesa, a bulk supplier, is the largest
sector entity in terms of generation, accounting for 77% of the electricity
generated in the central interconnected system (CIS) in 1975. Compania
Chilena de Electricidad S.A. (Chilectra) is the second-largest, with 21% of
CIS generation. Endesa also generates and distributes electricity in isolated
areas outside the CIS.
2.06      The division of responsibility between Endesa and Chilectra re-
flects the historical development of Chile's electric power sector. Endesa's
primary interest has always been provision of electricity to the CIS through
development of appropriately-sized generating and transmission works, and
distribution has been of secondary importance. Chilectra, on the other hand,
has become primarily a distribution company in its own concession zone; gene-
ration from its own plants supplies less than half its present needs, and its
role in generation will diminish after completion of Ventanas unit 2. Sector
reorganization might serve Chile's long-term electricity needs better by al-
lowing management of each company to focus its attention on only one in-
terest: either bulk supply or local distribution of electricity. Sector ra-
tionalization would be taken up during project supervision, by which time it
is expected that the extreme inflationary tendencies which disrupted the
country's economy during the early 1970s would have subsided, enabling the
government and utility management to resume their plans for orderly sector
development.
Electricity consumption
2.07      As detailed in annex 1 and summarized below, total generation of
electricity in Chile increased by 22% in the period 1969-75. Captive plant
generation declined by 5%, as the industrial and mining companies depended on
Endesa for their incremental needs; this trend is expected to continue.
Consequently, consumption of electricity generated by public-service companies
grew by 39% during the same period.



-4 -
1969            1975    Growth per
GWh     %       GWh     %   Year (%)
Residential                       827    21    1,393    26         9.1
Commercial                        336      9      415      8       3.6
Industrial                      1,900    49    2,753    51         6.3
Transport                         196      5       176     3    - 1.8
Government, including water
supply, irrigation, street
lighting                         636    16       674    12       0.9
Total public-service
consumption                    3,895   100    5,411   100        5.6
Captive generation              2,490           2,376           - 0.8
Losses                            749             948              4.0
7,134           8,735             3.4
The average annual rate of increase in electricity consumption over the last
six years of about 3.4% is well below the historic pattern of 8% annual growth,
reflecting economic conditions in the country. This consumption curve is
shown in annex 2. The growth of residential consumption has been much higher,
largely because of the underpricing of domestic tariffs, which led to a 33%
increase in residential consumption in 1972-73.
2.08      About 35% and 90% respectively of the population of Chile's rural
(including towns of less than 5,000 inhabitants) and urban areas have access
to public-service electricity supply. As a result of its current program,
including the rural electrification program outlined in annex 3, Endesa plans
to increase its market penetration of rural areas to 45% by 1981, which is
reasonable. Expected progress in achieving these goals during the project
period is shown in annex 4.
Utility regulation and tariffs
2.09      As detailed in annex 5, utility regulation in Chile is based on the
provisions of the Ley General de Servicios Electricos, DFL no. 4, July 24,
1959, as amended. Under this law, the Superintendencia de Servicios Elec-
tricos, de Gas y de Telecomunicaciones (Segtel) assures itself that the
utilities have complied with the law, and the Comision de Tarifas establishes
the rate bases and sets the tariffs.
2.10      The Chilean regulatory process in the past has not worked very well
for lengthy periods which accounts to a large degree for Endesa's substandard
financial performance (see chapter 6). Poor past regulatory performance is
attributable to both the attitude of the regulatory agencies (reflecting, in
turn, government pressure to hold prices down) and some deficiencies in the
law, which are either directly prejudicial to the utilities or are capable of
being so interpreted as to lead to that result.



2.11       As a result of discussions with the Bank, Endesa has submitted to
the government a series of proposed changes to the law (summarized in para-
graph 27 of annex 5) which would improve utility regulation by: inter alia
defining procedural rules for the tariff commission; providing for more
frequent and timely rate base revaluations and tariff-increase filings;
defining more precisely the content of the rate base; expediting the review
and approval process for tariff-increase applications; and abolishing dis-
counts to governmental bodies. During negotiations of the proposed loan, it
was agreed that the government would propose these amendments to Chile's
legislative commission. Incorporation of all proposed modifications in the
law would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
2.12       Endesa's tariff structures for both bulk and retail customers are
designed to discourage inefficient consumption of electricity and improve the
utility's load factor. As shown in annex 6, Endesa's wholesale and larger
retail customers pay lower rates for off-peak consumption, its residential
rates increase with usage, and it provides incentives for off-peak residential
heating. Chilectra, on the other hand, has a less up-to-date tariff structure,
which includes some anomalies (particularly with respect to demand charges)
and does not differentiate between peak and off-peak consumption. In view of
this situation, Chilectra has engaged a local consultant to study its tariff
structure and recommend improvements. It was agreed during negotiations that
the government would furnish the Bank any studies relating to Chilectra's
tariffs and provide the Bank an opportunity to comment on the conclusions of
such studies.
Sector development
2.13       Chile intends to provide most of its long-term incremental electri-
city needs by developing its most economic hydro sites (paragraph 2.04).
While delays in completing the Alto Polcura diversion (paragraph 1.03) and
difficulties in obtaining financing for execution and studies of new hydro
projects have postponed commissioning of these hydro projects, the failure
of demand growth to meet predicted levels has offset potential problems
concerning generating capacity. With works currently underway (the Alto
Polcura diversion, the 210 MW Ventanas thermal unit being installed by
Chilectra, and Endesa's 2 x 150 MW Antuco hydro development), the CIS gener-
ating requirements would be met until 1984, when the next hydro development
would be commissioned. As presently planned, that development would be the
first (500 MW) stage of the Colbun-Machicura development, whose feasibility
study Endesa has completed. It would be followed in 1986 by the 450 MW
Neltume development, which is still under study. Completion of the Neltume
feasibility study (funds for which are included in the proposed project) might
result in a reversal of the order of commissioning of the two, if it is found
that such reversal is a lower-cost alternative.
2.14       Endesa's transmission/distribution program includes transmission
lines related to new generating plants and to the interconnection of its
system with the system in the Mendoza region of Argentina (para 4 of annex 7),
rural electrification (para 2.08), and components of the project (see chapter
3).



-6-
3. The Program and Project
Construction program
3.01      Endesa's 1977-1980 construction program includes:
a.   completion or continuation of works underway (described in
annex 8), the Alto Polcura diversion (loan 479-CH), and the
300 MW Antuco hydro development;
b.   initial construction of new generating works:  the first
stage (500 MW) of the Colbun-Machicura hydroelectric develop-
ment (annex 9) and/or the 450 MW Neltume hydroelectric
development (para 2.13), together with related transmission
improvements; and
c.   the Project (system rehabilitation program).
The Project
3.02      As described in annex 10, the sixth project consists of a large
amount of equipment needed to overcome unsatisfactory operating conditions
in Endesa's system. The largest components are: new generating equipment
or conversion of existing generating units, all needed to overcome un-
favorable operating conditions in isolated or semi-isolated systems; CIS
transmission improvements needed to correct existing overload situations
and to meet expected demand growth; and construction, transportation, labora-
tory, shop, measuring, testing and other equipment needed for construction of
transmission and distribution improvements, maintenance of existing facilities
and studies of future projects. Also included are isolated-system transmission
improvements, distribution equipment, a load-dispatching system and equipment
and consulting services for studies of future projects (estimated to total 65
man-months).
Estimated cost and financing
3.03      The project's estimated cost totals US$123.4 million with a US$35
million foreign component, as summarized below and detailed in annex 10. The
proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign component. The foreign cost was
estimated on the basis of the cost of direct imports and of the import compo-
nent of local supplies of up to US$1.0 million (para. 3.07).



- 7 -
Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total
--- millions of pesos ---    ---- millions of US$ ----
Generation, transmission
and distribution improve-
ments:
cis                          353        141       494       22.1       8.8        30.9
Isolated systems             102         52       154        6.4       3.3         9.7
Load dispatching system         21         60         81        1.3      3.7         5.0
Equipment and services
for studies                  223         39       262       13.9       2.5        16.4
Other equipment and
spare parts                    7        140       147        0.4       8.7         9.1
Total base cost             706        432     1,138       44.1      27.0        71.1
Customs duties and taxes       248                   248       15.5                 15.5
Admin. and general             119                   119        7.5                  7.5
Physical contingencies          78         35        113        4.9      2.2         7.1
Price contingencies            263         93        356       16.4      5.8        22.2
Total                    _1414         560     1,974       88.4      35.0       123.4
3.04      In making the foreign-cost estimates, Endesa used actual quotations
for similar goods and added allowance for price increases updated as of mid-
1976 to year-end 1980 to form its base-cost estimate. The local-cost estimate
is based on price conditions in Chile in June 1976. Customs duties and general
and administrative expenses are based on current duty rates on imported equip-
ment and Endesa's accounting practices, respectively. Physical contingencies
were estimated depending on the nature of the items; they range between 5% and
15%. An allowance for price increases (foreign and local) has been calculated
using the following annual percentages: 9% in 1976 (second half), 8% in 1977
to 1979, and 7% for 1980. These percentages are based on projected interna-
tional inflation rates and the assumption that changes in the peso-dollar
exchange rate will compensate for the excess of internal over external infla-
tion. Average cost of consultants including salary and overhead are estimated
at US$4,700 per man-month.
Engineering and construction
3.05      Endesa will design, specify, and install the equipment included in
the project, using technical assistance from suppliers' representatives when
necessary (as, for example, in conversion of fuel systems of generating
plants). The company has engineered and constructed works of a similar nature
before and is fully capable of executing the project. Assuming approval of



- 8 -
the proposed loan by December 1976, ENDESA expects most of the equipment to be
delivered in 1978 and the project to be completed by the end of 1980.
Procurement and disbursement
3.06      Endesa has requested that equipment with a total estimated cost of
US$2.9 million be imported without international competitive bidding. Of this
total, US$1.9 million is for a large variety of many, often small, spare parts
for the Cipreses hydroelectric plant and various diesel generating units. The
remaining US$1 million of the direct purchases would be for measuring, testing
and laboratory equipment. Endesa has been using the same brands (where more
than one is available) for any given type of this equipment since 1960 or
earlier and desires to continue using the same brands to maintain standardiza-
tion of its equipment.
3.07      All other contracts for Bank-financed plant and equipment would
be awarded following international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines for procurement. Chilean manufacturers of material and
equipment will be entitled to preferences of 15% or the applicable tariff,
whichever is lower in bid evaluation. Such suppliers may be in a position to
win contracts to supply small transformers and voltage regulators, estimated
to cost about US$1 million.
3.08      Disbursements from the loan account would be made for:
a.   100% of foreign expenditures for equipment and materials,
including foreign-currency cost of the supervision of
erection by factory representatives as appropriate; and
b.   100% of the ex-factory cost of locally produced equipment
and materials.
c.   100% of foreign expenditures for consultants' services.
Disbursements in excess of US$12 million would not take place unless Endesa
has demonstrated that it has achieved a 3% rate of return in 1977, calculated
as defined in paragraph 6.08. Estimated loan disbursements are shown in annex
11. Any undisbursed funds upon completing the project could be applied to
acquisition of similar goods needed for further system rehabilitation and
improvement after consultation with the Bank.
Performance indicators
3.09      The Bank and Endesa have mutually agreed that the performance in-
dicators shown in annex 4 represent reasonable achievement goals for the proj-
ect period.



- 9 -
4. Project Justification
General
4.01      Besides assisting the country in overcoming the most serious operating
problems of its electric power sector (see paragraph 4.03) the Bank's objectives
in lending for electric power development in Chile are:
a.   to help offset the adverse impact of the energy crisis on
the country's balance of payments by reducing energy
losses which require additional thermal generation and by
advancing the preparation of future hydroelectric projects;
b.   to help the government and utility management to rationalize
the sector (paragraph 2.06);
c.   to provide for more functional sector regulation (para-
graphs 2.09-11) and improve tariff structures (para-
graph 2.12); and.
d.   to help move toward more appropriate financing methods for
the sector (see paragraph 6.12).
4.02      Reliable public-service electric supply is vital to Chile's eco-
nomic recovery because of: the increasing dependence of mining/refining and
other export-oriented industries on the public system (paragraph 2.07); the
needs of agriculture for electricity for irrigation and food-processing; and
the largely-electrified railway system's role in transporting goods within
the country. Endesa's increased emphasis on rural electrification (paragraph
2.08) will bring the economic and social benefits of electricity to a larger
segment of the rural population, which will assist in restoring Chile's
agricultural self-sufficiency. These benefits include the use of electricity
for machinery, tools and pumping, efficient and reliable lighting and refriger-
ation and improvements in the standard of living through access to domestic
appliances. While the project itself would not provide system expansion
directly to the rural population, it would provide the infrastructure neces-
sary for such service to be provided under a separate program. In this
regard, 46% of the total project investment would directly serve regions
with above-average rural poverty indices.
4.03      The purpose of the project is to restore reliable electric service--
vital to Chile's economic recovery--by overcoming the most serious operating
problems existing in the CIS and various isolated systems owing to under-
investment from 1971 through 1975. These operating problems encompass system
overloads, with concomitant energy losses and voltage reductions, curtailment
of service because of frequent outages of old generating equipment (particular-
ly in isolated systems), and frequent breakdowns of construction and trans-
portation equipment, which not only involve high maintenance costs but also
disrupt Endesa's construction and maintenance schedules. Since most of Chile's
industry (including agro-industries and large portions of the mining sector)



- 10 -
relies to an increasing extent on public-service electricity supply, the
value of reliable supply to the nation's economy is very high. Conversely,
disruptions of electricity supply would have serious effects on Chile's
productive capacity, and consequently, its ability to earn foreign exchange.
While the project will also provide for future growth in demand, this is not
its principal purpose; the project would be justified even in the unlikely
event that demand growth did not occur.
Demand and sales forecast
4.04      Although interrupted occasionally by earthquakes, droughts, and -
in the early seventies - by political/economic turmoil, growth in demand for
electricity in Chile has averaged about 8% historically. While demand showed
little overall growth in 1972-75, reflecting prevailing economic conditions,
Endesa expects it to resume a growth pattern averaging 7.5% p.a. for the
1976-85 decade, as shown in annex 2. Even with demand growth at 7% annually,
which is assumed to be a lower limit, Endesa's need for new generating capa-
city (para 2.13) would not be altered significantly, and its need for system
rehabilitation would not be reduced at all.
Least-cost solution
4.05      For much of the equipment (e.g. the small diesel generating units
and the construction and transportation equipment which is to replace similar
superannuated equipment) included in the project, no reasonable alternative
exists.
4.06      Where alternative solutions do exist, as for example in transmission
system improvements, Endesa has selected the least-cost configuration of equip-
ment and lines to meet expected loads, using a 12% discount rate. Examples
of this analysis are provided in its feasibility study. The more important
transmission works included in the project were originally included in the
power development plan (Annex 7) or subsidiary plans, all of which used
discount rates of 12 to 15% in selecting the least-cost solution to Chile's
future electricity needs. Endesa has re-examined all works originally
suggested in its power development plan in the light of current costs and
market conditions and found that they remain the least-cost solutions for
discount rates of at least 12%.
Return on program/project investment
4.07      Annex 12 shows that the estimated rate of return - defined as the
discount rate which equalizes the stream of expected revenues with associated
costs - on Endesa's total investment program, of which the project is a
comparatively small part, is 26%. If the cost of the investment program
included expenditures already made on the Antuco hydro-development, the rate
of return would be 20.9%. These rates of return are based on retail tariff
levels expected to be put into effect in 1977 and future years to enable
Chilean utilities to earn the financial rates of return agreed during nego-
tiations (see paras 6.07-08). This rate of return indicates that the prices
to be paid by customers will, on average, exceed the marginal cost of supply.



- 11 -
4.08      The economic rate of return is undoubtedly higher because the eco-
nomic and social benefits to the final consumer are not measured adequately
by the prices charged by Endesa, which reflect its status as a regulated
public utility. As noted in paragraph 4.02, these benefits include benefits
to industry and commerce, whose production and employment depend on public-
service electricity supply as a prime source of motive power and illumination,
and the social benefits of public lighting and domestic supply.
5. The Borrower
5.01      Endesa is a corporation created by the government in 1944 for the
general planning of power supply in Chile and to supply electricity where
other companies were not able to meet the demand. Chile's Corporacion de
Fomento de la Produccion (Corfo), a government agency established in 1939
to lend to or invest in public and private entities to stimulate economic
growth and production, owns more than 98% of Endesa's shares. Endesa is
subject to the same regulations as other electricity companies: its rates
and tariffs are regulated as indicated in paragraphs 2.09 and annex 5.
Like other public and private corporations, it pays income, capital and
sales taxes and customs duties.
Endesa organization, management and staff
5.02      Prior to 1971, Corfo elected eight of Endesa's nine-man board of
directors and the Chilean institute of engineers, the other. The previous
government expanded the size of the board to 19 members, with Endesa's
employees electing nine of the new members and the president of the republic,
the remaining one. The present government reduced the board's size to eleven
members, all of whom Corfo selects. The board is responsible for policy mat-
ters and appointment of senior management; it leaves to management the
responsibility for project planning and execution, system operation and
day-to-day affairs. Except for a one-year period through early 1975, Endesa
has traditionally filled senior management posts by appointment from within
the company. The general manager, a civil engineer, was formerly in charge
of project execution. He and all departmental managers have over 20 years of
service with Endesa and are capable.
5.03      In recent years, Endesa has lost an unprecedented number of lower-
level professional staff, generally with less than 10 years' experience,
because of political turmoil in Chile and, more recently, government policies
limiting public-sector salaries, which have made private-sector employment
more attractive. Endesa management intends to introduce internal training
programs to rebuild Endesa's engineering and technical staff capability to
its previous high level of competence; progress in achieving this would be
monitored during project supervision.
5.04      Formerly, Endesa constructed most of its facilities with its own
forces, so that its total staff had grown to large proportions -- about
8,500 people, including 5,000 in construction. This policy was reversed in



- 12 -
1975, and Endesa's construction forces have been reduced to about 2,500,
mostly working on the Antuco hydro project. While the company will complete
the Antuco project with its own forces, it intends to let contracts for all
future major construction works, retaining only a relatively small force for
highly specialized and emergency jobs. This policy change is satisfactory.
Endesa's present and expected employment levels are shown in Annex 4. Con-
sidering the extent of its service territory and its practice of performing
its own studies and engineering, its employment levels (about 3,200 oper-
ational and administrative employees now, and 3,500 at the end of the project
period)- are appropriate.
Financial systems and auditors
5.05      Endesa's internal accounting system and audit procedures have
improved noticeably. Prior to 1975, end-of-year adjustments caused inordi-
nate delays in year-end internal reports and consequently, in completion
of audited statements. Consequently, the Bank did not receive the reports
within the four-month period stipulated in earlier loan agreements. Beginning
in 1975, Endesa improved its year-end procedures and employed a different
external auditing firm (Macaya, Olate y Cia), which implemented accelerated
audit procedures. As a result, Endesa's audited statements for 1975 and the
auditor's report were prepared within the four-month period, and it is
expected that Endesa will be able to comply with this provision, which is
repeated in the proposed loan agreement, in the future.
6. Finance
Introduction
6.01      In the past, Government policies have prevented Endesa's financial
performance from being satisfactory. The utility has not achieved the 10%
rate of return permitted by Chile's regulatory law (which, as shown in annex
5, equates to a real return of less than 10%) and has depended on government
contributions to pay for a large part of its construction program. These
deficiencies are attributable only in part to the failure of regulatory
authorities to grant tariff increases. To a larger degree, Endesa's unsatis-
factory past financial performance was attributable to Chile's economic
environment, which has been highly inflationary over extended periods. By
restricting internal generation of funds through the regulatory lag and
through the impossibility of financial discipline, this inflationary environ-
ment has enhanced the need for Government contribution to capital-intensive
public investments, such as utilities, and it has allowed the subsidy to be
extended from meeting capital requirements to covering current deficits.
6.02      By authorizing 22 tariff increases beginning in late 1973, Chile's
present government has initiated steps to enable Endesa to improve its finan-
cial performance, but further steps are still necessary. These steps include:
further tariff increases to provide for gradual improvements in Endesa's rate



- 13 -
of return in 1977-79 (para 6.08); implementation of legal changes to enable
the utility to maintain its earnings at stipulated levels in future years
(paragraph 2.11); and investigation of the possibilities of substituting
long-term loans for government contributions (para 6.12).
Earnings record and financial position
6.03      As detailed in annexes 5 and 13, Endesa's financial performance
peaked in 1970, when its rate of return on beginning-of-year (as required by
Segtel) rate base was 8.2% and its real rate of return, about 6%. Its finan-
cial performance deteriorated subsequently, as the previous government allowed
only a token rate increase (26% in 1971) in a period of accelerating price
inflation (over 800% from December 1970 through September 1973) with the
result that Endesa showed an operating loss in 1973. Despite large tariff
increases in late 1973-74, Endesa still showed an operating loss in 1974.
Further tariff increases higher than the CPI in 1975-76 have enabled the
company to show marginal operating earnings (a rate of return of 1 to 2%
p.a. on a fully revalued rate base), but financial charges have exceeded
operating earnings, resulting in negative net income. Income statements
for 1974-76 are shown as Annex 14.
6.04      Endesa traditionally has depended on government contributions for
the major share of its new funds. The contributions have taken various forms
(e.g., lines of credit from the Central Bank, later assumed by Corfo; loans
from Corfo, later converted to equity; and direct contributions) for various
reasons (e.g., to cover customs duties, reimburse dividends and income taxes
paid by Endesa, service Endesa's lines of credit and other debt). As its
real earnings have become marginal or negative in recent years, the utility
has become dependent on governmental appropriations to finance its expansion.
Its conservative capital structure reflects the extent of this dependence. As
shown in annex 13, its debt/equity ratio varied between 15/85 and 24/76 in
1970-74.
6.05      The Bank is Endesa's largest creditor.  As shown in annex 16, 59%
of its foreign debt at year-end 1975 consisted of IBRD obligations. This
proportion will decrease as Endesa draws down funds from other loans made
recently or currently being negotiated (see para 6.15-16).
The current tariff and earnings situation
6.06      As detailed in annex 5, the law provides for revaluation of rate
base assets every five years based on replacement cost, and interim revalua-
tions based on the Chilean consumer price index (CPI). Because no replace-
ment cost revaluations had been made effective since 1968, Endesa in 1974
submitted to Segtel a revaluation calculation for all rate base assets (CIS
as well as distribution companies) as of December 31, 1973. As explained
in paragraph 9 of annex 5, the CIS revaluation was declared effective early
in 1975 based on the application of construction-cost indices to various cate-
gories of plant. Although Endesa had submitted an index-based replacement-
cost revaluation of its distribution-company assets as well, Segtel insisted
on utilizing the revaluation procedures previously employed, viz, item-by-item
estimation of replacement costs. Thus, the distribution-company replacement-
cost revaluations were not declared effective until late 1975.



- 14 -
6.07      Despite the tariff increases already put into effect (para 6.03),
further progress is necessary and possible because Endesa's rate of return
remains too low and electricity tariffs in Chile still are relatively low. In
November 1976, Endesa's CIS bulk tariff was about USJ1.8/kWh; its five distri-
bution companies' average retail rates were between US44 and USJ8/kWh; and
Chilectra's average rate was about USJ4/kWh.
6.08      To correct its unsatisfactory earnings performance assurances were
received during negotiations that Endesa would apply for, and the government
grant, such tariff increases as to permit the utility to achieve the following
annual rates of return: 3% in 1977; 6% in 1978; and 9% p.a. thereafter. The
proposed loan documents include specific procedures to be used to calculate
the rate of return, namely:
a.   operating income is to be calculated for Endesa as a whole
(CIS plus all distribution companies) in accordance with the
regulatory law as amended (paragraph 2.11);
b.   the average rate base is to be calculated for Endesa as a whole
(CIS plus all distribution companies) by summing the beginning-
of-month rate base for each month during the period and the rate
base at the end of the period (all monthly rate bases having been
revalued in accordance with the Chilean CPI or construction-cost
indices, whichever is applicable according to the law) and dividing
by the number of values summed. This differs from the Bank's
usual approach (beginning- and end-of-period values divided
by two) to allow for irregular inflation rates during the period;
c.   the rate of return for the period is to be the quotient of a - b;
d.   in the case of quarterly calculations, the rate of return is to be
received by the Bank within one month of the close of the appro-
priate quarter; and
e.   in the case of annual calculations, they are to be verified by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and received by the
Bank with all supporting detail in not more than two months after
the close of the appropriate year.
The purpose of the quarterly calculations is to provide an early warning of
possible non-compliance enabling Endesa and the government to take timely
corrective action.



- 15 -
Financing plan
6.09      Similar to its past practice (used in previous Bank appraisals),
Endesa has prepared financial projections in US$ terms, which have been
converted to Chilean peso terms at the prevailing exchange rate and adjusted
to include the effect of expected worldwide inflation on Endesa's investment
plan. This procedure is the most appropriate under the prevailing infationary
conditions and is predicated on the assumption that the exchange rate will
continue to reflect the differences betweeen internal and external price
changes.
6.10      During the four-year project period 1977-80, net internal cash
generation, assuming that Endesa achieves real annual rates of return
stipulated in the loan agreement (paragraph 6.08), would finance 38% of its
large (US$960 million) construction program plus additions to working capital.
Endesa's low debt service would allow its internal generation to be somewhat
higher than other utilities', but that low debt service is more than offset by
taxes and customs duties which the utility pays. The 38% self-financing ratio
is satisfactory.
6.11      In Endesa's financing plan, 31% of the total financing (approxi-
mately the foreign cost of the construction program) is to be provided by
borrowings, and the remaining 31% by contributions, almost all of which are
to be from the government. Of the total Ch $4.75 billion (US$297 million) of
contributions, approximately Ch $2.24 billion (US$140 million) represents a
re-transfer by the government for customs duties, sales taxes and income taxes
which Endesa will pay during the four-year period. During negotiations it was
agreed that the government would cover, as and when needed, the local-currency
component of the project currently estimated at US$89 million equivalent.
6.12      The Bank normally does not encourage electric utilities to meet a
large portion of their financing plan from government contributions because
such dependence may lead to undue government control of their expansion plans
and influence over their operations. However, it has in the past agreed that
Endesa lacked suitable alternatives (i.e., long-term loans at reasonable rates
of interest). With the extreme degree of inflation which has existed in Chile
since 1970, the lack of suitable methods of financing is even more pronounced,
and there is for the present little alternative but to continue this policy.
During project supervision, however, the Bank would pursue with the government
and Endesa the desirability of substituting long-term loans from public or
private sources for government contributions, with the purpose of establishing
better financial discipline at Endesa and reducing the inflationary impact of
contributions for Endesa on the government's budget.
6.13      Endesa's financing plan is detailed in annex 17 and summarized
below:



- 16 -
Financing Plan 1977-80
Millions of   Millions
Pesos         of US$        Percentages
Requirements of funds
Construction program:
The project                              1974          123.4            13
Antuco hydro (A)                         3195          199.7            21
Colbun-Machicura hydro (A)               4103          256.4)
Neltume hydro (A)                         809           50.6)
Other generation                         1034           64.6)
Transmission                             1894          118.4)           64
Distribution-company systems
and general                           1302            81.4)
Interest during construction (IDC)        732           45.8)
Total construction program           15043            940.3           98
Increase in working capital               320            20.0            2
Total requirements                    15363           960.3          100
Sources of funds
Gross internal cash generation           8328           520.5
Less debt service - excl. IDC            2541           158.8
Net internal cash generation          5787            361.7           38
Borrowings:
Existing loans                         795             49.7
Proposed IBRD loan                     560             35.0
Other proposed borrowings               640            40.0
Future foreign-currency loans         2840            177.5
Total borrowings                    4835           302.2            31
Contributions (98% government)           4741           296.4           31
Total sources                      15363           960.3           100
(A)  Amounts represent partial disbursements.  In the case of Antuco, over
US$80 million was spent before 1977. In the case of the other hydro
developments, disbursements would continue into the mid-1980s.
6.14      The proposed Bank loan would be for a term of 17 years including
3 1/2 years of grace, at the current Bank interest rate (assumed to be 8.7%).
It would be guaranteed by the Republic of Chile.
6.15      Endesa signed a US$75.3 million 25-year (with 6 grace years) 8%
loan with IDB in August 1974 for the foreign cost of the Antuco project and
other studies (see annex 8) and arranged several other credits, the largest
of which were:
a.   a US$12 million 8 1/2-year 8.5% credit from Marubeni (Japan)
for 96 MW of gas turbines for isolated or semi-isolated
systems;



- 17 -
b.   a US$22 million 15-year floating rate credit from Marubeni (Japan)
for 120 MW of gas turbines (see paragraph 4 of Annex 7);
c.   a US$10 million 8 1/2-year 8.5% credit from the Mexican government,
only about US$2 million of which has been used for miscellaneous
substation equipment.
6.16      The company is currently negotiating:
a.   two 3- to 5-year floating-rate Canadian bank loans totalling
US$13 million to help finance cost overruns of the Antuco project;
b.   a US$30 million credit from South Africa for the foreign cost of
the 220 kV transmission line from the CIS to Huasco; and
c.   three 3- to 5-year floating-rate loans totalling US$8 million for
small generating works and spare parts.
Its expected future borrowings include loans for the foreign-currency compo-
nents of the Colbun-Machicura and Neltume hydroelectric developments and other
projects. It has applied to the Bank for assistance in financing Colbun-
Machicura but has not initiated action on the other loans.
Future earnings and financial position
6.17      Annexes 18 and 15 show Endesa's forecast income statements and
balance sheets, which assume prompt implementation of tariff increases neces-
sary to achieve satisfactory rates of return. Because of its dependence on
government contributions instead of borrowings, Endesa's future debt/equity
ratios will continue to be low, and its debt-service coverage ratios, high.
As shown in annex 14, its debt/equity ratio will vary from 23/77 to 26/74 in
the project period, and its debt-service coverage ratio, from 1.9 to 4.1.
6.18      The debt-service coverage test included in existing loan agreements
allows Endesa to annualize tariffs (i.e., to take into account tariffs in
effect at the time of incurrence of debt for which permission is sought as if
they had been in effect during the prior twelve months) but does not require
it to annualize expenses. This provision distorts the test, because it in-
flates revenues when Endesa receives frequent tariff increases (as in 1974-76)
and consequently inflates the utility's apparent debt-service coverage. There-
fore, the proposed loan agreement repeats provisions whereby Endesa will not
incur long-term debt without the Bank's approval unless its most recent
12-month internal cash generation is at least 1.5 times its maximum debt
service for any succeeding fiscal year, except those provisions which allow
Endesa to annualize tariffs in effect when permission is sought or the debt
is incurred.



- 18 -
7. Agreements Reached and Recommendations
7.01      The proposed loan and/or guarantee agreements provide:
(a) that the Bank will be furnished studies of Chilectra's tariff
structures and provided reasonable opportunity to comment on
the conclusions of such studies (para 2.12);
(b) for Endesa to achieve a financial rate of return of 3% in real
terms in 1977, 6% in 1978 and 9% p.a. in 1979 and future years
(para 6.08), with disbursements above US$12 million conditioned
to its attaining the 3% rate stipulated for 1977 (para 3.08);
and
(c) for repetition of existing debt-service coverage covenants, except
for clauses concerning annualization of revenues (paragraph 6.18).
7.02      The proposed loan would not be declared effective until legal amend-
ments to be proposed by the government to the Legislative Commission had been
incorporated in the regulatory law (para 2.11).
7.03      With assurances on the above, the project would constitute a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$35 million for a term of 17 years including 3 1/2
years of grace.
December 1, 1976



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT
CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (ENDESA)
Organization of the Electric Power Sector
1.        For administrative purposes, Endesa has divided Chile into seven
geographic regions, as indicated on the map attached to report. Attachment 1
shows total capacity, generation (including captive plants) and population by
region for 1975, and attachment 2 shows electricity consumption by sector.
2.        About 87% of Chile's population lives in the central zone (regions
3, 4 and 5), which accounted for 80% of the 8,732 GWh generated in Chile in
1975. This zone and the southern half of region 2 are provided electricity
by the Central Interconnected System (CIS). As shown in attachment 3, Endesa
generated 77% of the electricity produced in the CIS in 1975. Endesa also
distributes electricity in areas of the CIS not served by other distribution
companies.
3.        Population in the two northern and two southern zones (regions 1,
2, 6 and 7) is sparse. The largest electric installations in region 1 are
captive plants which serve the needs of the copper and nitrate industries
located there and are connected to Endesa's system. Endesa is the principal
supplier of electricity in the other sparsely populated regions.
4.         Since its formation in 1944, Endesa has had responsibility for im-
plementing the provisions of Chile's national electrification plan. It has
the right of first refusal on construction of all major new generating facil-
ities; it plans and constructs the transmission system; it will directly
control all CIS generation and transmission upon installation of the load-
dispatching and control center included in its current program and it has
been responsible for implementing Chile's rural electrification program. As
shown in annex 3, 35% of the rural population had been connected by 1975 to
various distribution networks. In view of the urgent need, Endesa plans to
accelerate this program in the next few years.
5.        Endesa generates electricity at 12 hydro installations ranging in
size from 3.0 to 400 MW and at 25 thermal installations, from 75 kW diesel
units in isolated locations to the 125 MW coal-fired Bocamina steam unit.
Capacity and 1975 generation of its larger units are shown in Attachment 3.
Its plants are linked to load centers by 5,041 km of single- and double-
circuit (equivalent to 6,785 circuit-km) of transmission and subtransmission
lines operated at 220, 154, 110 and 66 kV. Its distribution companies have
6,312 km of primary distribution lines. Location of the principal generating
stations, substations and lines is shown on the map.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        The other sector entities (except small isolated rural cooperatives)
are CIS distribution companies, which also own some generating facilities but
depend on Endesa for most of their electricity supply. The largest of these
is Chilectra, which serves Chile's largest cities - Santiago and Valparaiso -
and produced 21% of electricity generated in the CIS in 1975. Corfo purchased
a controlling interest in Chilectra from the American & Foreign Power
Corporation in 1970; it now owns almost all Chilectra's shares. Two other
small distribution companies - Cia. General de Electricidad Industrial (CGEI)
and Cia. Nacional de Fuerza Electrica (Conafe) and energy sales of captive
plants to the public system account for the remaining 1% of public-service
electricity generation in the CIS.
Attachment 1
Attachment 2
Attachment 3



ELECTRICITY AND POPULATION STATISTICS
GENERATING CAPACITY, ENERGY GENERATION/CONSUMPTION
AND POPULATION BY REGIONS - 1975
Region I       Region 2        Region 3         Region 4        Region 5        Region 6          Region 7      Total
GENERATING CAPACITY - in MW
Thermal                                                         380.9          158.6           368.5             203.6          5.7              5.0              35.7        1158.0
Hydro                                                            10.4           20.5           805.3             536.6         85.6              3.3               0.6        1462.3
Total                                                           391.3          179.1          1173.8             740.2         91.3             8.3               36.3        2620.3
ENDESA                                                           66.4           43.2           605.7            661.0          83.6             5.4               19.1        1484.4
Other public-service companies                                    1.4            0.0 (A)       368.7               5.7          1.0              1.2               0.0 (A)    378.0
Captive plants                                                  323.5          135.9           199.4              73.5          6.7             1.7               17.2         757.9
Total                                                           391. 73        179.1          1173.8             740.2         91.3             8.3               36.3        2620.3
Percentage                                                       14.9            6.8            44.8              28.3          3.5             0.3                1.4         100.0
ENERGY GENERATION - in GWh
Thermal                                                        1180.8          382.7           717.6             225.7          7.2              2.4              81.0        2597.4
Hydro                                                            72.4           51.8          4002.0            1487.2        507.4             12.7               1.1        6134.6
Total                                                          1253.2          434.5          4719.6            1712.9        514.6             15.1              82.1        8732.0
ENDESA                                                          215.2           73.5          2575.9            1490.5        502.7             13.0              39.3        4910.1
Other public-service companies                                    1.9            0.1          1287.2               0.2          2.9             0.4                0.1        1292.8
Captive plants                                                 1036.1          360.9           856.5             222.2          9.0              1.7              42.7        2529.1
Total                                                          1253.2          434.5          4719.6            1712.9        514.6             15.1              82.1        8732.0
Percentage                                                       14.4            5.0            54.0              19.6          5.9             0.2                0.9         100.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION - (incl. losses) in GWh
Public-service consumption supplied by:
ENDESA                                                       215.2           301.9          2475.1           1491.5         361.5            25.6               39.3        4910.1
Other companies                                                 1.9            0.1          1287.2               0.2          2.9             0.4                0.1        1292.8
Captlve plants                                                 29.9            3.9           118.8               --            --             --                 2.5 (B)    155.1
Total public-service                                          247.0          305.9          3881.1            1491.7        364.4             26.0              41.9        6358.0
Private consumption supplied by captive plants                 1006.2          357.0           737.7             222.2          9.0              1.7              42.7        2376.5
Total consumption                                              1253.2          662.9          4618.8            1713.9        373.4             27.7              84.6        8734.5
Consumption per inhabitant - in kWh                                                                                                                                                             n
Public-service                                               491             537             624             930            308             146                408           614
Total                                                        2491           1164             743             1069           316              156               824           844
POPULATION - in thousands                                         503.1          569.3          6215.5           1603.6        1181.7            177.8              102.7       10353.7
- percentage                                            4.9             5.5            60.0            15.5           11.4             1.7                1.0         100.0
Notes: A. Less than 0.1 NW
B. 2.5 GWh purchased from Argentina
November 1976



ANNEX 1
Attachment 2
CONSUMPTION OF ELECTRIC ENERGY IN CHILE 1969-75
(in GWh)
1969     1970      1971      1972      1973     1974      1975
Industrial
Copper                 1,719    1,808    2,152    2,122    1,955    2,243    2,062
Paper                     578      607       600       609       577       667      696
Nitrate                   255      285       348       321       317       317      298
Iron and steel           265       266       285       299       286      308       247
Cement                    200      190       191       192       188      198       152
Petroleum                  99      100       122       132       137       144      132
Coal                      105      105       117       118       123      129       119
Sugar                      54       59        55        55        54        53       69
Other                  1,115    1,167    1,338    1,468    1,421    1,444    1,354
Total                4,390    4,587    5,208    5,316    5,058    5,503    5,129
Less captive genera-
tion                 2,490    2,552    2,731    2,666    2,473    2,666    2,376
Industrial consumption
supplied by public-
service system       1,900    2,035    2,477    2,650    2,585    2,837    2,753
Other public-service:
Residential               827      892       995    1,198    1,323    1,364    1,393
Commercial                336      366       387       408       388       431      415
Government                264      297       334       360       371       382      416
Transport                 196      202       216       232       194       200      176
Irrigation                202      211       216       223       223      253        18
Public lighting           170      183       197       221       222       231      240
Total public-service
consumption          3,895    4,186    4,822    5,292    5,306    5,698    5,411
November 1976



ANNEX 1
Attachment 3
GENERATING CAPACITY AND ENERGY GENERATED FOR PUBLIC SERVICE
CENTRAL INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM
IN 1975
Capacity in MW                  Energy in GWh
COMPANY                Thermal    Hydro       Total        Thermal      Hydro     Total
Endesa:
Bocamina             125.0                                4.8
Rapel                            350.0                                866.5
Cipreses                        101.4                                 652.9
El Toro                         400.0                               1,144.2
Abanico                          136.0                                341.4
Other                 26.8      253.9                    49.8       1,582.9
Total Endesa           151.8    1,241.3       1,393.1      54.6       4,587.9      4,642.5
Chilectra:
Ventanas             115.0                              557.0
Renca                100.0                               78.4
Other                 54.7        94.9                    4.3         641.8
Total Chilectra        269.7        94.9      -364.       639,7         641.8     1,281.5
C.G.E.I.                 5.5         3.4          8.9                     4.1          4.1
Conafe                               1.5           1.5                    4.4          4.4
Sub-total              427.0    1,341.1       1,768.1    694.3        5,238.2     5,932.5
Captive plants                      54.3          54.3                  118.8        118.8
TOTAL                  427.0    1,395.4       1,822.4      694.3      5,357.0     6,051.3
November 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT
CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (ENDESA)
Electricity Demand in Chile
1.        To forecast future demands for electric power and energy, Endesa
analyzes historical trends in electricity consumption, which it correlates
to other economic indicators, such as gross regional product in each of the
geographic zones it serves. In its 1969-70 power development plan (see
Annex 7), Endesa established that electricity consumption in the CIS had
grown by about 8% annually and extrapolated this trend in determining its
future system requirements.
2.        As shown in page 2 of this annex, actual consumption throughout
1969-70 was lower than the forecast based on extrapolation of this long-term
trend, as Chile's economy was recovering from the effects of a severe drought
in 1968-69. After meeting the forecast demand curve in 1971 and exceeding it
in early 1972, electricity consumption stagnated until late 1973, reflecting
the chaotic economic conditions then existing.
3.        After a short-lived surge in late 1973-early 1974 (caused in large
part by resumption of large-scale industrial and mining activity), electricity
consumption declined to its 1972-73 levels in 1975, reflecting the economic
recession of that year. As the economy has recovered in 1976, so has electri-
city usage, particularly by industrial/mining users.
4.        Endesa's forecast of energy and capacity requirements and its program
to meet those requirements through 1986 are shown on page 3 of this annex. The
overall growth in energy requirements over the ten-year period is equivalent
to about 7.5% annual growth with year-to-year variations based on Endesa's
knowledge of new industrial loads in the late 1970s.
5.        To meet the forecast energy requirements Endesa has formulated
(assuming a 95% dry year energy availability) a construction program whose
principal components are three large hydro developments with capacity of
about 1250 MJ to be placed in operation by 1986. The overall program is dis-
cussed in Annex 7, and the hydro developments, in Annexes 8 and 9.



CHILE - INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM
ELECTRIC ENERGY CONSUMPTION
CONSUMPTION
GWH/MONTH
(AVERAGE QUATERLY GWH/MONTH CORRECTED FOR SEASONAL VARIATION)
550--
530 -                       _ -          _ -         _ -                              _ _ -
510
CONSUMPTION
47       00--                                                         -       -
450-                                                  -       -       -      -
430-              -      -
410 --          ----                                                   --
390     ~             -----
370            -     -    -
J M   J   S   D  M   J   S   D  M   J   S   D   M   J   S   D  M   J   S  D  M   J   S   D   M   J   S   D   M   J   S  D
1969      I     1970      I      1971     I      1972      I      1973     I      1974      I      1975      I      1976
World Bank 16685



CHILE - ENDESA
LOAD FORECAST AND GENERATING PLANT PROGRAM
CENTRAL INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM 1975 - 1986
CENTRAL INTERCINNECTED SYSTEM                                                          PLANNED ADDITIONS TO AND RETIREMENTS
1975-86 ENERGY AND POWER tBALANCE                                                          FROM GENERATING CAPACITY 1976 - 86
Demand                                                                        Energy
(MW)                                                                         (GWh)
4,000  -   _   _                                        - _  _   _   _        -   19,000
Year       Generating Plant          Type          Installed Capacity
3,500      0                     --_--_        _--_-_ _       ----_ _   _ 17,000
1976       Concepcion (CGEI)            T                -5,5
Guayacan Gas Turbine         T                 24,0
3,000  _   _         _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _            _   15,000            1977       Ventanas II (Chilectra)      T                210,0
Huasco Gas Turbines          T                48,0
2,500  13,000         1978       Huasco Diesel Groups          T                20,0
2,500  _   _ .       _   _   _        _   _                      -System           13,000                      Alto Polcura Diversion       H
_ apac iltnySta lled                                                                l  | \ -  |   _  } _ 1981  Antuco  H          300,0
2,000                                      _                                         _ | l                      \i l _ _ ~ SZ _ _ _ 11,000  Laguna Verde (Chilectra)  T  -54,7
1983       Colbun-Machicura             H                500,0
1,500                                                   - =          -   -   -    9,000             1986       Neltume                       H               450,0 (Estimate)
10                                        I  4r It              I I,  7,00 I.1 T = Thermal                                                                                  Ix
1,000 } 1217> _ S yster n Energy                    _                                       _ _ _ 7.000 H = Hydro
_ 1 - ~~~~~~~~Requirement_
500  _   = X              5 $        __0                                          5,000
Dry Year Energy               
0 _    | ~Available             _ _                        _ _ _ _
Year '70 '71 '72 '73 '74 '75 '76 '77 '78 '79 '80 '81 '82 '83 '84 '85 '86
World Bank-16684



ANNEX 3
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT
CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (ENDESA)
Rural Electrification in Chile
History
1.        Since it was formed in 1944, Endesa has had principal responsibility
for the development of rural electrification in Chile. From the late 1940s
until now, the utility has formed eleven distribution companies (which or-
ganizationally are divisions of Endesa) in five distinct geographic regions
of Chile and acquired control of two distribution companies, which retain
separate boards of directors and staffs. These 13 distribution agencies
serve the needs of smaller cities and rural areas outside the concession zones
of the three principal distributors - Chilectra, CGEI and Conafe. In addition,
14 cooperatives have been formed to serve the needs of other smaller and
more isolated rural villages.
2.        Of the total 500,000 potential rural electric customers, 35% or
175,000 have been connected to rural distribution lines. Of these, 150,000
are served by Endesa and its affiliates, and 25,000 by the cooperatives.
Rural Electrification Plan - 1977-82
3.        Endesa and the government have formulated a Rural Electrification
Plan which contemplates providing electric service to 100,000 additional
rural homes with a total population of 600,000 people and would increase the
percentage of rural population receiving electricity from 35% to about 50%.
Execution of this program is expected to take place between 1977 and 1982.
To carry out the plan, Endesa intends to construct or install the following
works:
Description                       Quantity
66 kV subtransmission lines                   189 km
66 kV substations                              98 (38 MVA)
primary distribution lines                 8,700 km
low-tension distribution lines             4,000 km
distribution transformers                 12,000



ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT-CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (ENDESA)
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
A.   PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Generation (GWh):
CIS                          5,170   4,724   5,241   5,646   5,535   6,208
Distr. Entities                308      330      350      374     400      482
Total                        5,478   5,054   5,591   6,020   5,935   6,690
Sales:
CIS                           4,861   4,436   4,902   5,308   5,261   5,873
Distr. Entities                 605      648      744      799     841      944
Losses (%) /1
-First Zone                       17      17       17       16       16      15
-Second Zone                      17      17       17       16       16      15
-Third Zone                       13      13       13       12       12      11
-Fourth Zone                      13      13       13       12      12       11
-Fifth Zone                       14      14       14       13      13       12
-Sixth Zone                      17       17       17       16      16       15
-Seventh Zone                      7       7        7        6        6       5
Outages - Distr. System (GWh)
CIS                            0.48    0.48    0.39    0.39    0.28    0.28
Others                         0.32    0.32    0.29    0.29    0.21    0.21
Rural Population with
Electricity Service (%)          35       37       39       41      43       45
No. of Employees
Operations /2                 2,502   2,600   2,640   2,670   2,770   2,840
Administration                  662      668      674      678     680      680
Construction                  2,478   2,478   2,478   2,478   2,478   2,478
Total                         5,642   5,746   5,792   5,826   5,928   5,998
/1   The total annual difference in kWh metered at the step-up substations
(low-voltage level) and the delivery substations (low-voltage level),
expressed as a percentage of kWh metered at the step-up substation.
/2   Personnel engaged in system operations, including related administrative
services.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Financial Indicators
Debt-service Coverage
(operating income +
depreciation) *' (amortization
+ interest charged to income)          0.8    1.9    3.0    4.1    4.1    3.9
Self-financing Ratio (percentage
of investment program financed
from net internal cash generation)       0      23     38     47      38     28
Debt/Equity Ratio (at year-end)    22/78  23/77  24/76  23/77  25/75  26/74
Depreciation Provision (as
percentage of average gross
plant value)                           2.5    2.4    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5
B.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Completion Date
1.   Loan Effectiveness                                    April 30, 1977
2.   Tarapaca System - Transmission works
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
IBRD approval                                     December 31, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                                  July 30, 1978
C.  Install and commission works                      December 31, 1979
3.   Tarapaca System - Distribution works
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
IBRD approval                                     February 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                                  August 1, 1977
C.  Install and commission works                      October 1, 1978
4.   Antofagasta System - Distribution works
A. Prepare specifications for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
IBRD approval                                    February 1, 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Completion Date
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                               August 1, 1978
C.  Install and commission works                    October 1, 1978
5.   Huasco System - Generation works
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
IBRD approval                                  January 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                               June 1, 1977
C.  Install and commission works                    April 1, 1978
6.   Huasco System - Transmission works
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
IBRD approval                                  June 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                               November 1, 1977
C.  Install and commission works                   December 1, 1978
7.   Huasco System - Distribution works
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
IBRD approval                                  February 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                               August 1, 1977
C.  Install and commission works                   October 1, 1978
8.   Central Interconnected System - Transmission
works # I
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
IBRD approval                                 June 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                              November 1, 1977
C.  Install and commission works                   December 15, 1978



ANNhL. 4
Page 4
Completion Date
9.   Central Interconnected System - Transmission
works # 2
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
,uaterial and/or equipmnent and obtain
IBkD approval                                  April 1, 1978
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                               October 1, 1978
C.  Install and commission works                   December 15, 1979
10.   Central Interconnected System - Transmission
works # 3
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
IBRD approval                                  October 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                               April 1, 1978
C.  Install and commission works                   June 1, 1979
11.   Central Interconnected System - Transmission
works == 4
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
IBRD approval                                  June 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                               April 1, 1978
C.  Install and commission works                   December 15, 1980
12.   Central Interconnected System - Transmission
works # 5
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
IBRD approval                                 July 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                              April 1, 1978
C.  Install and commission works                  December 15, 1980



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Completion Date
13. Central Interconnected System - Transmission
works # 6
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
IBRD approval                                    June 1, 1977
B.  Award contract for supply of material            April 1, 1978
and/or equipment
C.  Install and commission works                     December 30, 1980
14. Central Interconnected System - Transmission
works # 7
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
TBRD approval                                    July 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                                 November 1, 1977
C.  Install and commission works                     December 15, 1979
15. Central Interconnected System - Distribution works
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
IBRD approval                                    February 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                                 September 1, 1977
C.  Install and commission works                     December 1, 1978
16. Sixth and Seventh Region - Distribution works
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
IBRD approval                                    February 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                                 August 1, 1977
C.  Install and commission works                     December 31, 1978



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Completion Date
17. Isolated Rural Locations - Generating Plants
750 kW diesel generators
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
IBRD approval                                   March 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                                September 1, 1977
C.  Install and commission works                    December 31, 1978
18. Isolated Rural Location - Generating Plants
2000 kW diesel generators
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipment and obtain
IBRD approval                                    March 1, 1978
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                                 November 1, 1977
C.  Install and commission works                     December 31, 1979
19. Load Dispatching
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and/or equipments and obtain
IBRD approval                                    December 31, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of material
and/or equipment                                 September 30, 1978
C.  Install and commission works                     December 31, 1980
20. Transportation, Construction, Testing, Measuring,
Laboratory, Shop and Office Equipment and
Consulting Services



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Completion Date
20.1 Transmission and Subtransmission System
Construction
A. Prepare specification for purchase of
material and equipment and obtain IBRD
approval                                      February 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of materials
and/or equipment                              August 1, 1977
C.  Obtain delivery of equipment                  December 31, 1977
20.2 Primary Construction and Generating Plant
Maintenance
A. Prepare specifications for purchase of
materials and equipments and obtain
IBRD approval                                 March 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of materials
and/or equipment                              November 1, 1977
C. Obtain delivery of material
and/or equipment                              December 31, 1978
20.3 Distribution System Construction and Maintenance
A. Prepare specifications for purchase of
materials and equipments and obtain
IBRD approval                                 February 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of materials
and/or equipment                              August 1, 1977
C. Obtain delivery of material and/or
equipment                                     May 1, 1978
20.4 Studies of Future Plants and Consulting Services
A. Prepare specifications for purchase of
material and/or equipments and obtain
IBRD approval                                 July 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of materials
and/or equipment                              March 1, 1978



ANNEX 4
Page 8
Completion Date
C. Obtain delivery of material and/or
equipment                                      December 1, 1978
D. Prepare terms of reference for
consultants and obtain IBRD approval           July 1, 1977
E.  Sign contract with consultants                 December 1, 1977
F.  Prepare and publish reports                    December 31, 1978
20.4 Office and Laboratory Equipment
A. Prepare specifications for purchase of
materials and/or equipments and obtain
IBRD approval                                  January 1, 1977
B. Award contract for supply of materials
and/or equipment                               June 1, 1977
C. Obtain delivery of materials and/or
equipment                                      December 31, 1977
20.5 Spare Parts
A. Prepare specifications for purchase of
spare parts                                    January 1, 1977
B.  Award contract for supply of spare parts       June 1, 1977
C.  Obtain delivery of spare parts                 July 1, 1978



ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT
- CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (ENDESA)
Electric Utility Regulation in Chile
Regulatory Authorities
1.        Electric utilities in Chile are regulated under the provisions of
the Ley General de Servicios Electricos, DFL No. 4, July 24, 1959, as amended.
Under this law, the Superintendencia de Servicios Electricos, de Gas y de
Telecomunicaciones (Segtel) assures itself that the utilities have complied
with the law, and the Comision de Tarifas (the commission) establishes the rate
base and sets the tariffs. Segtel is under the Ministry of Interior, while
the commission is a public body presided over by Segtel's superintendent and
composed of representatives of the government, utilities and consumers; Segtel
serves as its technical advisor.
2.        Under a 1966 law, the Ministry of Economy reviews all tariff in-
creases before they are put into effect to ensure that they comply with gov-
ernment policies concerning control of inflation and prices of alternative
energy forms.
3.        The legislation fails to specify how often the commission should
meet or who should preside over it in the absence of the superintendent. In
past years the commission has met as infrequently as once a year and has been
unable to process all the tariff-increase applications before it.
4.        To reduce the possibilities of bureaucratic delays in processing such
applications, Endesa has proposed amendments to the law to provide:
a.   that an individual appointed by the minister of economy
represent that ministry on the commission to present its
views during the commission's deliberations;
b.   that the commission meet at least once a month; and
c.   the order of succession of acting presidents of the
commission in the absence of the superintendent.
Endesa's Distribution Companies
5.        As well as producing and transmitting bulk electricity in the CIS,
Endesa provides retail service through distribution companies arranged in
five groups: Norte grande, Norte chico, Central, Aysen and Magallanes. Of



ANNEX 5
Page 2
these, three are totally isolated from the interconnected system and a fourth
is effectively isolated because the transmission line connecting it with the
central system is of very low capacity. Because all four of the isolated
groups depend on relatively small, fuel-burning plants for most or all of
their generation (whereas the central interconnected system is principally
hydro) and because of internal pressure to keep their tariffs low, none has
ever realized a reasonable return, even with tariffs higher than comparable
rates in the central zone.
6.        In past loan agreements, no provision was made to have the distri-
bution companies earn the full 10% rate of return allowed by the law (see
paragraph 14), providing instead for gradual improvements in their rates of
return up to 6% in 1972. In fact, the distribution companies have not achieved
this level; their earnings have continued to be negative or marginal. Because
this situation results in underpricing of the distribution companies' electri-
city and reduces somewhat Endesa's self-financing capability, covenants in
the proposed loan agreement (see paragraph 6.08 of the text) provide for
Endesa as a whole to attain a rate of return of 9% p.a. in real terms begin-
ning in 1979. Because attainment of higher rates of return would be difficult
to achieve (given the legislation's nominal maximum of 10% p.a. together with
regulatory lag in an inflationary economic environment see paragraph 22) for
any component of Endesa's system, significant cross-subsidization of the
distribution companies by the CIS would also be difficult to achieve; the
distribution companies would have to attain rates of return of about 9% if the
company as a whole is to comply with the covenants.
Establishment of Rate Base
7.        According to the law, each utility's rate base is comprised of
utility plant in service (including intangibles, which are limited to 5% of
physical assets) less accumulated depreciation and amortization plus working
capital.
8.        The law provides for revaluation of rate-base assets based on their
estimated replacement cost every five years, subject to Segtel's review and
the commission's approval. Prior to 1969, Endesa revalued each of its assets
every five years after the in-service date of the particular asset, which
necessitated an interminable process of detailed estimating and review.
9.        To simplify the cumbersome revaluation process, Endesa submitted to
Segtel variations of all its property as of December 31, 1973, using broad
indices of construction cost. These revaluations increased the value of the
respective rate bases (CIS and distribution companies) by about 100%. Segtel
approved the revaluation of the CIS rate base in early 1975 but requested
Endesa to revalue the rate bases of its distribution companies on the basis
of the item-by-item system previously used, and Endesa complied with Segtel's
request. After the extensive period required by Segtel to review the item-by-
item revaluation, the distribution companies' rate base revaluations were
declared effective in late 1975.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
10.       Between replacement-cost revaluations, the law provides that util-
ities may revalue their rate base once a year in accordance with the cost of
living. Until late 1973, the regulatory authorities interpreted this provi-
sion to mean that the rate base for a given year would be its value, adjusted
by the year-to-year increase in Chile's Consumer Price Index (CPI), at
January 1 of that year. With price inflation, which rise to unprecedented
rates in the early 1970s, this interpretation renders the rate base meaning-
less. The law also specifies that new additions to the rate base in the six
months prior to the date of revaluation according to the Chilean CPI would not
be subject to such revaluation and that such revaluation cannot take place
within six months of the most recent replacement-cost revaluation. Endesa has
proposed the elimination of both these provisions.
11.       More importantly, it has proposed that the rate base be defined as
that existing at the end of the month prior to that in which tariffs are set,
revalued in accordance with the CPI, and that allowable depreciation corres-
pond to such rate base.
12.       Endesa has also proposed that the working capital component be
defined as 25% of the operating expenses estimated for the calendar year in
which the tariffs are fixed, because Segtel presently interprets similar
provisions in the existing law to refer to expenses of the previous year.
Rate of Return
13.       The law provides that tariffs be fixed to provide up to a 10% return
on the utility's rate base. It further provides for special accounting treat-
ment for earnings above 10% and allows Segtel to require tariff reduction for
half of any rate of return over 12%. In the case of a rate of return lower
than 10%, the law provides that such deficiencies may be offset against past
or future earnings over 10% but specifically prohibits the utility from re-
covering earnings deficiencies through tariffs.
14.       Segtel has interpreted the law to determine that the utility's rate
base for purposes of this earnings test is that at the beginning of the year.
As noted above, Endesa has proposed that the law define the rate base as that
existing at the end of the month preceding the adjustment of tariffs. Earn-
ings deficiencies would be established on the basis of the year-end rate
base.
15.       Endesa's principal division (which supplies electricity in bulk to
the central interconnected system) has been more profitable than the distribu-
tion companies, but it has never earned the 10% return provided by DFL no. 4,
even on a rate base undervalued by as much as 50% (paragraph 9). The closest
it ever came was in 1970, as shown below:



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Rate of Return on
Beginning of year
rate base estab-        Average Rate
lished by Segtel              base  1/
1969                           6.5%                    5.1
1970                           8.2                     6.3
1971                           5.3                     4.5
1972                           5.9                     1.0
1973                         - 5.0                  - 3.7
1974                                                - 0.1
/1   Rates of return on average rate bases through 1973 were calculated by:
computing annual depreciation provisions on average gross fixed assets;
adjusting operating income as reported by Endesa (which included only
depreciation provisions on the beginning-of-year asset balances) to
reflect such adjustments; and dividing operating income as adjusted by
average (beginning-and-end-year) rate bases. After 1973, beginning-of-
year rate base calculations have not been made.
16.       As shown below, Endesa's tariff increases for CIS have exceeded
the CPI increases by almost 20% for the overall period December 1970-October
1976. In the first half of the period (December 1970-Spetember 1973),Endesa
received only one adjustment - about 26% - while the official CPI registered
an increase of almost 850% (the real increase in the cost of living may well
have been higher, since goods were often unavailable at official prices
during much of 1972-73). Tariff increases of about 6,800% in late 1973 and
1974 were necessary to catch up with the inflation of 1971-73 and offset that
of 1974. In 1975-76, tariff increases 30% higher than CPI increases have
enabled Endesa's CIS to improve its operating return from negative to margi-
nal levels (see paragraph 17) but further increases relative to the CPI will
be necessary for the company to attain acceptable returns.
Percentage increase during        Ratio:  CIS
period                tariffs to CPI
CIS tariffs         CPI
Dec 1970 - Sep 1973                    26%             846%                0.03
Sep 1973 - Dec 1974                6,866               888                 7.73
Dec 1970 - Dec 1974                8,678             9,246                 0.94
Dec 1974 - Oct 1976                 1,297            1,007                 1.29
Dec 1970 - Oct 1976              122,600           103,400                 1.19
17.       Endesa and the government are fully conscious of the need for fur-
ther rate increases, not only to earn a reasonable return but also to price
electricity realistically (Endesa's average bulk rate in late 1976 was about



ANNEX 5
Page 5
US41.9/kWh). However, more drastic increases in electric rates to achieve an
adequate rate of return in 1974-75 would have been extremely difficult to put
into effect. Instead, the Government has established a policy of gradual
restoration of Endesa's rate of return through frequent tariff adjustments
which have been somewhat in excess of the CPI. This has resulted in Endesa's
annualized monthly rates of return improving from negative levels in most of
1975 to about 1-2% in 1976, as itemized below:
Interconnected               Total
Month                                   System                    Endesa
January 1975                              - 1.2%                    - 1.6%
February                                  + 0.3                     + 0.5
March                                     - 0.3                     - 0.6
April                                     - 1.3                     - 1.7
May                                       - 1.4                     - 2.1
June                                      - 0.4                     - 1.5
July                                      + 1.4                     + 0.7
August                                    + 0.2                     - 0.6
September                                 - 0.7                     - 0.9
October                                   - 0.6                     - 0.2
November                                  - 0.3                     - 0.3
December                                    0                       - 0.1
January 1976                              + 2.0                     + 1.9
February                                  + 1.6                     + 1.5
March                                     + 2.1                     + 1.5
April                                     + 1.9                     + 1.6
May                                       + 3.4                     + 2.1
June                                      + 2.1                     + 0.9
July                                      + 2.3                     + 1.0
August                                    + 2.8                     + 1.7
18.       Continued application of this policy of gradual improvement in
Endesa's rate of return is foreseen in the targets set (see paragraph 6.08 of
the text) for the project implementation period, viz, a 3% rate of return in
1977, 6% in 1978 and 9% p.a. in 1979 and succeeding years. While the 1977-78
target levels are lower than those which the Bank generally considers appro-
priate for electric utilities, the recommended level of earnings would enable
Endesa to finance about 38% of its 1977-80 construction program, including the
project, from net internal cash generation, which would be acceptable (see
paragraph 6.10 of the text).
Frequency of Tariff Revisions
19.       The law allows a utility to request tariff increases once a year
if they have failed to earn an allowable return during the previous year,
and to make one additional application during the year if its salaries or



ANNEX 5
Page 6
the price of fuel or purchased electricity has increased by 10% or more.
After each of these two applications, the law provides for the possibility
of granting a provisional tariff increase (authorized by Segtel) and a
definitive one (authorized by the commission). The law also permits the
utilities to provide additional data after their original application has
been made to support a higher rate increase than originally sought.
20.       Whereas previous governments had interpreted the law in various
ways to postpone and/or reduce rate increases sought by Endesa, the present
government has allowed Endesa 22 rate increases from October 1973 through
October 1976; as shown below, rate adjustments have been put into effect
practically on a monthly basis since mid-1975. (The data below are for CIS
bulk rates; Endesa's distribution companies' rate increases have been similar.)
Date of effectiveness                  Percentage increase
October 29, 1973                               500
February 7, 1974                               100
July 1, 1974                                   219
October 16, 1974                                40
December 30, 1974                               30
February 1, 1975                                35
May 24, 1975                                    90
July 3, 1975                                    17.9
August 2, 1975                                  11.0
October 4, 1975                                 17.0
November 5, 1975                                15.0
December 6, 1975                                10.5
January 6, 1976                                 10.5
February 7, 1976                                11.3
February 12, 1976                                2.0
March 6, 1976                                   12.5
April 12, 1976                                  23.4
May 25, 1976                                    13.0
June 21, 1976                                   11.0
July 26, 1976                                    6.0
September 24, 1976                              12.0
October 25, 1976                                 8.0
21.       Endesa has proposed changes to the law which would allow utilities
to apply for tariff increases whenever any of the expenses specified in para-
graph 19 or the CPI changes by more than 10%, without limitation on the number
of applications permissible during a year.
22.       While other proposals (see paragraphs 23-25) are designed to speed
up the processing of tariff-increase applications, some regulatory lag is in-
evitable. Therefore, it is highly likely that utilities in Chile will have
difficulty in achieving the allowable 10% return until inflation rates decrease.
Therefore, it was agreed during negotiation by Endesa and the goverment that,



ANNEX 5
Page 7
if the rate of return should fall below 8%, the utility should be allowed to
recover such earnings deficiency through tariffs. It was also agreed that,
the following provisions concerning earnings deficiencies should be included
in a further proposed legal change:
a.   that the earnings deficiency should be recovered through
tariffs in the year immediately following the year of the
earnings deficiency;
b.   that it should not be credited against the earnings of the
year which it is recovered; and
c.   that provisions concerning earnings deficiencies should not
apply to years before 1979.
Acceleration of Regulatory Review
23.       The law requires the utility to publish the proposed new tariffs in
Chile's Diario Oficial and in a newspaper in the area to be affected and gives
interested parties 15 days, counted from whichever publication is the later,
to file comments. In practice, the utility now must await receipt of author-
ization from Segtel to make the publication. To speed up this process,
Endesa has proposed changes in the law to allow the utility to publish its
tariff proposals once they have been received by Segtel and to reduce the time
(to 10 days from the first publication or 5 from the second) in which third
parties can file comments.
24.       The law provides that, once approved by regulatory authorities, the
modified tariffs are to be published in the same manner as the proposed
tariffs and are to be effective 15 days after whichever publication is later.
Endesa has proposed the removal of the 15-day delay, so that the tariffs
would be put into effect upon their publication.
25.       While the law requires Segtel to present its findings concerning
a tariff-increase application to the commission within 60 days of filing,
it does not provide for action to be taken if Segtel fails to meet this
obligation. Endesa has therefore proposed that, if the commission has not
resolved a tariff-increase filing within 120 days of its publication in the
Diario Oficial, the proposed tariff will be put into effect. In discussions
with the Bank, Endesa and the government agreed that the 120-day period
was too long, particularly in times when the CPI could double in that period.
Consequently, the government would amend the proposals already made by Endesa
to reduce the period from 120 to 60 days.
Government Discount
26.       The law provides for a 25% discount to be applied to all charges
for electricity supplied to national or municipal governments. Endesa has
proposed that such discount be abolished.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
Summary of Proposed Changes in the Law
27.       During negotiations it was agreed that the government would propose
to the legislative commission the following modifications to the Ley General
de Servicios Electricos (D.F.L. No. 4):
(a) that a representative of the Ministry of Economy be a member
of the tariff commission;
(b) that the tariff commission meet at least once a month;
(c) that an order of succession of acting presidents of the tariff
commission in the absence of the superintendent of electric
services, gas and telecommunications be established;
(d) that rate base revaluations no longer exclude assets put into
service in the six-month period preceding such revaluation;
(e) that existing clauses, which prohibit rate base valuation in
accordance with the Chilean CPI within six months of a replace-
ment cost revaluation, be abolished;
(f) that the rate base be defined as that existing at the end of
the month prior to that in which tariffs are set, revalued in
accordance with the CPI or replacement costs, as appropriate;
(g) that allowable depreciation correspond to the rate base defined
in subparagraph (f) above;
(h)   that the working capital component of the rate base be defined
as 25% of the operating expenses estimated for the current year;
(i) that the properly-valued rate base existing at the end of the
year be defined as the basis for determining a utility's rate
of return for that year;
(j) that utilities be allowed to apply for tariff increases whenever
their salaries, the price of fuel or purchased electricity or
the Chilean CPI has increased by 10% or more, without limitation
on the number of such applications;
(k) that utilities be allowed to publish proposed new tariffs imme-
diately after filing tariff-increase applications;
(1) that the time allowed third parties to make comments on such
applications be shortened;
(m)  that new tariffs be put into effect upon the publication of their
approval;



ANNEX 5
Page 9
(n) that in the absence of regulatory action, tariff-increase
applications be put into effect 60 days after filing;
(o) that discounts for the sale of electricity to national or
municipal governments and their agencies be abolished; and
(p) that utilities may recover revenue deficiencies (defined as
net income from operations below 8% per annum on a rate base
as defined in subparagraph i above) for any year after 1978
by increasing as required the rates for the sale of electri-
city during the year immediately following the year in which
such deficiency occurs and crediting the additional revenues
thus generated to the year in which the revenue deficiency
concerned occured.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT
CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (ENDESA)
Electric Tariff Structures in Chile
Endesa Tariffs
1.        In designing Endesa's tariff structures, its rate engineers have
attempted to provide price incentives to stimulate the efficient use of
electricity. These incentives are illustrated in its bulk tariffs (detailed
in attachment 1), which apply to industrial customers, distributing utilities
and cooperatives (slight variations in the demand charge for Chilectra exist
because of Endesa's multiple delivery points to that company).
2.        Endesa's tariff structure reflects the influence of Electricite de
France (EdF), which has provided training to Endesa's rate engineers; its
tariffs are similar to EdF's "green tariffs". As shown on attachment 1,
Endesa's bulk energy rates are 25-30% lower for monthly consumption above 250
kWh/kW than for consumption to that point, which is equivalent to one eight-
hour shift. This is designed to stimulate multi-shift operation and thereby
improve Endesa's load factor. Endesa also charges its larger customers
(with demand above 10,000 kW) for reactive energy consumed during hours of
peak demand.
3.        The retail tariffs of Endesa's distribution companies are also
designed to stimulate efficient utilization. The tariff schedules of all
distribution companies except Aysen follow the format of the Norte Grande
company (attachment 2); the Aysen schedule is shown as attachment 3. The
Norte Grande tariff schedule has the following noteworthy features:
a.   lower charges for basic residential consumption (90 kWh)
than for consumption above that level;
b.   charges for residential off-peak consumption for cooking
and heating which are about 23% lower than normal charges;
and
c.   hourly metering systems for large industrial use which
provides a discount of about 25% for off-peak energy usage;
d.   no charge for off-peak demand of industrial customers.
The discounts provided for basic residential and off-peak usage vary among
the distribution companies, depending on the characteristics of each system.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        The Aysen tariff structure is similar to the other companies' in
all respects except residential and commercial, where it is experimental. For
two years the Aysen company has established an hourly metering system for large
(over 150 kWh/month winter consumption) residential and commercial customers
to see if improved system operating conditions resulting from such a system
would offset the extra costs which the system requires. As compared to
standard tariffs (which do not involve hourly metering), the Aysen system
offers off-peak energy charges at a discount of about 50% and peak-period
consumption at a premium of about 250%. After almost two years, Endesa has
found that even such apparently strong financial incentives have had no
noticeable effect on the load factor. It plans to terminate the experiment at
the end of this year.
Chilectra Tariffs
5.        Chilectra's tariff structure, detailed in attachment 4, is differ-
ent in several respects from Endesa's. Besides the obvious anomalies, such
as differing demand charges according to amount of demand and customer
classification and lack of separation between small and large industrial loads
(except for deliveries at 66 kV - not shown in the attachment - for which
tariffs are comparable to Endesa's bulk tariffs), it is noteworthy that
Chilectra's tariffs do not attempt to stimulate more efficient energy con-
sumption by promoting off-peak usage.
6.        To some degree, this is traceable to Chilectra's status, until 1970,
as a private company; the interests of its owners were served by stimulating
energy sales through declining-block rates as long as it could buy energy
more cheaply than it sold it. At the same time, it was not obligated to
provide the increased capacity which its customers demanded, because Endesa
had been given primary responsibility for developing new sources of elec-
tricity generation.
7.        Chilectra has already made some progress in improving its tariff
structure: the format of its residential tariff schedule now conforms to
that of other distribution companies, and its charges for basic residen-
tial consumption now exceed the marginal cost of electric energy, which they
formerly did not. Chilectra recently engaged an individual consultant to
study its tariff structure and recommend further improvements.
Attachment 1
Attachment 2
Attachment 3
Attachment 4



ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
MONTHLY BULK TARIFFS OF ENDESA CENTRAL
INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM - EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 25, 1976
(in Desos Der kWh)
First 250 kWh per         Excess over 250 kWh
kW of maximum             monthly per kW of
monthly demand            maximum monthly demand
Second region:
Zone A (northern)                 0.470                          0.336
Zone B (southern)                 0.322                          0.228
Third region:
Zone A (northern)                 0.229                          0.159
Zone B (central)                  0.209                          0.144
Zone C (southern)                 0.199                          0.138
Fourth region                       0.188                          0.138
Fifth reg*on                        0.174                          0.133
Notes
A.  Demand charge - all regions:
Ch$ 26.81/kW monthly maximum demand
B. Above demand and energy charges are for delivery at 66 kV, metered
at Endesa substations. For 154 kV deliveries, Endesa gives a 2%
discount. For 66 kV deliveries metered outside its substations or
for 13.2 kV or 23 kV inside, Endesa has separate tariff schedules
which are equivalent to a surcharge of about 4%. For deliveries at
13.2 kV or 23 kV metered outside its substations, Endesa 's separate
tariff schedules are equivalent to a surcharge of about 10%.



ANNEX 6
Attachment 2
MONTHLY RETAIL TARIFFS EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 25, 1976
FOR ENDESA DISTRIBUTION COMPANY IN
NORTE GRANDE REGION
(Ch$/kWh unless otherwise noted)                     Hourly
Peak                Off-peak
Standard   (5 to 11 p.m.)    (11 p.m. to
5 P.m. of
Residential - normal consumption                                            following day)
First 90 kWh                              1.07
Excess over 90 kWh                        1.38
Minimum bill (in Ch $)                   21.38
Residential - separate-circuit
consumption for water/space
heating and cooking, controlled
by automatic cut-off device to
provide service only in,off-peak
hours
All consumption                                                              1.07
Minimum bill (in Ch $)                                                      32.06
Commercial
First 250 kWh                             2.53
Next 1,750 kWh                            2.11
Total above 2,000 kWh                     1.79
Minimum bill (in Ch $)                  126.53
Small industrial (up to 10 kW)
First 1,000 kWh                           2.33
Next 1,500 kWh                            1.95
Total above 2,500 kWh                     1.65
Minimum bill (in Ch $)                  232.95
Large industrial (see note)
First 4,000 kWh                           1.41                               1.32
Next 26,000 kWh                            1.18                              1.10
Next 170,000 kWh                           1.10
Excess above 30,000 kWh                                                      1.01
Excess above 170,000 kWh                  1.04
All consumption                                         1.38
Demand charge (in Ch$/kW - metered)    57.73           57.73                 N.A.
Minimum bill (in Ch $)                  Demand charge           43.30*
* in Ch$/kW of potential demand
Note: Hourly metering is obligatory for industrial customers with connected
loads greater than 50 kW and optional for customers with connected
loads between 10 and 50 kW.



At'INEX h
Attachment 3
MONTHLY RETAIL TARIFFS EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 25, 1976
FOR ENDESA DISTRIBUTION COMPANY IN AYSEN
(Ch$/kWh unless otherwise noted)                        Hourly
Peak             Off-peak
(5 to 11 p.m.) (11 p.m. to
5 p.m. of
Standard                         following day)
Residential
First 70 kWh                                               0.84
Next  20 kWh                                               1.71
First 90 kWh                             0.62                              0.28
Excess over 90 kWh                       1.25              4.26            0.70
Minimum bill (in Ch $)                  12.42             12.42
Commercial
First 250 kWh                            2.17
Next 1,750 kWh                           1.81
Excess over 2,000 kWh                    1.55
First 100 kWh                                              2.81
Excess over 100 kWh                                        5.65
All consumption                                                             0.62
Minimum bill (in Ch $)                 108.56            108.56
Small industrial (up to 10 kW)
First 250 kWh                            1.79
Next 1,750 kWh                           1.51
Excess over 2000 kWh                     1.27
First 100 kWh                                              2.35
Excess over 100 kWh                                        4.68
All consumption                                                             0.52
Minimum bill (in Ch $)                   179.87            179.87
Large industrial (over 10 kW)
First 4,000 kWh                          0.62                               0.58
Next 26,000 kWh                          0.52                               0.42
Excess over 30,000 kWh                                                      0.36
Next 170,000 kWh                         0.44
Excess over 200,000 kWh                  0.34
All consumption                                            0.80
Demand charge (in Ch $/kW-metered)   43.66                43.66            N.A.
Minimum bill                                      Demand charge 32.74*
* in Ch $/kW of potential demand
Note:  Hourly metering is obligatory for larger consumers in each classification
and voluntary for smaller consumers. For residential consumption average
monthly consumption during the previous winter (April through September)
of over 150 kWh is considered large; for commercial and small industrial,
200 kWh; for large industrial, those with installed potential demand of
over 50 kW.



ANNEX 6
Attachment 4
MONTHLY RETAIL TARIFFS OF CHILECTRA
EFFECTIVE OCTOBER 25, 1976
(in Ch $/kWh unless otherwise noted)
Residential
Demand charge: per kW for monthly demand in
excess of 5 kW (this is intended principally
as a preventive and is rarely applied)                     35.47
Energy charge:  first 90 kWh                                0.622
excess over 90 kWh                         1.464
Minimum bill: equal to 30 kWh
Commercial
Demand charge:  for first 5 kW                             17.52
for each kW in excess of 5 kW             27.70
Energy charge:  first 10 kWh                               free
next 490 kWh                               1.754
next 1,500 kWh                             0.997
over 2,000 kWh                             0.665
Industrial
Demand charge:  up to 100 kW, per kW                       25.54
over 100 kW, per kW                       16.35
Energy charge:  first 300 kWh/kW of maximum demand          0.633
excess over 300 kWh/kW                     0.346



ANNlEX 7
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT
CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (ENDESA)
Development of the Electric Power Sector
1.        With the assistance of Merz & McLellan of England, Endesa prepared
and submitted to the Bank in May 1970 its power development plan for Chile.
This plan determined the least-cost future development of generating and
transmission works to meet forecast electricity demands in Chile through
1982 using discount rates of 12 and 15%. While subsequent price increases,
particularly those related to petroleum products, have changed the cost
assumptions included in the plan, they have not changed the basic strategy
recommended by it, namely, continued development of hydro resources to
meet Chile's electricity requirements, supplemented by smaller thermal
generating plants.
CIS Generation
2.        For the CIS the least-cost order of new generating works was shown
to be the following:
Capacity     In-service
Name or location             Type                     in MW           date
Ventanas unit 2      Coal- or oil-fired steam          125            1976
Antuco                         Hydro                   300            1977
Bocamina unit 2         Coal-fired steam               125            1980
Colbun-Machicura               Hydro                   750            1981-82
Subsequent delays, however, have caused changes in the program.  Among the
most serious of those delays have been:
i.   an estimated five-year delay in completion of the Alto
Polcura diversion (Loan 479-CH) which was to have
supplied 400 GWSh/year through the El Toro hydro plant
beginning in 1973;
ii.   Chilectra's delays in obtaining financing for Ventanas
thermal unit no. 2;
iii.   Endesa's delays in obtaining financing for the Antuco
hydro development; and
iv.   delays in completing studies of the Colbun-Machicura hydro
development.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
3.        The failure of Endesa's actual load growth to meet expectations
(Annex 2) has prevented the above delays in project execution from causing
shortages of generating capacity or available energy.  In fact, the four-
year period (1971-75) of little or no growth in system demand has enabled
Endesa to drop the 125 MW thermal unit at Bocamina from its present CIS
investment plan, which follows:
Capacity           In-service
Name or Location              Type                 In MW                 date
Ventanas unit 2          Coal- or oil-
(Chilectra)              fired steam                 210              April 1977
Alto Polcura
Diversion                    Hydro                     -                Late 1977
Antuco                       Hydro                   300                  1981
Colbun - Machicura
first stage                 Hydro                    500                  1984
Neltume                      Hydro                   450                  1986
Annex 8 contains a brief description of the principal generating works
currently underway; Annex 9, of those under study. As explained in paragraph
2.13 of the text, Endesa is now considering switching the order of instal-
lation of the Colbun-Machicura first stage with the Neltume plant. To provide
base load energy beginning in the late 1980s or in the 1990s, Chile is consi-
dering the possibility of installing a nuclear generating station.
4.        It should be noted that Endesa contracted for 5 X 24 MW gas turbines
from Hitachi of Japan in 1974, when it expected a renewal of the 8% p.a.
load growth experienced before 1971. Because the expected load growth failed
to materialize, Endesa has not yet installed the units, which were delivered
in mid-1976. It. is now negotiating the sale of two of them to the national
petroleum company. Those it cannot sell it will retain to install in
Magallanes (see paragraph 8) or as stand-by for the CIS to be installed
in case of further delays in completion of major works or critically dry
years to provide baseload energy.
5.        In addition to the major works (paragraph 3), Endesa also intends
to install thermal generating units at the northern end of the CIS (sometimes
called the Huasco system) whose only link with the rest of the CIS is a low-
capacity 66kV line from Ovalle north to Huasco, and a 110 kV line from Ovalle
south to San Pedro (near Valparaiso). While the capacity of these lines will
be increased as part of Endesa's transmission program (see para 6), the
thermal units will still be necessary for local supply. The installation
schedule follows:
1976 - 1 x 24 MW gas turbine at Guayacan
1977 - 2 x 24 MW gas turbine at Huasco
1978 - 2 x 10 MW diesel units at Huasco.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
CIS transmission works
6.        The principal transmission works included in Endesa's program
through 1986 are:
a.   completion in 1977 of the 266 km Huasco-Ovalle 110 kV line
(paragraph 5) to strengthen Huasco's interconnection with
the rest of the CIS and conversion of 212 km of lines in
the Huasco system from 66 to 110 kV;
b.   completion in 1977 of a second single-circuit 220 kV line
between Charrua substation and Concepcion to satisfy that
industrial city's energy requirements;
C.   the gradual extension of a two-circuit 154 KV system from
Temuco to Puerto Montt, the first stage of which - a
single-circuit line between Valdivia and Puerto Montt -
would be *ncluded in the    ;ect;
d.   gradual extension of the 220 kV system north from San Pedro
to Vallenar (near Huasco), the first stage of which would
be financed with a South African credit now being negotiated
and completed by the end of 1980;
e.   to take advantage of different seasonal load patterns between
its system and that of Argentina's Mendoza region, Endesa
and the Argentine utility serving that region plan to build
a 220 kV line linking the two systems by 1981; and
f.   installation of transmission lines associated with major
generating works - Antuco, Colbun-Machicura and Neltume.
In the case of Colbun-Machicura, the probable transmission
voltage would be 500 kV.
Isolated system generation and transmission improvements
7.        Improvements in Endesa's four isolated systems are scheduled as
follows:
a.   Tarapaca system:
1976 - installation of one 24 MW gas turbine in Iquique
1980 - upgrading of transmission line between Arica and
Pozo Almonte (near Iquique) from 66 to 110 kV
b.   Antofagasta system:
1976 - installation of four high-speed diesel units of
2,100 kW each
1980 - completion of 110 kV interconnection with the
Chuquicamata system



ANNEX 7
Page 4
c.   Aysen system:
1976 - installation of one 1,280 kW high-speed unit in
Coyhaique3
1980 - two 2000 kW diesel units in Aysen
d.   Magallanes system:
1978 - installation of 2 X 24 MW gas turbines at Cabo Negro
1983 - one additional 24 MW gas turbine at Cabo Negro
Distribution Work
8.        Endesa's program for distribution improvements includes:  rural
electrification (Annex 3) and plant and equipment needed to overcome problems
now existing and expected to worsen in the near future (see Chapter 4 of the
text).



ANNEX 8
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT
CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S. A. (ENDESA)
Major Works Underway
1.        Endesa's principal works currently underway consist of:
a.   completion of the Alto Polcura diversion scheduled for late
1977; and
b.   the Antuco hydro development scheduled for 1981.
Alto Polcura diversion
2.        The Alto Polcura diversion is designed to provide average inflow
of 9.8 m3/s into Lake Laja. This flow would produce about 400 GWh/year
additional, at the El Toro hydro plant (Loan 479-CH).
3.        The diversion was described in detail in the appraisal report of
the fifth power project, No. TO-564a, December 5, 1966. Briefly, it con-
sists of three small dams on the upper Polcura river and two of its tribu-
taries and a series of three tunnels of 1.7 km, 2.4 km and 9 km to convey
the diverted water into the lake. The diversion was to have been finished
by year-end 1973, when the El Toro plant was placed in service.
4.        In July 1971, the original contractor was discharged and Endesa
took over the work. Of the total 13.1 km, the contractor had completed
3.5 km and Endesa, another 3.5 km through 1973, leaving about 6.1 km un-
completed. Endesa's progress in 1971-73 was hampered by a lack of spare
parts which put some of its equipment out of service. Transfer of equipment
from El Toro to Alto Polcura relieved that situation. In the longest of the
sections, Endesa encountered high-pressure water inflows and poor rock condi-
tions.
5.        Tunnel excavation has been completed, invert lining is being
carried out and dam construction is being finalized. The complete diversion
works are expected to be in operation by October 1977.
Antuco development: description
6.        The Antuco hydroelectric development, with capacity of 300 MW and
average annual energy production of 1,800 GWh, will be the final sSage of
development of the Laja basin. The plant will use a flow of 190 m Is with
a 190 m average net head.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
7.        The project will utilize water taken from the tailraces of the
existing El Toro and Abanico hydroelectric plants and transported via
canal/tunnels (the Polcura branch and Laja branch, respectively) to a common
tunnel which will feed the turbines.
8.        The Polcura branch will originate 4 km downstream from the El Toro
discharge into the Polcura river, where a small diversion dam will be built.
The reservoir created by this dam will hold 800,000 m3 to regulate the hourly
water flow. The water will move through a tunnel 6.45 m in diameter and
4.9 km long to the junction with the Laja branch.
9.        The Laja branch will originate with a non-regulating intake down-
stream from the Abanico plant discharge. Its total length will be 7.2 km,
including 3.1 km of tunnels, 4.1 km of canals and a crossing over the Polcura
river upstream from its junction with the Laja.
10.       The common branch will transport the water from the junction of the
Polcura and Laja branches via a concrete-lined pressure tunnel of 7.1 m
diameter and 8.1 km length to a surge tank and two 550 m underground steel
penstocks of 5 m diameter.
11.       The penstocks will lead to two vertical-shaft Francis turbines.
The generators will be rated 160,000 kVA and 0.95 power factor. The genera-
ting units will be located in an exterior powerhouse from which the dis-
charge water will be conducted back to the Laja river via a 700 m canal.
12.       The two generators will be connected to individual three-phase
step-up transformers, 13.8/220 kV, 175,000 kVA, located in a switchyard
outside the powerhouse. The two 220 kV circuits from El Toro as well as
those from Antuco will feed into this switchyard, from which a third 68 km
220 kV circuit to Charrua substation will be built.
Antuco development: estimated cost and financing
13.       The project's estimated cost, as estimated in IDB's appraisal re-
port, is as follows:



ANNEX 8
Page 3
-----in US$ millions-----
Local     Foreign   Total
Water conveyance systems and Antuco plant:
Civil works                                        121.8         -     121.8
Turbines and generators                                         9.1      9.1
Electrical and mechanical equipment                            14.4     14.4
Penstocks                                                       7.5      7.5
Construction machinery and imported materials                  24.4     24.4
Transmission and telecommunications equipment:
Civil works                                          6.1                 6.1
Substation equipment                                            3.4      3.4
Telecommunications equipment                                    2.4       2.4
Transmission line materials                                     1.5       1.5
Construction machinery                                          0.7      0.7
Sub-total                                        127.9       63.4    191.3
Engineering and administration                        23.5        1.4      24.9
Total base cost                                    151.4       64.8    216.2
Physical contingencies                                 6.8        2.8       9.6
Price contingencies                                   22.4        7.2      29.6
Financing charges                                       -        25.6      25.6
Total                                              180.6      100.4    281.0
14.       A loan from the IDB, signed in August 1974, will finance about 75%
of the foreign costs, 5% is being financed by equipment suppliers, and finan-
cing of the remainder is being arranged by Endesa.
15.       The IDB loan also includes US$1.2 million for studies, mostly for
drill soundings, exploration wells, reconnaissance galleries, test trenches,
geoseismic profiles and hydrologic, geologic and topographic studies of the
Colbun-Machicura hydro development (see annex 9).



ANNEX 9
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT
CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S. A. (ENDESA)
Studies for Proposed Hydroelectric Projects
1.        Colbun-Machicura
1.1       Endesa has in operation two hydro plants - Cipreses and Isla -
on the upper Maule river, which has a total drainage area of 19,000 km2 and
is located about halfway between Santiago and the Laja development (3rd Region -
see map). Just before it enters the central valley, the Maule passes through
a narrow gap at Colbun. This is the proposed site for the principal work
of the project, an earth dam of 110 m height, 540 m crest length and 13.4
million m3 volume. The dam and two dikes would form a reservoir with total
volume of 1,490 million m3, for power generation (3,360 GWh) and irrigation
(improved service for 330,000 ha presently being irrigated, and 125,000
ha that do not have irrigation).
1.2       Water would be conveyed from the reservoir to the Colbun powerhouse
via two parallel free-flow tunnels about 2.7 km long leading to pressure
tunnels and penstocks. The powerhouse would contain 4 x 200 MW units (160 m
net head).
1.3       A 1.7 km long discharge canal would then convey the water to the
Machicura reservoir, a regulating reservoir with a volume of 7 million m3 of
useful storage to be formed by the Machicura earth dam of 31 m height and two
smaller dikes. Three short penstocks would convey the water to the powerhouse
where 3 x 190 MW generating units (38 m net head) would be installed.
2.        Maule-Melado
The headworks of this project would be located in the high reaches
of the Maule river basin (3rd Region). The Maule would be diverted through a
tunnel 8.5 km long to a reservoir to be formed by a dam on the Melado river,
tributary of the Maule. The water from this reservoir would be conveyed through
a tunnel 7 km long to the powerhouse. The installed capacity would be 450 MW
and annual generation 2,300 GMh. Discharges from this plant would return to
the Maule river at the upstream end of the proposed Colbun reservoir.
3.        Ralco
This project would be located on the higher reaches of the Bio Bio
river (4th Region) and would comprise a high arch dam and an underground power



ANNEX 9
Page 2
station, near the dam.  T e reservoir to be formed by the dam would have a
volume of 2,000 million m f6r seasonal regulation. The installed capacity
would be about 1,000 MW and average annual generation 4,000 GWh.
4.        Neltume
The proposed project would be located about 130 km east of Valdivia
(5th Region). It would develop a head of 44 m between the Pirehueico (intake)
and Neltume (powerhouse) lakes, through a tunnel 15 km in length. The
installed capacity would be 450 MW and average annual generation 3,100 GWh.
5.        Choshuenco
This project would utilize the discharges of the Neltume powerhouse
(para 4 above) and the waters of the Neltume lake by means of a diversion
dam to be located at the confluence of the Fui and Neltume rivers. There,
the waters would be conveyed through a canal (5 km) and tunnel (3 km) to the
powerhouse. The installed capacity would be 150 MW and average annual gene-
ration 950 GWh.
6.        Petrohue
The project would be located 170 km southeast of Valdivia (5th
Region) tS utilize the Todos los Santos lake as a seasonal reservoir (1,000
million m ). These waters would be conveyed through a 13 km tunnel to the
powerhouse which would be located about 15 km from the mouth of the Petrohue
river. The installed capacity would be 450 MW and average annual generation
2,900 GWh.
7.        Canutillar
The project would utilize the Chapo lake waters diverted through a
7.4 km tunnel to a powerhouse to be located on the western shore of the
Reloncavi estuary (Gulf of Ancud - 5th Region). The installed capacity would
be about 125 MW and annual generation 820 GWh.
8.        Rio Ibanez
This project would utilize the waters of the Ibanez river with a
powerhouse to be located near the northern shore of the General Carrera lake
(6th Region). This plant would serve the Balmaceda-Coihaique-Aisen-Puerto
Chacabuco system. The installed capacity would be about 50 MW and the average
annual generation 440 GWh.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT - CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S. A. (ENDESA)
Description of the Project
1.        The project is Endesa's 1977-80 system rehabilitation program.  It
consists primarily of transmission and distribution improvements (generally
in the CIS) and communication, transportation, and other equipment needed to
overcome serious operating problems and to prepare studies of future gener-
ation facilities (Annex 9). Specialized consulting services for future works
are also included. The equipment, materials, and services which Endesa
intends to contract for are described herein.
2.        Cost estimates for each project component are shown with its des-
cription and the summary of estimated project costs is shown on page 13 of
this annex. In making the foreign-cost estimates, Endesa used actual quota-
tions updated in 1976 for similar goods and added allowance for price
increases to year-end 1980. The base-cost estimate for the local cost com-
ponent has for its basis local price conditions in Chile in June 1976. To
the base-cost estimate, Endesa has added: local customs duties and taxes
(at present rates, which are in the range of 50-60% of cif value for capital
goods); local general and administrative costs in accordance with Endesa's
accounting practice; and physical contingencies, varying from 5 to 15%,
depending on the nature of the improvements to be made. The allowance for
price increases (foreign and local) added to the base cost estimate was
calculated using the following annual percentages: 9% in 1976 (second half),
8% in 1977 to 1979, and 7% in 1980. No estimate of local inflation trends
over and above world wide rates has been made, as it is assumed that movements
in the exchange rate will reflect such differences.
3.        In the project description, generating, transmission and distri-
bution improvements are summarized in north-to-south geographical order,
followed by other equipment and studies identified by intended purpose, as
below:
I.   Tarapaca system
II.   Antofagasta system
III.   Huasco system
IV.   Central interconnected system
V.   Sixth and seventh regions
VI.   Isolated rural locations
VII.   Load dispatching system
VIII.   Transportation, construction, testing, measuring,
laboratory, shop and office equipment, spare parts,
and consulting services



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Project Description
I. TARAPACA SYSTEM
A.   Transmission works
1. To operate the 215 km 66 kV Arica - Pozo Almonte line at 110 kV,
15 km near the coast will be reinsulated for 110 kV (insulation
of the remaining 200 km is adequate), 39 MVA autotransformers,
switchgear and accessory equipment will be installed at Arica
and Pozo Almonte substations. These works are needed to overcome
a 25% power restriction which would otherwise have to be imposed.
2. Addition of 1-66 kV switch bay at Iquique substation and carrier
telephone unit to connect Iquique to Arica to meet increased demand.
3. Addition of 2-10 MVA transformers and switch panels at Arica sub-
station to meet increased demand.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):        Local        Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                        3,441          553          3,994
Customs duties                              361           -             361
Administrative and general                  467           -             467
Physical contingencies                      299           44            343
Price contingencies                       1,010          132          1,142
Total                                5,578           729          6,307
B.   Distribution works
To reduce distribution system losses and improve voltage regulation, Endesa
will install 1-2 M'VA 23 kV voltage regulator, 1-2 MVA 13.2 kV voltage regulator
for rural feeders, 17 sectionalizers, capacitor switching control, and protec-
tion equipment.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local         Foreign       Total
Base cost estimate                         78            82            160
Customs duties                             49             -             49
Administrative and general                 13             -             13
Physical contingencies                      4             6             10
Price contingencies                        20            12             32
Total                                164           100            264



ANNEX 10
Page 3
II. ANTOFAGASTA SYSTEM
A.   Distribution works
To reduce excessive system losses and improve voltage regulation (which
is as low as 18.5% below normal during the peak), Endesa will install 1-2
MVA 23 kV voltage regulator, 1-2 MVA 13.2 kV voltage regulator for rural
feeders, 19 sectionalizers, and capacitor switching control and protection
equipment.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                        70           104            174
Customs duties                            65             -             65
Administrative and general                15             -             15
Physical contingencies                     3             8             11
Price contingencies                       21            15             36
Total                                174           127            301
III. HUASCO SYSTEM
A.   Generation works
To achieve savings in fuel costs, Endesa plans to convert its 2 x 24 MW gas
turbines to burn No. 5 fuel oil, which would be cheaper than the diesel fuel
now used.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                       155           467            622
Customs duties                           294             -            294
Administrative and general                47             -             47
Physical contingencies                    17            28             45
Price contingencies                       22            21             43
Total                                535           516          1,051
B.   Transmission works
Miscellaneous switchgear, control equipment and transformers for the following
substations now under construction: Maitencillo, Copiapo, Chuschampis and
Corona.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                       1,946         345           2,291
Customs duties                              208          -             208
Administrative and general                  248          -             248
Physical contingencies                      216         34             250
Price contingencies                         339         49             388
Total                               2,957         428           3,385



ANNEX 10
Page 4
C.   Distribution works
To improve voltage conditions and reduce distribution system losses the fol-
lowing equipment will be installed: 1-2 MVA 23 kV voltage regulator, 1-2 MVA
13.2 kV voltage regulator for rural feeders, 8 sectionalizers, and capacitor
switching control and protection equipment.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local       Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                        47            67           114
Customs duties                            42             -            42
Administrative and general                10             -             10
Physical contingencies                     2             6              8
Price contingencies                       12             9            21
Total                                113           82            195
IV. CENTRAL INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM (CIS)
A.   Transmission and subtransmission works
The following equipment represents the most critically needed portion of
improvements in the CIS transmission system. Originally intended for in-
stallation in the early 1970s as part of Endesa's long-range transmission
program, this equipment is now required not only to meet load growth but
also, in most cases, to reduce system losses.
1. CIS north of Santiago
Rio Elqui Valley:  50 km 66 kV line between Elqui and La Serena,
1-66 kV switch bay at La Serena substation and 1 new 65/13.8 kV
4 MVA substation with 3-25 kV feeder bays at Elqui.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local       Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                        252           38           290
Customs duties                             29            -            29
Administrative and general                 34            -            34
Physical contingencies                     28            3            31
Price contingencies                        59            7            66
Total                                 402           48           450
2. A 30 km 66 kV line extension and the following substation
equipment to serve the Colbun-Machicura construction site:
Linares substation - 1-66 kV switch bay; Machicura - 1 new
66/13.8 kV, 2 MVA substation with 1-66 kV bay and 2 - 13.8
kV feeder bays; Colbun - 1 new 66/13.8 kV 4 MVA substation



ANNEX 10
Page 5
with 2-13.8 kV bays and 4 - 13.8 kV feeders; Maule - 1 new
66/13.8 kV 4 MVA substation with 2-13.8 kV feeder bays and
4-13.8 kV feeders; and Colorado - 1 new 66/13.8 kV 2 MVA
substation with 1-13.8 kV bay and 2 feeders.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                        482          106            588
Customs duties                              65            -             65
Administrative and general                  68            -            68
Physical contingencies                      53            8             61
Price contingencies                        146          25             171
Total                                 814          139            953
3. 66 and 13.8 kV switchgear at Melipilla substation.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                        541           35            576
Customs duties                              23           -              23
Administrative and general                  69            -             69
Physical contingencies                      60            3             63
Price contingencies                        127            7            134
Total                                 820           45            865
4. San Javier zone improvement, including a 13 km 154 kV extension
from existing Itahue-Charrua line to San Javier and 1-45 MVA
154/66 kV transformer and 4-66 kV bays at San Javier substation.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                       1,779          793          2,572
Customs duties                              546          -             546
Administrative and general                  283          -             283
Physical contingencies                      197           63           260
Price contingencies                         527         161            688
Total                                3,332        1,017          4,349
5.  Southern zone improvement, including the following transmission
line extensions between Charrua substation and Chiloe island:
Los Lagos - Valdivia: 40 km - 66 kV;
Valdivia - Osorno: 107 km - 154 kV;
Osorno-Angelmo (Puerto Montt): 104 km - 154 kV; and
Puerto Elvira-Castro: 90km - 66 kV.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
Related substation improvement consists of:
Valdivia substation: 1 - 154 kV bay, 8 - 66 kV bays, 1 - 45 MVA
154/66 kV transformer, and 1-30 MVA
voltage regulator;
Los Lagos substation: 1 - 66 kV bay;
Osorno substation: 1 - 154 kV 45 MVA transformer: 6 -154 kV bays
9 - 66 kV bays and 2500 kVAR statics capacitors;
Angelmo substation: 1 - 154 kV 45 MVA transformer, 3 -154 kV bays,
2 - 66 kV bays and 1-30 MVA voltage regulator;
Teresita substation:  1 - 8 MVA 66/23 kV transformer;
Puerto Elvira substation:  1 - 4 MVA, 66/23 kV transformer,
1 - 66 kV bay and 3 - 23 kV bays; and
Castro substation:  1 - 4 MVA 66/23 kV transformer and 3 -23 kV bays.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                      14,840         6,034        20,874
Customs duties                           3,830           -           3,830
Administrative and general               2,444           -           2,444
Physical contingencies                    1,648           483        2,131
Price contingencies                      6,171          1,767        7,938
Total                               28,933         8,284        37,217
6.  To correct overloads, Endesa will install the following subtransmission
equipment:
El Paico:  New 4 MVA substation with 66/13.8 kV transformer and
2 - 13.8 kV feeder bays.
San Vicente -- 1 - 60 MVA, 154/66 kV transformer installation,
1 - 154 kV bay, 66 kV bus bar extension and 66 kV
switchgear.
Laja        -- 2 MVA, 66/13.8 kV transformer and 3 feeder bays
Coronel     -- 1 - 30 MVA 66 kV voltage regulator, relocation of
protection equipment in new control center.
Ovejeria    -- New 4 MVA substation with 66/13.8 kV transformer and
1 - 66 kV and 2 - 13.8 kV bays.
Reroute     -- 14 km of 154 kV line and 14 km of 66 kV line near
Convento Viejo.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
Los Angeles:  2 - 8 MVA, 66/13.8 kV transformers
Pto. Varas    1 - 8 MVA, 66/13.8 kV transformer
Cholguan       1 - 8 MVA, 66/13.8 kV transformer
Lautaro        1 - 4 MVA, 66/13.8 kV transformer
Loncoche   :  1 - 4 MVA, 66/23 kV transformer
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                       2,571          772          3,343
Customs duties                             244           -             244
Administrative and general                 333           -             333
Physical contingencies                     285           62            347
Price contingencies                        543          132            675
Total                                3,976          966          4,942
7.   Miscellaneous transmission/subtransmission equipment:
Miscellaneous control equipment for the following substations:
Convento Viejo, San Fernando, Charrua (Concepcion bay) and Concep-
cion (220 kV).
Miscellaneous switchgear and protection equipment for the connection
of static condensors at the following substations: Curico, Talca,
Chillan, Huequen, Linares, Concepcion.
Los Quilos substation: 1 - 30 MVA, 66 kV voltage regulator.
Spare parts for reconditioning of existing electrical equipment.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                       1,440           729         2,169
Customs duties                             486             -           486
Administrative and general                 213             -           213
Physical contingencies                       76           59           135
Price contingencies                        291           104           395
Total                                2,506           892         3,398
B.   Distribution works
The distribution networks of the Interconnected System outside the large
urban centers are severely overloaded and losses exceed 10%; voltage
regulation is bad (higher than +9%), with local sections far in excess
of this. Switchgear has exceed its rupturing capacity. The following
works are necessary to overcome these problems.



ANNEX 10
Page 8
Valle de La Ligua:  1 - 2 MVA 23 kV voltage regulator, 7 section-
alizers and capacitor switching control and
protection equipment.
Melipilla            2 - 2 MVA 13.2 kV voltage regulators, 9 section-
alizers and capacitor switching control and pro-
tection equipment.
Colchagua            1 - 2 MVA 13.2 kV voltage regulator, 7 section-
alizers and capacitor switching control and pro-
tection equipment.
Maule             : 6 sectionalizers and capacitor switching control
and protection equipment.
La Frontera       :  1 - 2 MVA 13.2 kV voltage regulator, 11 section-
alizers and capacitor switching control and pro-
tection equipment.
Saesa             :  1 - 2 MVA 23 kV voltage regulator, 14 section-
alizers and capacitor switching control and pro-
tection equipment.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):      Local        Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                        172         281           453
Customs duties                            136            -          136
Administrative and general                 35            -           35
Physical contingencies                      9           22           31
Price contingencies                        47           40           87
Total                                 399         343           742
V.   SIXTH AND SEVENTH REGIONS
A.   Distribution works
Aisen network    :  1 - 2 MVA 23 kV voltage regulator, 6 sectionalizers
and capacitor switching control and protection
equipment.
Punta Arenas network:  1 - 2 MVA 23 kV voltage regulator, 1 - 2 MVA
13.2 kV voltage regulator, 5 sectionalizers and
capacitor switching control and protection equip-
ment.
This work is needed to overcome high system losses and poor voltage
regulation.



ANNEX 10
Page 9
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                         139         100            239
Customs duties                              63           -             63
Administrative and general                  22            -             22
Physical contingencies                       7            8            15
Price contingencies                         34           16            50
Total                                 265          124            389
VI. ISOLATED RURAL LOCATIONS: GENERATING PLANTS
Endesa has 22 small diesel units ranging from 75 to 3,000 kW which are from 15
to 25 years old. Many are so old that spare parts are no longer obtainable.
Endesa proposes to obtain 7,000 kW in 6 units of 750 kW and 2,000 kW size to
replace the more inefficient existing units, to increased capacity where over-
loads exist and to standardize the type of units in the system to reduce
operating problems and costs. The units will be installed as follows:
Number of        Size of         Total Capacity to
Location               units         unit in kW       be installed in kW
Taltal                   2               750                 1,500
Porvenir                 2                750                1,500
Coihaique                2             2,000                 4,000
Total                                                 7,000
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                        482         1,570          2,052
Customs duties                            981             -            981
Administrative and general                 170             -           170
Physical contingencies                      54          126            180
Price contingencies                       252           255            507
Total                               1,939         1,951          3,890
VII. LOAD DISPATCHING SYSTEM
Endesa's CIS includes 14 generating plants with a total installed capacity of
1,400 MW, 123 substations (64 of which are major) and about 5,000 km of
transmission lines covering a service territory 2,000 km long. The
telecommunication/load dispatching center presently in operation consists only
of six telephone and one telex circuits; these only enable Endesa to prepare
operating plans on a daily basis and prevent a rapid response to problems in
the system. To achieve a more efficient operation of the system, Endesa plans
to install a modern load dispatching center which would enable it to control



ANNEX 10
Page 10
the entire CIS including Chilectra. The center will include telemetering,
display and data processing equipment to enable the system operator in
Santiago to oversee the entire system and respond quickly to whatever problem
situations occur.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign       Total
Base cost estimate                       1,326         3,719         5,045
Customs duties                           1,896             -         1,896
Administrative and general                 436             -           436
Physical contingencies                     234           297           531
Price contingencies                      1,151         1,187         2,338
Total                                5,043         5,203        10,246
VIII.  TRANSPORTATION, CONSTRUCTION, TESTING, MEASURING, LABORATORY,
SHOP AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT, SPARE PARTS AND CONSULTING SERVICE
The age of Endesa's transportation, maintenance and construction equipment
ranges from 3 to 24 years with an average age of 10.5 years. Because of a
shortage of spare parts and the poor condition of some units, repairs to keep
the equipment in service are costly, and the older units are out of service
for up to two months a year. Endesa proposes to purchase new equipment to
replace worn-out units and meet the needs of system expansion. It also pro-
poses to order spares and replacement parts to keep existing units in oper-
ating condition. To meet its increasing needs for system maintenance and
for studies of new projects, much of which work was deferred during the early
1970s, Endesa also requires testing, measuring, laboratory, shop and office
equipment and consulting services. The required equipment and services are
summarized below according to their intended initial use; when no longer
needed for the function for which it is originally intended (e.g., the Lake
Invernada dam improvements, which are to be completed within two years), the
equipment will be used elsewhere on the system.
A. Substation, transmission and subtransmission system construction
In the past Endesa has constructed its substations, transmission and sub-
transmission systems with its own equipment and manpower. While some con-
struction work is still ongoing, Endesa's new policy is to contract out
this work in future to privately owned construction firms. Nevertheless,
Endesa intends to maintain a limited construction capability to handle spe-
cialized work--which private construction firms are not equipped to perform--
on its substations, transmission and subtransmission lines. The specialized
equipment which Endesa will need to execute this limited construction work, as
well as trucks and vehicles of various types and sizes to inspect construction
work being carried out by others, are included under this item.



ANNEX 10
Page 11
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                          17         500            517
Customs duties                            310            -            310
Administrative and general                  33           -             33
Physical contingencies                       1           40            41
Price contingencies                          2          72             74
Total                                 363          612            975
B. Primary transmission and generating plant maintenance and construction
Endesa has over 5,000 km of transmission lines to maintain, of which 900 km
are in areas of high contamination along the coast; these require special
maintenance equipment for hot line work. The required maintenance equipment
is:
Transmission line maintenance equipment
Instruments, oil treatment plant and associated materials
Laboratory equipment
Workshop equipment such as welding equipment, fans, lathes, pumps
Telecommunications equipment for maintenance and extension of
existing installations and for communications with field crews.
In addition to the above, this item includes a bulldozer and a front end loader
for construction of the Lake Invernada dam improvements.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                         429         4,000         4,429
Customs duties                           2,480              -        2,480
Administrative and general                  220             -          220
Physical contingencies                       23          320           343
Price contingencies                        383           525           908
Total                                3,535         4,845         8,380
C. Distribution system construction and maintenance
30 vehicles with platforms for hot line work
13 medium trucks
15 pickup trucks
12 sets of hot line tools
Measuring instruments



ANNEX 10
Page 12
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign         Total
Base cost estimate                            -         1,578         1,578
Customs duties                            1,013             -         1,013
Administrative and general                  104             -           104
Physical contingencies                        -           126           126
Price contingencies                           -           228           228
Total                                  1,117       1,932         3,049
D. Studies of future plants
The need for this work is given in Annex 9. The principal requirements are
equipment for site investigation. Measuring, laboratory and other equipment
as well as consulting services required to study Endesa's future hydro-
electric projects are also included under this item.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):       Local        Foreign         Total
Base cost estimate                       13,907         2,017        15,924
Consultants' Services /1                      -           450           450
Customs duties                              939             -           939
Administrative and general                2,015             -         2,015
Physical contingencies                    1,721           398         2,119
Price contingencies                       5,297           709         6,006
Total                               23,879         3,574        27,453
/1   Consultants Services
Base Costs
-    Salary and overhead                   US$4,700
-    Living allowance at US$ 50/day           1,500
US$6,200/man-month
Services
-    65 man-months                         US$403,000
-    15 round trips at US$1,300                19,500
-    Contingencies                             27,500
US$450,000



ANNEX 10
Page 13
F. Spare parts
Financing would be provided under this item for spare parts urgently needed
(i) at Endesa's Cipreses hydroelectric plant; (ii) at its diesel plant at
Punta Arenas; and (iii) for other various generating plant and substation
equipment.
Estimated Cost (in US$ thousands):        Local         Foreign        Total
Base cost estimate                             -         2,546          2,546
Customs duties                             1,378             -          1,378
Administrative and general                   158             -             158
Physical contingencies                         -
Price contingencies                          200           357            557
Total                                 1,736          2,903          4,639
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
---millions of Pesos---    ---millions of US$----
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Transmission and Distribution:
Tarapaca system                  56.32    10.24    66.56       3.52      0.64      4.16
Antofagasta system                1.12      1.60      2.72     0.07      0.10      0.17
Huasco system                    34.40    14.08    48.48       2.15      0.88      3.03
cis                            353.28   140.64   493.92    22.08         8.79    30.87
Distribution-Sixth and
Seventh Regions                   2.24      1.60      3.84     0.14      0.10      0.24
Isolated Rural Systems              7.68    25.12    32.80       0.48      1.57      2.05
Load Dispatching Center            21.28    59.52    80.80        1.33      3.72     5.05
Various Equipment:
Transmission and
subtransmission                0.32      8.00      8.32      0.02      0.50      0.52
Transmission maintenance          6.88    64.00    70.88       0.43      4.00      4.43
Vehicles                             -    25.28    25.28           -     1.58      1.58
Studies:
Equipment, Materials
and Services                 222.56    32.32   254.88    13.91         2.02    15.93
Consulting Services                  -      7.20     .7.20        -      0.45      0.45
Office and Laboratory
Equipment                              -      1.92      1.92         -     0.12      0.12
Spare Parts                            -    40.80    40.80          -      2.55      2.55
Total Base Cost              706.08   432.32  1138.40    44.13    27.02    71.15
Customs Duties and Taxes          247.52         -   247.52    15.47          -    15.47
Administrative and General        119.04         -   119.04      7.44         -      7.44
Physical Contingencies             78.88    34.56   113.44       4.93      2.16      7.09
Price Contingencies               262.88    93.12   356.00    16.43        5.82    22.25
1414.40   560.00  1974.40    88.40    35.00   123.40



ANNEX 11
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT - CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (ENDESA)
Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
Assumptions:
Loan approval:                          December 1976
Effective date:                         April 1977
Closing date:                           June 30, 1981
IBRD Fiscal Year                 Disbursements            Cumulative Disbursements
and Semester                     During Semester          at End of Semester
1977
(Ending June 30, 1977)
June 30, 1977                5.0                          5.0
1978
December 31, 1977            6.5                         11.5
June 30, 1978                6.0                         17.5
1979
December 31, 1978            6.7                         24.2
June 30, 1979                 3.0                        27.2
1980
December 31, 1979             3.5                        30.7
June 30, 1980                2.0                         32.7
1981
December 31, 1980            2.3                         35.0
November 1976



ANNEX 12
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT - CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S. A. (ENDESA)
Return on Investment
1.        The project is a comparatively small part of Endesa's total invest-
ment program through 1981, the largest component of which is completion of the
300 MW Antuco hydro development. The project's rate of return can therefore
best be measured by comparing the costs of the total investment program with
the revenues to be derived therefrom.
2.        The related costs and revenues are detailed in the table below,
along with principal assumptions concerning their derivation. It should be
noted that the revenues do not reflect present tariffs, which are too low (see
para 6.07 of the text). Instead, the estimated revenues reflect further ad-
justments which are expected to be made in 1977-79 to enable the utilities to
earn the agreed financial rates of return on investment. Based on current es-
timates, these further adjustments would bring average retail tariffs up to
the equivalent to USi8.5/kWh. The resultant rate of return on investment in
the total program would be 26%. If investment and operating costs increased
by 20%, the rate of return would decrease to 22.6%. If tariffs remained at
their present levels (average retail tariffs of about US44/kWh in the Santiago
area), the rate of return would be 12.7%.
3.        It should be noted that the investment program includes only the
incremental costs and excludes about US$80 million already spent on the Antuco
development. If such costs were included in the calculations, the rates of
return would be 10.1% at existing tariff levels and 20.9% at tariff levels
necessary for utilities to earn the agreed financial rate of return.
Benefits and Costs of Endesa Expansion Program
(in millions of US$)
Capital     Operating       Total    Benefits
Year            costs         costs         costs     Revenues
1977            63.8           -            63.8        -
1978            78.1           -            78.1        -
1979            69.4           -            69.4        -
1930            72.8           -            72.8        -
1981            45.3          2.5           50.2      67.3
1982-2006         -           4.9            4.9     134.6
2007            28.2          4.9           33.1      134.6
2008            35.4          4.9           40.3      134.6
2009            39.0          4.9           43.9      134.6
2010            53.7          4.9           58.6      134.6
2011            43.2          4.9           48.1      134.6
2012-2026         -           4.9            4.9      134.6



ANNEX 12
Page 2
Assumptions:
A.   Capital costs
1.   Endesa's November 1976 estimates for project costs, including
physical contingencies are:
System rehabilitation program (excl. studies
and isolated systems)                               US$ 67.7 million
Antuco hydro development and related transmission   US$173.2 million
Remainder of the program                              US$100.5 million
Total                                            US$341.4 million
2.   IBRD adjustments:
wa. Exclusion of import duties and sales taxes at 60% of
foreign equipment cost.
b.   Addition of related distribution investment estimated
at US$200/kW.
c.   Renewal of all investments except Antuco hydro programmed
after 30 years.
B.   Operation costs
Fixed costs: 1.5% of investment
C.   Revenues
1.  Energy sales = average hydro year output of Antuco
less losses at 15% of generation.
2.   Revenue per kWh based on Endesa/Chilectra's revenue requirements
to meet the agreed rate of return.



APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT - CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (ENDESA)
ACTUAL AND FORECAST KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS 1970-81
(Amounts expressed in billions of escudos through 1974, millions of current pesos in 1975-76 and
millions of November 1976 pesos beginning in 1977)
1970      1971      1972      1973      1974       1975      1976    1977    1978      1979      1980        1981
Return on net plant
Beginning-of_year basis (Note A):
Net operating income                                       0.299     0.271     0.357   - 1.013
Statutory rate base (beginning of year)                    3.665     5.085     6.012    20.233
Percentage return                                          8.2       5.3       5.9     - 5.0
Average basis (Note B):
Net operating income                                       0.277     0.252     0.131   - 3.219   - 4.o       4i.8    271        612      1244      1922      2060       2375
Average rate base                                          4.375     5.548    13.123    85.641   470.0   2131.6  10851        19472    20632      21030     20974      24302
Percentage return                                          6.3       4.5       1.0     - 3.7      - 0.1       1.9       2.5       3.1       6.o       9.1       9.8        9.8
Debt
Times debt service covered by internal cash generation    2.1        2.1       1.2   Negative       0.3       0.8       0.8       1.9       3.0       4.1       4.1        3.9
Debt/equity ratio                                          18/82     19/81     15/85     24/76      24/76     32/68     22/78     23/77    24/76      23/77     25/75       26/74
Working capital
Working capital at year-end                                O.109   - 0.016   - 0.210   - 7.6    - 10.6    - 41.5      170       142       219       327        329       400
Current ratio (to 1.0)                                     1.3       0.9       0.8       o.4       0.8        0.9       1.3       1.2       1.3       1.4       1.4        1.5
Depreciation
As a percentage of gross utility plant in service Note C) 2.4        2.4       2.5        3.2       2.8       2.9       2.5        2.4      2.5       2.5        2.5       2.5
Note A: Beginning-of-,e ar rate base discontinued after 1973 because of proposed changes in law.
Note B: To compute average-basis rate of return through 1973, reported depreciation provisions (which had been calculated on beginning-of-year asset balances)
were adjusted to reflect same percentage provision on average asset balances, and net operating income amounts were decreased accordirgly. Beginning
in 1977, projected rate bases include provisions for intangibles and working capital in accordance with proposed legal changes (see Annex 5).
Note C: Percentage shown is depreciation provision related to beginning-of-year plant balance through 1974 and to average plant balance beginning 1975.
Revised November 1976



ANNEX 14
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT - CHILE
INCOME STATEMENTS 1974-76
(in billions of escudos in 1974 and millions of pesos 1975-76)
Actual                  Estimated
1974          1975                1976
Energy
Revenues from sales at energy
and related services                45.9         303.8               1330
Operating Expenses:
Depreciation                        17.0          78.8                353
Other direct expenses               28.5         154.7                600
Administrative and general           4.4          28.5                 106
Total operating expenses            49.9         262.0               1059
Operating income                    -  4.0          41.8                 271
Non-operating expenses:
Interest and related expenses       18.2          74.3                475
Exchange losses (see note)          13.3            -                  _
Other non-operating               -  3.8         - 4.0                 -
Total non-operating expenses        27.7          70.3                475
Net income before monetary
correction                        - 31.7        - 28.5              - 204
Monetary correction (see note)          -         -180.1                n.a.
Net income or (loss)                - 31.7        -208.6                n.a.
Note: Through 1974, Endesa recorded exchange losses on foreign-exchange transactions
(principally debt amortization) as incurred. Begining in 1975, in accordance
with Chilean law, the net effect of all balance-sheet revaluations is
reflected as a monetary correction factor in the income statement. In Endesa's
case, external debt at year-end 1975 was valued on the basis of the exchange
rates then prevailing; all other assets, liabilities and capital, on the
basis of the Chilean CPI. The negative monetary correction in 1975 is
expected to be reversed in 1976 as increases in the CPI exceed those in
exchange rates. The extent at the 1976 monetary correction will not be
known until year-end.
November 1976



APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT - CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (ENDESA)
ACTUAL AND F'ORECAST BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31, 1970-81
(in billions of escudos through 1974, millions of current pesos in 1975-76 and millions of November
1976 pesos beginning in 1977)
1970      1971       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       198
Utility plant in service                            6.497      8.076    20.074       195.4     988.1      4447.3   23760       25920       27280      27760      28960      35200
Accumulated depreciation                            1.763      2.466     6.328       4o.o      203.5       968.7    5536        6138        68oo       7488       8190       8995
Net plant in service               4       .        734- 5.610    13.746          155IT      777        341816   15224       19782       20480      20272      20770      26205
Construction work in progress                       2.336      3.942    11.374       25.7      206.4      1343.8    3072        3413        5277       8801      12923      14733
Net utility plant                                 7.070      9.552    25.120      181.1      991.0      4822.4   21296       23195       25757      29073      33693      40938
Current assets:
Cash and equivalent                              0.009      0.036      o.o46        0.3        6.7        25.9       50         50          50         50         50         50
Receivables from customers                        0.105     0.125      0.250        1.2       12.4        67.6      200        250         300        350        400        450
Other receivables                                 0.112     o.o85      0.206        o.6        7.6        48.5       50         50          50         50         50         50
Materials and supplies                            0.126     0.148      0.275        2.1       13.5       144.8      420        450         480        510        540        570
Other                                             0.028     0.029      0.020        0.1        -           1.7      100        100         100        100        100        100
Total current assets                           0.380      0.423      0.797                4. 4        0.2 820                900                                    0 1140    122
Other assets                                        o.o69     0.138      0.238        0.8         5.0       55.5      160        160         160        160        160        160
Total assets                                    7.519    10.113    26.155       186.2    1036.2       5166.4   22276       24255       26897      30293      34993      42318
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Capital and reserves                                5.894      7.681    19.922      123.6      743.7      3300.2   16903       18061       19984      22630      25806      30563
Long-term debt                                      1.331      1.941     3.510       44.7      261.3      1738.8    4903        5724        6443       7193       8717      11285
Less current portion                                o.o46     (.o86      0.111        5.3       25.3       202.6      180        288         291        263        341        350
Net long-term debt                                1     .28 5   ] 8  3.399        239         36.0      1536.2    4723        5           6152 8930             83765
Central Bank line of credit                           -          -       1.589       10.5        5.7        -
Current liabilities:
Current portion of long-term debt                 o.o46     o.o86      0.111        5.3       25.3       202.6      180        288         291        263        341        350
Notes and accounts payable                        0.254      0.423     0.771        5.7       13.3        85.1      270        270         270        270        270        270
Other liabilities                                 o.o40     o.o68      0.363        1.7       12.2        42.3      200        200         200        200        200        200
Total current and other liabilities             0         0.577        25        12.7       50.8       330.     0   650 751 76                      1 *7 33 -   - T2_0
Total liabilities and capital                   7.519    10.113    26.155       186.2    1036.2       5166.4   22276       24255       26897      302         4993      42318
November 30, 1976



ANNEX 16
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT - CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S. A. (ENDESA)
EXISTING LONG-TERM DEBT AND ESTIMATED FUTURE DEBT SERVICE
Amount Outstanding
Outstanding debt at Dec. 31, 1975                 Current    Non-current
in US$ thousands                  Currency      portion       portion       Total
IBRD:
153-CH                              Various        1,312          -          1,312
244-CH                              Various        1,983        19,370      21,353
402-CH                              Various           275        2,655       2,930
479-CH                              Various        4,332        62,296      66,628
Total IBRD                                        7,902        84,321      92,223
IDB  (Antuco)                        Various          -          10,902      10,902
Total international agencies                      7,902        95,223    103,125
Suppliers' credits and bilateral
loans:
GIE (Bocamina)                      Lit             3,871        7,469      11,340
Marubeni (gas turbines)              Yen            2,050       30,629      32,679
MAN (isolated diesel units)          DM             1,193           414      1,607
Mexican gov't (substation equip.)  US$                322        1,572       1,894
Others of less than US$ 1 mil. each                 2,633        3,521       6,154
Total suppliers/bilateral                        10,069        43,605      53,674
Local loans (see note):
Soc. Minera El Teniente S.A.        US$               292       11,144      11,436
Corfo                               US$               982        5,570       6,552
Corfo (converted at Ch$8.5=US$l)   Ch$             4,589        24,123      28,712
Total local loans                                 5,863        40,837      46,700
Total debt                                       23,834       179,665    203,499
NOTE: The major El Teniente loan matures in 1996. Corfo's policy is to contribute
amortization payments on its loans to Endesa's capital as they fall due.
Consequently, the debt service projections on page 2 of this annex provide only
for interest on local loans.
November 1976



ESTIMATED DEBT SERVICE 1977-1981
(in millions of November 1976 pesos)
Total
1977          1978          1979          1980         1977-80          1981
AMORTIZATION
Existing Debt:
IBRD-244-CH                                                                  28.9           30.7          32.5          34.6         126.7            36.6
402-CH                                                                   4.1           4.2           4.6            4.7         17.6              5.0
479-CH                                                                  25.4          26.9          28.6           30.3        111.2             32.3
Total IBRD                                                                   58.4           61.8          65.7          69.6         255.5            73.9
IDB (Antuco)                                                                   -             -             -             -            -               63.4
Marubeni (Gas Turbines)                                                      40.5           42.0          43.7          45.3         171.5            47.3
GIE (Bocamina)                                                               37.1           39.8          42.6            -          119.5              -
Other Loans                                                                  26.4           26.1          20.3          19.3          92.1              7.2
Total Existing                                                            162.4         169.7          172.3         134.2        638.6            191.8
Proposed Debt:
IBRD Loan                                                                      -             -             -            20.7          20.7            41.4
Huasco 220 kV line                                                             -            48.0           48.0         48.0         144.0            48.0
Antuco Cost Overruns                                                          16.0          48.0           48.0         32.0         144.0             32.0
Other                                                                          1.6          22.4           22.4         27.7          74.1             27.7
Total Proposed                                                             17.6          118.4          118.4        128.4        382.8            149.1
Total Amortization                                                        180.0         288.1           290.7        262.6       1021.4            340.9
INTEREST CHARGED TO INCOME
Existing Debt:
IBRD-244-CH                                                                  18.2           16.4           14.5         12.6          61.7             10.4
402-CH                                                                   2.3           2.0             1.8          1.6           7.7             0.7
479-CH                                                                  60.6          59.1            57.4         55.7        232.8             53.8
Total IBRD                                                                   81.1           77.5           73.7         69.9         302.2             64.9
GIE (Bocamina)                                                                 7.7           5.1            2.3           -           15.1              -
IDB (Antuco)                                                                   -             -             -              -           -                95.1
Marubeni (Gas Turbines)                                                      42.3           39.7           35.0          31.2        148.2             27.3
other Foreign Loans                                                            9.7           7.7            5.7           4.0         27.1              1.7
Local Loans                                                                 308.8          217.6          203.2         195.2        924.8            184.0
Total Existing                                                            449.6          347.6          319.9        300.3        1417.4           373.0
Preposed Debt:
IBRD Loan                                                                      -             -             -            45.2          45.2             45.1
Huasco 220 kV line                                                             -             -             -             29.7         29.7             28.1
Antuco cost overruns                                                           -             -             -              -           -                 4.8
Other                                                                          -            11.4            9.1           6.7         27.2              4.0
Total Proposed                                                              -             11.4            9.1         81.6         102.1             82.o
Total Interest Charged to Income                                          449.6          359.0          329.0        381.9        1519.5             455.0
INTEREST CHARGED TO CONSTRUCTION
Existing and Proposed Loans:
IBRD Loan                                                                     11.6          27.0           39.3           -           77.9              -
IDB (Antuco)                                                                  47.0          64.9           83.3          93.3        288.5              -        a
Antuco Cost Overruns                                                          20.0          16.8            12.0          8.0         56.8              -
Huasco 220 kV line                                                             2.9          14.2           25.9           -           43.0              -
Other                                                                         12.5           -             -              -           12.5              -
Total Existing and Proposed                                                 94.0         122.9          160.5         101.3        478.7              -
Future Loans                                                                     -            18.2            53.6        181.4        253.2             386.2
Total Interest Charged to Construction                                      94.0         141.1          214.1         282.7        731.9             386.2
November 1976



APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT - CHILE
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (ENDESA)
FORECAST SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS 1977-81
(in millions of November 1976 pesos)
Total
1977          1978           1979            1980         1977-80        1981
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal cash generation:
Operating income                                        612.3        1,244.6         1,921.9         2,059.8        5,838.6      2,374.9
Depreciation                                            601.6           662.4          688.0            702.4       2,654.4        804.8
Income taxes paid                                         -               -          - 104.0         - 104.0        - 208.0      - 132.8
Other                                                     -              11.2           16.0             16.0          43.2         19.2
Gross internal cash generation                    1,213.9        1,918.2        2,521.9          2,674.2       8,328.2       3,066.1
Debt Service:
Interest charged to income                              449.6          359.0           329.0           381.9        1,519.5        455.0
Amortization                                            180.0           288.1          290.7            262.6       1,021.4        340.9
Total debt service                                  629.6          647.1           619.7           644.5       2,540.9         795.9
Net internal cash generation                        584.3        1,271.1        1,902.2          2,029.7       5,787.3       2,270.2
Borrowings:
Existing loans- principally IDB-Antuco                  592.0           161.6           30.4             11.2         795.2           6.4
Proposed loans - IBRD                                   185.4           203.6          104.6             66.4         560.0           -
- Huasco 220 kV line                     63.7          236.3           119.7            60.3          480.0          -
- Antuco cost overruns                  160.0             -              -                -           160.0          -
Future loans (foreign-exchange component of
Colbin, Neltime and other transmission projects)          -             405.0          786.0         1,649.0        2,840.0      2,903.0
Total borrowings                                  1,001.1        1,006.5         1,040.7         1,786.9        4,835.2      2,909.4
Contributions:
Government                                              928.8        1,012.1         1,126.4          1,573.7       4,641.0      2,946.4
Other                                                    67.2            14.4           14.4              4.0         100.0           4.0
Total contributions                                 996.0        1,026.5         1,140.8          1,577.7       17           2,S.
Total Sources                                     2,581.4        3,304.1         4,083.7          5L3 4  3     15,363.5      8,130.0
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Construction program (see page 2)                        2,501.4         3,224.1        4,003.7          5,314.3       15,043.5      8,050.0       x
Increase in working capital, other than
cash                                                      80.0            80.0           80.0             80.0         320.0          80.0       4
Total Applications                                2,581.4        3,304.1         4,083.7          5a94         15363.5       8,130.0
November 30, 1976



ANNEX 17
Page 2
Construction Program 1977-81
(in millions of November 1976 pesos)
1977           1978           1979          1980         1977-80            1981
T1te project:
Tarapaca:  transmission                2.3           83.6          13.3            1.6           100.8
distribution               1.9            2.3           -              -               4.2
Antofagasta:  distribution             2.3            2.5           -              -               4.8
Huasco:  generation                    1.9           14.9           -              -              16.8
transmission                49.4            4.8           -               -             54.2
distribution                 1.5            1.6           -               -              3.1
CIS:  north of Santiago                2.0            5.2           -              -               7.2
Colbun - Machicura area         -             15.2            -              -             15.2
Melipilla area                  2.1             2.4           9.3            -             13.8
San Javier area                18.2           26.9          13.0            11.4           69.5
Southern zone                  43.5          220.8         179.5           151.7          595.5
Overload correction            41.7           21.9          13.0             2.5           79.1
Misc. control equipt.          44.1           10.0            0.3            -             54.4
distribution                    6.1            5.8           -               -             11.9
Sixth and seventh zones:
distribution                    2.2            4.0           -               -              6.2
Isolated plants                       -             24.5           37.7            -             62.2
Load-dispatching system              21.8            37.0          37.9           67.2          163.9
Construction and maintenance
equipment:
Substations and sub-
transmission                15.6            -             -               -             15.6
Generation and primary
transmission                82.6           52.3           -               -            134.9
Distribution                  24.3           24.5           -               -             48.8
Studies of future works              57.6           112.7         128.4          133.2          431.9
Laboratory and office equipment       -               2.9           -              -               2.9
Spare parts                          45.5            32.0           -              -             77.5
Total project                   466.6          707.8         432.4           367.6         1974.4
CIS generating plants and related
transmission:
Antuco hydro                       1041.6          1004.8         655.7          492.9         3195.0              57.2
Colbun hydro                         28.5           231.4        1432.0         2411.3         4103.2            4518.9
Neltume hydro                         -               3.1          30.6          774.9          808.6            1929.7
Other generation                    435.3           271.5         202.9          124.4         1034.1             364.7
Other CIS:
220 kV transmission line to
Huasco                             92.7          344.0          174.3           87.9          698.9              17.1
Interconnection with
Argentina                           6.7            61.3         161.6          115.3          344.9              22.4
154 kV lines in fifth zone            6.0            29M9         121.7          171.9          329.5             214.3
Other transmission                   75.3            17.7         311.1          116.7          520.8             107.4
Distribution companies. including
isolated generation               113.9          139.9          139.1          186.7          579.6             257.6
Telecommunications, general
equipment, studies and
miscellaneous                     140.8           271.6         128.2          182.0          722.6             174.5
Total other                       1940.8         2375.2        3357.2         4664.0         12337.2           7663.8
Total construction program
excluding interest during
construction                     2407.4         3083.0         3789.6         5031.6        14311.6            7663.8
Interest during construction            94.0          141.1         214.1           282.7          731.9            386.2
Total construction program          2501.4         3224.1        4003.7         5314.3         15043.5           8050.0
November 30, 1976



ANNEX 18
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH POWER PROJECT - CHILE              Page 1
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (ENDESA)
Forecast Income Statements 1977-81
(in millions of November 1976 pesos)
1977      1978       1979       1980       1981
CENTRAL INTERCONNECTED SYSTEMS (CIS)
Energy sales - in GWh                          4436       4902       5308       5261       5873
Average price per kWh - in pesos               0.376      0.496      0.608      0.608      0.608
Revenues from sales                            1667.9    2431.4    3227.2    3198.7    3570.8
Other operating revenues                          1.6        9.6       12.8       11.2       12.8
Total operating revenues                      1669.5    2441.0    3240.0    3209.9    3583.6
Operating expenses:
Depreciation                                   523.2      572.8      592.0      600.0      697.6
Provision for maintenance                       78.4       86.4       89.6       89.6      104.0
Fuel and lubricants                            163.2      267.2      403.2      222.4      222.4
Energy purchases                                27.2       30.4       35.2       33.6       33.6
Personnel - related expenses                    96.0      102.4      105.6      110.4      121.6
Materials and services                          51.2       52.8       54.4       56.0       57.6
Administrative/general (central office)         80.0       81.6       84.8       88.0       89.6
Operating taxes and equivalent                 112.0      116.8      116.8      123.2      134.4
Total operating expenses                    1131.2    1310.4    1481.6    1323.2    1460.8
CIS operating income                           538.3    1130.6    1758.4    1886.7    2122.8
DISTRIBUTION COMPANIES
Energy sales - in GWh                           648        744        799        841        944
Average price per kWh - in pesos               1.013      1.136      1.254      1.256      1.262
Revenues from sales                             656.4      845.2    1001.9    1056.3    1191.3
other operating revenues                         20.8       33.6       40.0       41.6       48.0
Total operating revenues                       677.2      878.8    1041.9    1097.9    1239.3
Operating expenses:
Depreciation                                    78.4       89.6       96.0      102.4      107.2
Provision for maintenance                       11.2       12.8       14.4       16.0       16.0
Fuel and lubricants                            139.2      176.0      195.2      219.2      246.4
Energy purchases                               222.4      323.2      401.6      409.6      432.0
Personnel - related expenses                    88.0       96.0      104.0      108.8      113.6
Materials and services                          48.0       49.6       49.6       51.2       52.8
Administrative/general                           6.4        6.4        6.4        6.4        6.4
Operating taxes and equivalent                   9.6       11.2       11.2       11.2       12.8
Total operating expenses                     603.2      764.8      878.4      924.8     987.2
Distribution companies operating income          74.0      114.0      163.5      173.1      252.1
Total Endesa operating income                   612.3    1244.6    1921.9    2059.8    2374.9



ANNEX 18
Page 2
ASSUMPTIONS USED IN FORECASTS
Fuel cost                  Generation in GWh
VARIABLE COSTS             per kWh - US$            1976      1977      1978
CIS
Bocamina.' - coal            .0014                  -         -       875
Huascol/   - coal            .0022                 93        86       112
- fuel oil       .0032                  -        81       140
Isolated systems
Tarapaca - fuel oil          .0032                 41        41       41
- light diesel    .0042                  57        51        60
Antofagasta - fuel oil       .0032                 41        82       99
- light diesel .0043                  42        14         1
Taltal      - light diesel .0045                    7         7         8
Aysen       - light diesel .0044                    6         8        11
Copiapo     - light diesel .0043                   24         -       -
Magallanes  - light diesel .0043                    8        10       11
- gas           .0013                 37        39        81
PERSONNEL COSTS                       Average monthly cost       Number of
per employee (US$)        Employees
Groups                                                           (1/1/76)
1. Managers, Department chiefs
and equivalent                        1,020                     94
2.  Section Chiefs & equivalent                810                   184
3.  Engineers & architects                     570                   188
4.  Technicians & others                       520                   681
5.  Administration & services                  350                 1,850
6.  Skilled workers                            280                 1,050
7.  Unskilled workers                          210                 1,716
5,763
ENERGY SALES
In its financial forecasts, Endesa assumes annual growth in CIS energy sales
at 7.5% in the 1976-85 period. Commissioning of Chilectra's Ventanas plant,
expected in 1977, accounts for the decrease in Endesa's energy sales in 1977.
1/ Huasco and Bocamina require a 3% surcharge for lubrication over and above fuel
costs. The others require a 10% surcharge.



______________________________   ___________________                                                                                                                                           IBRD-11308R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I RD -1308
R   P 44   4 I               TroRPco, AnIofogot                   Interconnected  System                  444044
'44 '-     d  H                                                                         As USystms                                                                                                    o 444
I                                                          744.4            '-~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~                  '44 ~~~A ime r         c  c   Z
A-. ~   ~     ~     44444444
I             4.444                                                               ,*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
cN~~~~~~~~~~~~~444                          44          4.4~444
0   " , ~ ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                               "-
N              iv44t -At
44          444444         (444       4~                           4~'  .44   f0o4i#~0.444'-<'4457                                           ~w
/                                            44444..?                            44444~~~~~~44  <N                                        444  4444 CH 4L
4                                        V40404~~~~~~~~~   &~~~k                                44'~~~~~~                           4                      44s44acon   Elcr        J4S
4T4444.4  44                                               __                                                                                                 44'>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SXtiPO E    POJC
'4                                                   04444444              __       44                               (5                                                     44)
A4  A44444~
Io4o4444~~~~~~*    4444444 4>0  44 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~
144001  4  SOLIVFA  4              Ok       44444  4440         >             -                                           K.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
44                            4           4                     _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
A-oroo                                        .44444,~                                       4-
4)                                4414444k        U         -U   ~~~~~~~~6~j                                           4       /i
REPION ~  ~    ~    .        40444                  4'4
444404** ~~~~~~4                                444 44444-4---444.-M
44       4M~~~~    4444444444                                              '404(O4   44                            CHtLp~~~~~~~~~~~~A
W,- ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     4           ~ '         hO                                                                                                  4 . 1 4 4
444            4    0             U                                                                   mpresa Na&nal aerreARGENTINA ~
J                                  -A4    A-@ 
H--4444                                                                                                           ITHPW R   RJC
44e'44k-0                                                                                                                       ;44              40r4                         4                                  44A
I                                                                                                                                 .              44444044-A
4.444444.44                                                                                   44 4.                                            ~4                                 44444444   44 404400
E, N f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                           44 t4444444
1,1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 44                                      4                      4444 REGION444444
A RG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N, TN A ~ ~  ~               ~             ~           ~           -o1q~t  ,                                                                  0.oto~
-04*          44444444 ~          ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                                                                    EN04
444444~   4444
4440444                                                                   4044.4444                                                                 44444  4.4§4444444444444 44400444
444                                                     /                                  44-4 4,
444                                   -       444  /              44~~Kf44~~4tt  ;44;;;A;47                                                   4                     .4/4                                444      444    444~      054L
-A,~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                                                                                                                                                        0440



