CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1351 CH1
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Sixth Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A.
Dated February 15, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 15, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower) .


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "CORFO" means Corporaci6n de Fomento de la Producci6n,
an agency of the Guarantor, and such term includes any successor
thereto;
(b)  "Prior Loan Agreements" means the Loan Agreements between
the Bank, the Borrower and CORFO for Loans Nos. 479 CH, dated Decem-
ber 23, 1966, as amended on April 22, 1974, 402 CH, dated February 12,
1965, 244 CH, dated December 30, 1959 and 153 CH, dated November 1,
1956; and
(c) "Establecimientos de Distribuci6n" means the Borrower's
several departments engaged in the retail sale of electricity.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-five mil-
lion dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.


﻿Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy-hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿*                                   -5 -
ARTICLE III
The Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of the studies included in Part J of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ engineering consultants whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be aatisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)
shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facil-
ities and construction sites included in the Project and to ex-
amine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, propert,
and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures
to ensure that the execution and operation of the Project are carried
out with due regard to ecological and environmental factors.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain
its existence and shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times conduct its operations
under competent and experienced management, in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices and with the assistance of adequate, competent
and experienced staff.
(c) The Borrower shall at all times operate, maintain, renew
and repair its facilities, plants, equipment and machinery in accor-
dance with appropriate engineering and public utility practices.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 8-
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate ac-
counting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (ba'..ance sheets, statements of income and ex-
penses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year (A) certified copies of
its financial statements as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any debt, except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank or
stated in writing.


﻿S- 9 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to:
(A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
*   property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of bank-
ing transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt unless the Borrower's net re-
venues for the fiscal year, or a later twelve consecutive months'
period immediately preceding the date of such incurrence, which-
ever is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum
debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all of
the Borrower's outstanding debt, including the debt to be incurted.
For the purposes of this Section:


﻿- 10-
(i) the term "debt" means all debt except debt
incurred in the ordinary course of business
and maturing by its terms less than one year
after its incurrence, and interest-bearing
advances by CORFO;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the
date it is drawn down pursuant to the contract
or loan agreement providing for such debt, or,
in the case of a guarantee of debt, on the
date of execution and delivery of the contract
providing for such guarantee but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means gross operating
revenues, less all operating and administrative
expenses, including provision for taxes (except
income tax), if any, but before provision for
depreciation, debt service requirements and any
other financial charges;
(iv)  the term "debt service requirement" means the
aggregate amount of amortization of and interest
and other financial charges on debt; maximum
future debt service shall include interest due
on the 00RFO advances referred to in the preced-
ing subparagraph (i), outstanding as of the date
when additional debt is to be incurred; and


﻿*                          -11 -
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Guarantor debt payable in an-
other currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the rate of exchange at which
such other currency is obtainable by the Bor-
rower, at the time such valuation is made, for
the purpose of servicing such debt or, if such
other currency is not so obtainable, at the
rate of exchange that will be reasonably deter-
mined by the Bank.
Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
or desirable to effect such adjustments in its rates for the sale
of electricity as shall be necessary to provide revenues sufficient
to cover all its operating expenses (including taxes other than in-
come taxes) and adequate provision for maintenance and straight-line
depreciation, and yield a rate of return on the average value of its
total net fixed assets in operation of at least (i) 3% in 1977, (ii)
6% in 1978, and (iii) 9% per annum in each year thereafter.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) every quarter commencing with
the first quarter after the date of this Agreement, calculate the
rate of return on the average value of its total net fixed assets
in operation during said quarter, and send evidence of such cal-
culation to the Bank within one month thereafter; (ii) every year
commencing with the first year after the date of this Agreement,
calculate the rate of return on the average value of its total net
fixed assets in operation during such year, such calculation to be
verified by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (iii)
send to the Bank, not later than two months after the end of every


﻿- 12 -
such year said calculation and verification and such other perti-
nent information as the Bank may reasonably request.
For the purposes of this Section:
(1) the rate of return (A) in respect of any year will
be calculated by relating the net income from opera-
tions of the Borrower's interconnected system and
Establecimientos de Distribuci6n for that year to
the average value of the total net fixed assets in
operation of the Borrower's interconnected system
and Establecimientos de Distribuci6n during that
year; and (B) in respect of any quarter will be
calculated by relating the net income from opera-
tions of the Borrower's interconnected system and
Establecimientos de Distribuci6n for that quarter
to the average value of the total net fixed assets
in operation of the Borrower's interconnected sys-
tem and Establecimientos de DistribuciAn during
that quarter;
(2)  the term "net income from operations" means gross
operating revenues from the sale of electricity
and other related services of the Borrower's in-
terconnected system and Establecimientos de Dis-
tribuci6n less all operating, administrative and
overhead expenses, adequate straight-line depre-
ciation, provision for maintenance and taxes other
than income taxes, but without deduction of in-
terest or other charges on debt;


﻿-13 -
(3)  the term "total net fixed assets in operation" means
the gross value of such assets, revalued to reflect
replacement costs as of December 31, 1973 and every
fifth year thereafter, such value to be adjusted
monthly at the same rate as the adjustment of the
cost-of-living index in Chile, less accumulated de-
preciation and amortization, plus working capital;
and
(4)  the "average value" of the total net fixed assets
in operation will be determined (A) in respect of
any year, by adding the values of the total net
fixed assets in operation at the beginning of each
month during such year and the value of the total
net fixed assets in operation at the end of such
year, and dividing the total by thirteen; and (B)
in respect of any quarter, by adding the values
of the total net fixed assets in operation at the
beginning of each month during such quarter and
the value of the total net fixed assets in opera-
tion at the end of such quarter, and dividing the
total by four.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall not, without the prior agree-
ment of the Bank (i) sell or otherwise dispose of all or substan-
tially all of its property and assets unless it shall first pay or
make adequate provision satisfactory to the Bank for payment of all
of the Loan which shall then be outstanding; or (ii) sell or other-
wise dispose of all or substantially all of the property included


﻿- 14 -
in the Project or any plant included therein unless it shall first
pay or make adequate provision satisfactory to the Bank for payment
of a proportionate part of the Loan which shall then be outstanding
equal to the proportionate part of the Project so sold or disposed
of; provided, however, that the Borrower may, without agreement of
the Bank, sell or otherwise dispose of any property which shall
have become old, worn out, obsolete or unnecessary for use in its
operations.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Amendments to Prior Loan Agreements
Section 6.01. The provisions of Sections 5.04 and 5.05 of
this Agreement shall replace all the other provisions relating
to limitations on the incurring of debt by the Borrower and
adjustments in the Borrower's rates for the sale of electricity
contained in the Prior Loan Agreements.


﻿- 16-
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Guarantor has taken all necessary action, satis-
factory to the Bank, to enable the Borrower to achieve the rate
of return on its net fixed assets in operation as provided in
Section 5.05 of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The date June 15, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿17-
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Empresa Nacional de Electricidad, S.A.
(ENDESA)
Santa Rosa 76
Santiago, Chile
Cable address:
ENDESA
Santiago, Chile


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written, and CORFO, acting through its duly authorized rep-
resentative, has evidenced its agreement to the amendments of the
Prior Loan Agreements provided in Section 6.01 of this Agreement.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S.M.L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A.
By /s/ Alberto Casal
Authorized Representative
CORPORACION DE FOMENTO DE LA PRODUCCION
By Is/ Sergio Undurraga
Authorized Representative


﻿4
*                          -19-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment,                26,500,000        100% of foreign
materials and                              expenditures and
spare parts                                 100% of the ex-
factory cost of
locally produced
goods
(2) Studies:
(a) Equipment,            2,250,000        100% of foreign
materials and                         expenditures and
services                               100% of the ex-
factory cost of
locally produced
goods
(b) Consultants'            450,000        100% of foreign
services                              expenditures
(3) Unallocated                5,800,000
TOTAL      35,000,000


﻿- 20 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of a country other than
the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the terri-
tory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the impor-
tation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of
the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made (i) in respect of expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement; and (ii) after the Borrower has withdrawn
the equivalent of $12,000,000 from the Loan Account, unless the
Borrower has reached a rate of return of 3% on the average value
of its total net fixed assets in operation in 1977 as required by
Section 5.05 of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance


﻿-21 -
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Ca-
tegory, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then ap-
plicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in
the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such ex-
penditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the rehabilitation program for the Borrower's
system for the yeazs 1977-1980 and consists of the following Parts:
A.   Installation of power transmission and distribution equipment
for the rehabilitation of the Tarapacg system.
B.   Installation of power distribution equipment for the rehabili-
tation of the Antofagasta system.
C.   Installation of power generation, transmission and distribu-
tion equipment for the rehabilitation of the Huasco system.
D.   Installation of power transmission, subtransmission and dis-
tribution equipment for the rehabilitation of the central
interconnected system.
E.   Installation of distribution equipment for the rehabilitation
of the systems in the Sixth and Seventh Zones (Aysen and Punita
Arenas).
F.   Installation of power generation equipment to replace ineffi-
cient, existing units serving isolated rural areas at Taltal,
Porvenir and Coihaique.


﻿-23 -
G.   Installation of a load dispatching and telecommunications
system.
H.   Acquisition and utilization of transportation, construction,
testing, measuring, laboratory, shop and office equipment.
I.   Acquisition of spare parts for the Cipreses hydroelectric
plant, and other spare parts and equipment approved by the
Bank.
J.   Feasibility studies for the development of the proposed
Neltume, Ralco, Petrohu6, Choshuenco, Maule-Melado, Rio
Ibahez and Cahutillar hydroelectric projects and such
other generating facilities approved by the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.
S1


﻿-24-                                      0
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
Beginning March 1, 1981
through September 1, 1993                    1,295,000
On March 1, 1994                                   1,330,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-25 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.55%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          3.05%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          5.65%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                    7.70%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                          8.70%


﻿-26-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be
let under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines),
on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   The Borrower may procure, through negotiated contracts:
(i) spare parts and equipment for Part I of the
Project; and
(ii) measuring, testing and laboratory equipment;
provided that the cost of such goods shall not exceed in the aggre-
gate the equivalent of $2,900,000.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and


﻿-27 -
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Chile may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, tha informa-
tion required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such pref-
erence and the following methods and stages that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Chile
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu--
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Chile equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Chile.
(3)  Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿- 28 -
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first com-
pared among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other
import taxes including on goods to be imported and any sales or
similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid
of each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C. Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿-29 -
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, excepting those mentioned in
Part A.2 hereof:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower
shall inform the Bank,of the names of the bidders and the respective
amounts of the bids.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall furnish
to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿-30-
(d) The terms and conditions of the contrArt shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


